[R16896-413] Stephen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (onset clip — self-introduction; first name o | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: So we do have a board policy of allowing citizens comments if we choose after agenda items. So I have seen, some hands in the audience. So I'm going to allow for citizens of college at this point.
TEXT> Stephen Ward two. I'm going back a little bit towards where we were talking about this agreement for $0.10 per meal. We're not talking $1,000. Real math tells me that we have 1550 students, roughly from our presentation earlier. If I took that number and divided it by two, assuming that half the students are getting food service meals versus packing a lunch, that doesn't even take into effect the number of free or reduced that we may have. I'm just doing simple mathematics. That's $75 a day. There's 180 school days. That's $13,500. It's nowhere near a $1,000 issue. We're talking a minimum. Just doing simple mathematics of 10,000 and likely higher. So that's something to be very concerned about, specially when we're facing a deficit for mismanaging funds.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[R16896-415] Unidentified state representative | NH State Representative, public commenter (self-identified as a state  | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> I just want to continue with the same topic  and ask because maybe I didn't hear it. So it's $0.10 per student going to the state Department of Education for meals. What is it?
NEXT> Matt Angell: You stop this. So basically, For okay, when we put in our reimbursement request to the state, we would know how many meals that we served during the, during that

[R16896-487] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Earlene. Policy subcommittee you have.
TEXT> I apologize for the hour, but we have presented in your packet. I believe there were approximately 8 or 9 policies. The first one is the actual policy development, adoption and review policy. It's replacing an older policy,  and it's also indicating that policies and procedures are on each school's website in addition to the district website.  And, we have a schedule for policy review. It includes 30 minutes of public comment requirement. And, we have a question for the future. Not tonight. And then it also includes that the policy committee can make minor changes to the policy, if it's a punctuation or grammatical tense, and that we would inform the board of that afterward. There's also policy g cc all of the policies that begin with J are related to students. This policy is a student conduct on school busses. It refers to out of school student conduct, which includes bus stops, and that the administration will develop rules and regulations, and it will go in the handbooks and on the website.  And it references the RSS  that deals with suspension from or denial of bus privileges.  And there's also in your packet.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And this part does not have to be adopted or no I'm sorry. Yeah. First read was the school bus conduct rules and section B. All we did was correct

[R16896-488] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: which includes bus stops, and that the administration will develop rules and regulations, and it will go in the handbooks and on the website. And it references the RSS that deals with suspension from or denial of bus privileges. And there's also in your packet.
TEXT> And this part does not have to be adopted or no I'm sorry. Yeah. First read was the school bus conduct rules and section B. All we did was correct the numbering and it talked about parental responsibilities around transportation by parents. If a student is suspended  from a bus or if they miss the bus, it is added in verbal abuse as a disciplinary issue, as well as how to handle musical instruments, vandalism on school property, and the use of video cameras. J I see d d which would be a first read. It's new to Claremont. It's student discipline for out of school actions, and it includes anything that might result in damaged school property, violence at or near a bus stop, alcohol or drugs near a bus stop. Damaging private property of school staff or employees. And it includes cyberbullying and internet threats. The next one is, and I'd like to put these all in a packet as a first read or however you the board wishes to proceed. J I see I is weapons on school policy on property and it defines both the RSA and federal statutes. The policy Committee is recommending that the language be members of the public who violate this policy will be reported to local law enforcement, rather than the word.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: May we want stronger language for that. You had all of these in your packet J I students rights and responsibilities. This is a priority policy. It's very brief refers

[R16951-29] Rod Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-11-05
PREV> Rod Beaton: anything because there's just no one to cover. Some of the long term subs that are there right now seem a little bit questionable from what we've heard. And it just it seems like a really bad situation that's going on over there right now.
TEXT> And it doesn't seem like it's getting the attention that it should right now.  And one thing in particular, it seems that's very close to us is the band.  Tom Smith Knox was the music teacher for ten years, and as of last week, he's no longer there. He left to take a position over in Vermont. Can't blame them at all. He lost a, I think, 15,000 out of his salary or something when band and music were cut. So,  you know, he has to do what's right for him. But that left us in a situation now where these students who aren't athletes and are some of them are. But, you know, this, this was their thing. And now that was taken away from them. There's parents that are working really hard to figure out how to make that happen. Working with  working with other groups. But it's been really hard to get any traction figuring out how that can move forward. So I know Miss Kennedy is doing many, many things, and we very much appreciate that.  But that's something that we as parents would like to figure out. You've got parents that are willing to raise money to get grants, to get donations to make this happen. And we just need someone within the district that we can work with to make those things happen. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you sir.

[R16951-31] Rebecca | Claremont Middle School teacher; SREA building representative; Ward 1  | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you sir.
TEXT> Hi, my name. Is Rebecca,  a resident of Ward one. A citizen, a parent  of children in the district. I'm a teacher in the district. But here today I am. I have the hat that I have is my.  I'm a the Sara representative for the Claremont Middle School. And as rod started to to touch on a little bit and very concerned. And you should be too. We are your front lines and I know that students are the priority and we absolutely agree with that. But if your your teachers are not okay, you really should be worried.  We are so short staffed. Like a day like today, where I have classes straight through until from 730 until Levin 41, I think.  If I need to go to the bathroom, God forbid I have to interrupt a class on either side of me to have a teacher watch both classes for a little bit so that I can go. There's a safety issue that you should be aware of because of those things. We have no, no solid nurse. And consistency is the word that keeps coming to mind. Yes. Sometimes there is a place to go for  to send children when they need a break, when they're starting to get dysregulated. But it's not somebody, not always there.
NEXT> Rebecca: There are two places they technically could go, but we never quite sure of the status of that. And if they're dealing with one issue, then that's it. The room

[R16951-34] Michelle | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID — first name only; surname not captu | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Michelle. Be in Ward two. I just want to  stand here and reiterate what Amanda said beforehand and  Miss Mendoza, that I think we need to right now, be thinking about how we are going to retain our wonderful teachers for next year. I think we need to be right now. Well, budget season's coming up addressing the restructure. What is this going to look like next year? How are we going to support these families, these students and our amazing staff?  I also want to just talk about the safety issue at CMS. There is a real safety issue. There are kids. I'm not sure that there's much learning going on in that building. I think teachers are trying. They want to they are great staff and it's not any of their fault. They don't have consistent leadership. They don't have a sustainable environment right now. If they're almost 40% down their staff from last year. I also want to say that we have parents who are working extremely hard, who have formed a PTO. They want to support our teachers and staff. We can't get a meeting with the building principal because we're on our third principal of the school year.
NEXT> Michelle: We can't find out how much money we have from the alumni association, that maybe the teachers could access pencils, because there's nobody to sign the process or receive the

[R16951-35] Michelle | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID — first name only; surname not captu | 2025-11-05
PREV> Michelle: also want to say that we have parents who are working extremely hard, who have formed a PTO. They want to support our teachers and staff. We can't get a meeting with the building principal because we're on our third principal of the school year.
TEXT> We can't find out how much money we have from the alumni association, that maybe the teachers could access pencils, because there's nobody to sign the process or receive the funds from the alumni association. We have parents who are reaching out. When? Eighth grade parent night. Are we going to have an eighth grade trip? We're ready to start fundraising. We're ready to start figuring out if we can access funds. We're not told there's no consistency. There is no consistent leadership. We have no meeting, no answers for us. We have parents. We have fingerprinted adults ready to volunteer for a dance. I think we will probably get the police covered funding wise. Probably could access it through alumni. We've been asking questions. How many staff were required to be in the building? No answers, no leadership, no consistency. We can't move forward. Teachers can't move forward. Students can't learn. If we don't address what's happening in that building right now. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Cassandra Cassandra.

[R16951-37] Cassandra Edwards | Disnard School teacher; SREA building representative; Ward 3 (self-ID) | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Cassandra Cassandra.
TEXT> Edwards. Ward three. But today I am the Shah, a building rep for desert.  Later tonight, Miss Kennedy is going to talk about class sizes at bluff. And now that bluff has joined as nada maple. And I'm going to talk about that from a teacher perspective. We are not in our building in crisis like the middle school. We were fortunate enough not to lose our administrators, but I will say my workload has doubled since last year. That means double the paperwork, double the phone calls home. I spend an hour after school every day trying to contact parents to tell them what's going right and what's going wrong. Our administrators are coming into our room to help with behavior with other kids in tow, because there's only two of them, and we have kids that are not used to being in classes this big. They don't know how to regulate. When there's that many bodies in a room, they don't know how to tune out distractions. And so behaviors are ramping up because they just they don't know how to handle it. And we don't have the support as much as our administrators are always moving. You never see them sitting anywhere unless there's nobody in the building, because they are always trying to support teachers the best they can.
NEXT> Cassandra Edwards: But to mimic what miss said, we're not okay. We're all doing the best we can. We're all here because we are committed to doing everything we can for the

[R16951-57] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: hope families are signing up for times. All the staff are sending out there. They're available times. And getting ready for that. So get a chance to meet with your your teachers. Get a chance to find out how your student is doing in school.
TEXT> We'll make sure if you need translators, we have translators available as well.  And so just a reminder, there is no school on the 10th next Monday for the parent conference time.  And then to follow on to that, in honor of veterans who served in our military forces, we salute you. First of all, we thank you for your past service and recognize your sacrifices to us in our country. There is, because it's a Veterans Day. There is no school on Tuesday, September. Excuse me. November 11th. So just a reminder for that.  There's a few things coming up still. We also want to just recognize all the Disney art elementaries, folks who came to our hallow esta trunk or treat in conjunction with the Claremont Parks and Rec. There are many community partners. We really appreciate your work,  Miss Lewis. And a lot of staff members from Disney were there representing the school.  So we appreciate your support on that and families, and we hope everybody had a great time for that.  So I just want to give an update to we said we're talking about safety. So CMS student who was hit by a car on Friday.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That student is recovering. It is okay. But we thank all the CMS administrators, Officer Simons and everyone for the response for that. We appreciate the work on this. It

[R16951-59] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: from Massachusetts it would be ideal to have 18 students in kindergarten. I understand it's maybe not what we recommend or we've seen in our district here. But that's a decent number there. So in first grade, there's 55 students for an average of 18.3.
TEXT> So there's three classes of 18 or so students.  And so for second grade, there's 46 students. The class size average is 15. And there's three classes of 15  was one of 16. So  grades three there's 72 students. So the average class size is 24.  Grade four there's 28 students  and they're in one class of 28 at Maple and then 20, excuse me, in fifth grade, there's 48 students and there's two classes of 24. Very well within the industry standard. I again recognize that it's not something that folks are used to,  outside of perhaps around this area. That's a very real number. I've had schools where I've been in personally and worked in there where it's, you know, 32 students is not uncommon. I've seen other schools in California that have 42 students. Not ideal, and I recognize that. But I understand also, you know, it's not something that we're used to, but it is very industry standard there. And it's something that we will work on with folks and professional development understanding. I'll switch over to Disney for a moment. So in kindergarten for Disney, there's 29 students. So there's two classes of about 14.5 students a little bit less.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But there's a maternity leave. And so it was about 9.6 students. And I will default to Miss Louis. If there's any updates you want to share about the numbers

[R16951-60] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: industry standard there. And it's something that we will work on with folks and professional development understanding. I'll switch over to Disney for a moment. So in kindergarten for Disney, there's 29 students. So there's two classes of about 14.5 students a little bit less.
TEXT> But there's a maternity leave.  And so it was about 9.6 students. And I will default to Miss Louis. If there's any updates you want to share about the numbers for free to comment on any of these numbers.  Grade one, there's 40 students with the average class size is 13.3. Again, about 13 students or so in each classroom. Grade two there's 24. There's 48 students. Sorry. With 24. Two classes of 24. Grade four is 65, which the average class size is 21.6. I understand it's not quite as easy as that, but there's three classes of fourth graders at Nerd. There's 67 fifth graders, and they're at 22.3  broken up into three classes. So it's a little bit of an average. And so there's 290 students K to five at Disney Art. And it's an average class average size of 18.1. And there's 303 students at Maple. And the class average size is 20.2. Again pretty industry standard.  I know it's something that we're not used to, but we will work on that as well for professional development for staff. Go ahead.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Good evening. As you know things change quickly. So I think we assembled these numbers for Miss Kennedy October 16th. Okay. Right. And does not have 290 students at that

[R16951-61] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: average size of 18.1. And there's 303 students at Maple. And the class average size is 20.2. Again pretty industry standard. I know it's something that we're not used to, but we will work on that as well for professional development for staff. Go ahead.
TEXT> Good evening. As you know things change quickly. So I think we assembled these numbers for Miss Kennedy October 16th. Okay. Right.  And does not have 290 students at that point. We are up to 309. Okay. In power school right now, I think we have three new first graders just this week,  as well. So our numbers in first grade certainly have come up a little bit. Kindergarten is a very low year for us.  We have had a couple, I believe a couple new hinders as well. Fortunate that it was a low year for us. We had a teacher go out on a maternity leave and the other two teachers, we simply split that teachers class, and the other two teachers welcomed those kiddos right into their classrooms. So,  not the norm by any stretch of the imagination, but worked out very well for us this year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So we had 12 families move into the community. We had a bunch of new kids.

[R16951-62] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Melissa Lewis: a maternity leave and the other two teachers, we simply split that teachers class, and the other two teachers welcomed those kiddos right into their classrooms. So, not the norm by any stretch of the imagination, but worked out very well for us this year.
TEXT> So we had 12 families move into the community. We had a bunch of new kids.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We have had new students. Some have transferred from Maple, for example, and some have come in. And I was on the phone today with another one moving in a

[R16951-63] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we had 12 families move into the community. We had a bunch of new kids.
TEXT> We have had new students. Some have transferred from Maple, for example, and some have come in. And I was on the phone today with  another one moving in a couple of weeks from Vermont. So absolutely, we have students moving in 32. There. There's some trains to say I will be back. And we're trying to go through all of the numbers. Per grade and per school and things like that too.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16951-69] Unidentified | Brief crosstalk, backchannel and overlapping fragments from multiple v | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Sure. Okay.
TEXT> Maple is also getting to know students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16951-71] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Okay.  And so again, just following up with that. So I personally have done a lot of turnaround work and so receivership work and things. So these numbers are very again  well recognizing they're not ideal in terms of past practice here. They're very much within. Again I go back to that industry standard and for numbers. And so we will work to support staff on how to manage that. And I understand for students I  get that part. So just speaking and I'll come back to the middle school specifically in a minute. But we were looking at behavioral supports. Mr. Angel and I was discussing what does that look like  for personnel wise. I know there were some folks who were had been recommended for some positions.  And we met with principals this morning again to discuss a lot of things, one of which was,  you know, data, which was lovely. And to get into starting about the Sass scores, things like that, and then also about personnel,  some needs where they are some behavioral wonderings across the district of support. So,  specifically to the middle school, we do have two behavioral program systems. So we have the Arc, the Academic Resource Center with Mr. McDonald.  And then we also have Victoria Ratner, who was hired just this week and to support the Restorative School Day program at CMS.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So we do have some options there for behavioral support within the program. So coming back to and I'll skip around for just a moment. The HR part of it,

[R16951-120] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: A next meeting or. We don't know.
TEXT> Hopefully it should be the next meeting. Yes. It has to be shared. We need to share it within the staff of schools first before it shares its shared publicly. So,  just a quick family and community engagement piece.  I met with Courtney Porter, who was our director of wellness, and looking at the school social work team. They're partnering with community agencies to provide resources we're recognizing with the cuts and Snap benefits. That it's a hardship for many folks. So we're working to support some students and families with the Claremont Soup Kitchen. We're collaborating on Thanksgiving food boxes. We're looking at the Elks, so supporting for the food markets.  We are offering snacks during the day. We're offering some take home food items that folks that need that. We're also getting 65 food backs as boxes during the holiday break. Trinity church, we thank you, has been a long time supporter of this Claremont School District. We're providing weekend food bags during the year.  They are dropping off almost 80 bags of food on Thursdays to our schools to help our families who are experiencing food insecurity.  Our community continues to step up, and we appreciate all their efforts in so many different ways over the summer.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Dartmouth Health donated $3,000 for school snacks. Walmart has donated 1500 boxes of crayons. Individuals have donated snacks and clothing, school supplies, hygiene. And that goes to the what's called

[R16951-121] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the year. They are dropping off almost 80 bags of food on Thursdays to our schools to help our families who are experiencing food insecurity. Our community continues to step up, and we appreciate all their efforts in so many different ways over the summer.
TEXT> Dartmouth Health donated $3,000 for school snacks.  Walmart has donated 1500 boxes of crayons. Individuals have donated snacks and clothing, school supplies, hygiene. And that goes to the what's called Courtney's Closet. So we have those available for students and families that need that.  During the month of November, Courtney's closets holding open hours on three separate Saturdays. We'll be sharing that out to allow students and families to shop for our 30 rocks of clothing  for folks that need that Pierce Jewelers of webinar, and is hosting a Ladies Night on November 13th with the proceeds that'll be going to help our support our Courtney's Closet. They are a longtime supporter of this, and they'll be donating again.  So McKinney Vento reimbursement updates. We're going to share about that. So,  we'll be talking about a little bit about transportation. And so federally, we're required to make sure it's an event where a student started. We try and ideally keep a student if they started in one school, keep them in that school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It doesn't always geographically work. It doesn't always work transportation wise. I will say, having come from southern New England, it's a little bit more accessible to transportation options. There's

[R16951-126] Courtney Porter | Director of Wellness; School Social Worker and McKinney-Vento liaison, | 2025-11-05
PREV> Courtney Porter: looking at what is our attendance look like? The loss of our truancy officer is just greatly impacting our students ability to access their education. Scott Maple was an amazing asset to us this past year, and so right now school social workers are out.
TEXT> We're doing the boots on the ground work. I did two home visits today for students that are just really struggling to get to school.  And the biggest thing that we need to remember is that we need to remove those barriers to access education. And without looking at all the different tiers of what's happening outside of a child's life, we can't help figure out what's happening during their school day. And, I'm just really appreciative that I still have a job and appreciative of everyone that's here.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: You are appreciated.

[R16951-139] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Courtney Porter: Yes and no. And so yeah, so it's billing through the insurance company for the services that are provided. So it's a wellness coach per se.
TEXT> Mental health services for tier one students. Tier one students are yes just to the community. Tier one students are regular education.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Everybody in our school is a tier one student. Yes. So it's tier one and tier two student. Yes. And so the $5,000 pays the retainer for we our hope.

[R16951-140] Courtney Porter | Director of Wellness; School Social Worker and McKinney-Vento liaison, | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mental health services for tier one students. Tier one students are yes just to the community. Tier one students are regular education.
TEXT> Everybody in our school is a tier one student. Yes. So it's tier one and tier two student. Yes. And so the $5,000 pays the retainer for we our hope. And then we will work with them and then they will build a students families insurance for the services. And so what they're looking to do is put a coach in the Claremont Middle School that would have a caseload of 12 students. So they'll be in Claremont Middle School six hours a day, five days a week.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay, so this is a service plus, but a budget neutral. Yes. Grant.

[R16951-144] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> And so they. The wellness coach would be there. And so foreshadowing to families of the middle school, it's accessible. We already actually have a wait list that the staff have generated on their, their kid talk meetings and things. And  so it would be able to access. So somebody who's not using they can't double dip and things. So they're not doing cart rail, they're not doing West Central, they're not doing any other counseling system. And so this is something where it's not maybe a higher crisis need, but it's a prevention piece. They do have, you know, suicide identification things, the tools that could happen.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So it's a mental health support service that doesn't plant external assistance or assistance that is already in place. It primarily is for students that don't have access to other

[R16951-145] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: cart rail, they're not doing West Central, they're not doing any other counseling system. And so this is something where it's not maybe a higher crisis need, but it's a prevention piece. They do have, you know, suicide identification things, the tools that could happen.
TEXT> So it's a mental health support service that doesn't plant external assistance or assistance that is already in place. It primarily is for students that don't have access to other students other services. Yep. Okay. Perfect.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well said.

[R16951-150] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. So a little help on the way.
TEXT> A little help on the way for the middle school. Help on the way. Yes. And it's been a much needed, I can say personally. They were in my school for the last couple of years in Vermont, and it's a great asset. So they provide the coach  obviously fingerprinted. It would meet all requirements for that. The person would be there. And so they sit alongside with our staff. They're not necessarily on our staff, but they become de facto our staff because they work together and they would collaborate with the classroom teachers. They would collaborate with our counselor in case there was any need. So, obviously something that the school counselor might hear, something that comes up. And so the school nurse might be in conjunction things to, but it's another avenue for families to have access to the support for mental health. And it's a great part. So they typically work on a 20 minutes a day,  five days a week for 60 or 90 days or so. And then the student might be exited and then another student has the opportunity. So we'll have a wait list for students to come in after that so they can see more students. It's usually not as crisis level as, you know, a bigger mental health needs. It could. Right? Absolutely. Just managing day to day stress. It's a great resource and it helps folks.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And again, some of the students who are just sort of needing support but are not at a crisis level of another agency that we. Only have. Absolutely.

[R16951-152] Courtney Porter | Director of Wellness; School Social Worker and McKinney-Vento liaison, | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: And again, some of the students who are just sort of needing support but are not at a crisis level of another agency that we. Only have. Absolutely.
TEXT> This in collaboration with the work that we're doing through the Car real Grant, which is again, so so the cartwheel program that we're doing that's free to students, that's a a three year grant that I had wrote last year. So all of the mental health Support center bring it into the district are all grant funded. None of this is is budget line stuff. I've been working my tail off to bring in great stuff at a at a grant level, not a budget level.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So and then one last part for the department, the Dartmouth Health part, the C part for their donation that comes from the nursing supplies. And so that would be,

[R16951-155] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I think a very obvious question. These are certified clinical mental health providers.
TEXT> The for the wellness coach. It is not. It is actually a wellness coach within their structure. And that's the difference. And so they are providing  just wellness support. But it's not a clinical it's not meant to be counseling. It's meant to be life coaching and some other supports for students who maybe just not understanding support. Absolutely right.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: The court. For the for those who are engaging in the cartwheel, those are licensed clinical mental health counselors. And through that program what we do is so as an

[R16951-158] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: This is tier one. It's not.
TEXT> Just getting kids through the day or whatever the issues are, which will provide support for the middle school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And it's going to it's going to provide support for the students of families and the teachers.

[R16951-266] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: goals. So we'll have that coming up soon. Mr. Angel has reviewed some needs for the updated walk in refrigerators. We've discussed that briefly before, but just to remind everybody, we do need to update the middle school and the Desert School's walk in refrigerators.
TEXT> So we are going to invite multiple vendors to come in and provide proposals and to bring those up to code. So that would be happening soon.  We're going to get into some information about the tuition rates. We'll come back to that in a moment with Mr. Angel.  And we just discussed that in nonpublic, and we'll discuss about the tuition rate for  Senate for students coming into SC six for next year, in Claremont next year. And then we're also right now just we're working on the fiscal year 27 budget. It is budget season has always been budget season. And so getting into planning for our needs for next year, and I appreciate the public's comments about personnel. And we'll be looking at all the options with all the principals. They've been asked to bring some budget requests before us  and we'll be giving them a deadline, Mr. Angel, very soon too. So,  just quickly fundraising. We are reviewing all the donations. We again, thank everybody for their support. We want to acknowledge and, you know, all the donors. And so we're just working to make sure we've got all the recognitions coming in soon.  So quickly for HR, I did mostly share most of that again for the position for the grant manager.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So if anybody's interested in that technology and I apologize for the delay. So Mr. Small and I believe Miss Swenson may be coming in and we're just going to

[R16951-271] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So can you address that?
TEXT> Sure. So administratively we're sitting down and we're working on our professional development plan and be sharing that out very soon. So we have engaged with Tara Gear for some work for the  due process processes and things. We've worked on some special education and student services reports, sharing around that first for personnel. So we have a lot of administrative training for that. We have one coming up on Monday for the administrators, for the local education agency, the LA training. And then additionally from there, it's going out into the members of the Sri teachers as well.  Some professional development coming in to how to support in the student services realm. And thank you for asking that and how to we make sure that we're legally compliant for things and coming into special ed student services  and then also making sure under that umbrella is also English, student learners as well. So how do we provide some plans? So we are just drafting some things our next professional development days in January, and we're hoping to come to the next meeting with an actual official. This is what's happening in which days and so many of professional development days we've had to exchange. There will be some staff meeting time, professional development wise, and that'll be up to building principles to discuss what's happening within each building on those days that we're having staff meetings in that PD plan.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But then we're also looking at how to make sure the instruction is keeping going. For sure. And, across the evaluation tool system as well. And we're not ready to

[R16951-276] Jeff Small | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC); prese | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So I was tasked. Just. To get a list of all our  software. That we use. Across for district. Some are technology tools, related subscriptions. And others. Are,  our core curriculum.  In this, I just want to reiterate, this is, like, a very fluid list, and it's like volume 1.0.  We do want I've worked or talked with.  There's a lot of things we want to really clean up to make it simplified  and then really put it out to the web. So it's very clear to everybody what we use for tier one. Tier two.  But first, before I say that, I wanted to say thank you to the building principals and directors. We've met a couple of times over the last couple of weeks. Christine Swenson is our digital learning specialist.  And she is a software police.  So I kid you not. She sends me pieces every week. Of what? Maybe staff may be using that. We don't have a data privacy agreement that we shouldn't be using.  So thank you for that. And putting this, putting the sheet together. So,  it's been a little bit of a challenge because we don't have a curriculum director, and I,  some of the software, I can see it, I see it, I get a DPA and I can't do it to them.
NEXT> Jeff Small: Right? So, I'm trying to learn it as well. So it was a great activity to do. But there are some pieces. There's probably some more software in different departments

[R16951-295] Jeff Small | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC); prese | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: On just because it's a different facility.
TEXT> Not only a different facility, but maybe fewer students. Or maybe there's more students. So everything, most of all the software, it's all based on student counts. And again, I'm still trying to enter mine the, the grant pieces and what was and wasn't so  in what's going to be in the budget. So that probably has a little bit I think I'm putting more things in my lines to just to make it clear. And it's one picture.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So again, for the educator piece, it's not trying to take away tools that are there, but we want to make sure we're paying in fiscally prudent for what we

[R16951-307] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (serving as in-person clerk this | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Is one.
TEXT> Mosaic is the point of sale system for school lunch.  And so kids come up to a register that's mosaic. And so it's being operated by the adults.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so the classification of who use not not the intended use it is I mean right.

[R16951-309] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: So so the classification of who use not not the intended use it is I mean right.
TEXT> Students shouldn't be accessing that part. That's fair.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I mean.

[R16951-313] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Be I mean. There there are.
TEXT> Every I mean I understand the ones that have like pre-K through adult, I understand that. But then there are some categories that are just list adult. Is that for adult students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Or for.

[R16951-318] Jeff Small | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC); prese | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, I know.
TEXT> You can. So the I think what the adults were is that again, it's not software that students use.
NEXT> Unidentified: Its staff.

[R16951-321] Unidentified | Brief crosstalk, backchannel and overlapping fragments from multiple v | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Say may.
TEXT> Staff. And I don't use  not for adult students. Not not right.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Not adult education.

[R16951-324] Jeff Small | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC); prese | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. That's what. Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. So basically power. School is. Used by the adults to put the grades in. And kids do access it to see grades adults at home access it to see. So we can kids are not using power school to learn.
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[R16951-336] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So the the other bullet about the due process. And so what I've done is I brought in the administrators in for some training, and we have some more training about that next week. And then doing some more with the staff as well for due process. So that  involves anything. So I liken it to, you know, if you bring a student or a, an adult goes into court for some reason or do processes when you have a chance to say, what's your side of the situation that's happened, you're being accused of X. And so in within due process, everybody has, you know, both sides of the story. Right? So everybody has a chance to say so the accused and then the one that's bring it forward to has a chance to say like I'm saying this happened. And so with regards to student discipline, and so we need to make sure that everybody's understanding what's going on for student discipline. Everybody has the right to a hearing. You come in. And so it's similar. Like I said you bring a charge the forward. You were violating this code of conduct from our handbook or something. And so it's it was alleged on, you know, this day and this time you said this or you did this or whatever it is. And it's basically what say you.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so the students would have a chance to come in and say they're part of it. And so we want to make sure that all of the administrators, all

[R16951-337] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the forward. You were violating this code of conduct from our handbook or something. And so it's it was alleged on, you know, this day and this time you said this or you did this or whatever it is. And it's basically what say you.
TEXT> And so the students would have a chance to come in and say they're part of it. And so we want to make sure that all of the administrators, all of the personnel involved, understands the legal ramifications of that and that we're not erroneously disciplining any students and things. So they all have a chance to say, I was a little bit different from a five and six year old part of it, you know, a claim of something that they may have done versus a 17 or 18 year old, but in there that everybody has a chance in that due process piece. So we've asked for some assistance from that. Luke Webster and who's also from and is doing some training, Tara Gear is doing some training on that. And so we're doing that across administrators and then making sure once they're set, then any personnel that's involved with anything in student discipline and things understand what's happening to. So, assistant principals, everything else,  you know, our, you know, our restorative school work and things too. So everybody just has a clear understanding of what's due process and what it means in the schools.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R16951-344] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: With that organization set up with the.
TEXT> School, you know, the parent information center. Absolutely. And we welcome advocates. I think, you know, families coming in for anything. I mean, I liken it to if you go in, you know, for cancer care and things like that, you want to bring somebody who's neutral, somebody who can hear it. Because sometimes, especially when it's your child for an IEP and things like that. There's a lot being said that we do speak in educators. We fully admit we have a lot of teacher jargon, we have a lot of education and things.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We put that on the agenda.

[R16951-348] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Have that solidified kind of the purpose of that is.
TEXT> For sure. And so I want people because I know I've heard some people say like, oh my gosh, this is scary. And it's meant to be a neutral party that, you know, we get reminded like, oh, hey, don't use education jargon. And vice versa. The parents feel comfortable with somebody that can help advocate for what their needs are and things to. So to the parents piece the student services particularly we absolutely understand and we, you know, look forward to meeting and discussing options. Absolutely. It's very much on its way. Or I'm just trying to go back, make sure I miss anything. We've got a lot on the agenda and I apologize. I know I do speak quickly.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There's a lot to follow up. We still have a we do.

[R16951-387] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: it's the budget that's already been voted on with a realistic expectation of the revenues. Yes. And we've talked about this before. An example of an inflated revenue in the past was just one item, which was, a revenue from tuition of students coming in.
TEXT> And in the past, the amount that this district received in, revenue from students coming in was around 250,000  per 200, 250,000 per year. Last year, the amount that was stated on the miss 2524 was set at 780,000, which was artificially inflated by  500,000. So there was $500,000 less raised in taxes to cover the budget that had been passed. And that's one reason we're short on the money, because that report was artificially inflated. Is that a fair representation?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And this is nothing to do with it. Is not buying down the deficit.

[R16951-473] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> I went back to the question I wanted to get to before we have our political leaders here. I understand the difference between federal government, state, county, city. I know this is very complicated,  but it should be getting out to the public to. So about four iterations ago when we started doing this, we the board members now review the expenditures. And  this is a voucher supplement account summary. And we have to go down and we have to sign off on it to approve it about 44.  Ago I was in your office and I was what does this mean? What is this? What does this mean? And one that caught my eye was district wide transportation homeless student. So I questioned that. And we're not going to get into any  personalities, people or anything else. It's just what's going on here at that time.  The amount. I believe you can correct me with $6,500. And that was for a month.  And I believe you told me it was for one student.
NEXT> Matt Angell: It is.

[R16951-481] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-11-05
PREV> Matt Angell: Let me let me be very specific. It's about $500 a day.
TEXT> $500 a day for transportation for one student. I got a bargain for you. You can have my house for $8,000 a month.  Now, I, I'd like you to just briefly say this is a federal law. We have to comply with it.
NEXT> Matt Angell: And it is a. Look. It is a federal law. So McKinney Vento is a federal law that requires us to transport homeless students from the shelter that they're in

[R16951-482] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (serving as in-person clerk this | 2025-11-05
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: $500 a day for transportation for one student. I got a bargain for you. You can have my house for $8,000 a month. Now, I, I'd like you to just briefly say this is a federal law. We have to comply with it.
TEXT> And it is a. Look. It is a federal law. So McKinney Vento is a  federal law that requires us to transport homeless students from the shelter that they're in to the school of record.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It's depending on where the location of the shelter is and where the students go to school. It can be shared. So even though we might be paying out, we

[R16951-483] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Matt Angell: And it is a. Look. It is a federal law. So McKinney Vento is a federal law that requires us to transport homeless students from the shelter that they're in to the school of record.
TEXT> It's depending on where the location of the shelter is and where the students go to school. It can be shared. So even though we might be paying out, we also are getting revenue in, if you want to call it that, return money back in from that.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: We're getting return back.

[R16951-487] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (serving as in-person clerk this | 2025-11-05
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Less than 80.
TEXT> 500 student. We're trying to do a 5050 split okay. But you won't see that we can't under New Hampshire law we can't net the number. So you're going to see the gross expenditure.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I understand, I just want everyone else to know too. And ironically, it's called door to door driving services. If you're homeless, there's only one door. Right. So. All right.

[R16951-537] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (serving as in-person clerk this | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So it's going to discuss it so we can do it.
TEXT> I did a quick analysis to calculate what what we're going to charge for tuitions for, for students that are going to come in from out of the district. And I gave the for the public's benefit. I gave the school board a low on a high amount and we recommended 17,000, a year for or per student for the high school. And so I'm looking for approval of the 17,000.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Go ahead.

[R16951-543] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: from where the student is coming. So the 17,000 is just for regular education expenses. So the, Claremont School District is not assume the financial burden of special education costs for that for any student that comes from out of district. Okay, okay. Any other.
TEXT> Or any student that wants to come in. That's not in the district would need to pay $17,000 per year. That's correct. To be in our high school.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's correct.

[R16951-545] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: That's correct.
TEXT> Any other discussion? All in favor of, Candy Crawford's motion? Setting the tuition rate at $17,000 per student for Stevens High School. Say I,  I seeing none oppose motion passes. Miss Kennedy, is there any reason for Mr. Small to continue to stay if he doesn't need to?
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks.

[R16951-581] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: I think that's a good idea at the next agenda.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. All right. Let's see. What else are we? Okay? Update on director of student service search.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So we have had some interviews. Unfortunately, neither candidate that were presented was brought forth to me. And so we were back to looking at some, other options. And we

[R16951-605] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there any.
TEXT> Full disclosure to. We're looking at options we've been asked to look at. What does it look like if we have three schools next year, if it looks like for schools and things too. So we're just exploring all different options. We want to make sure it's obviously a student friendly as possible, fiscally as possible. And just to, you know, review everything that we can to bring informed, you know, voters, everything that we can. The Superintendents Council will be meeting to discuss some things to and we'll have a chance for folks to weigh in and thoughts and ideas I've already seen or somebody talked about a little bit about what's up Claremont. So there's already discussions apparently out there about those two. And for for sure. You know, we want other folks to be able to weigh in and some ideas and things to. So do you want to nodded the head.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If there's no there's anyone that does not consent. Say now, seeing that there's no objection, please move forward. Thank you. Thank you. Moving on to the next item on

[R16951-663] Don Lavalette | Ward 2 resident; applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat  | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I defer your correct. I did not know. It's not aware.
TEXT> Thank you. Furthermore, when you say things like his character and and that disparaging  him. No, wait a minute. My turn. Speak true. It's disparaging to us. You had a process. You went through the process. That's fine if you're deadlocked. But if you go back and hire somebody who quit. No way. That's again Claremont. You made you made decisions that upended kids lives quicker than this process and didn't flinch. So either decide to fill it with Mr. Tyson me, or don't fill it. But and by the way, overwhelmingly I couldn't run. I was employed here, so. And I do have a pass. Mr. Sprague as past president of Sharia.  So take that for what it's worth. But it's an insult. And you are an appointee, by the way.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[R16951-666] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-ID; ASR 'Matt Beam') | 2025-11-05
PREV> Don Lavalette: Thank you.
TEXT> Matt Beam, Ward one. So I had come here to speak for support. For Mr. Lovett first. First, first thing I want to. Say, though, is that I respect and like Mr. Sprague a lot. I voted for him repeatedly. He was my assistant principal, but he resigned like, to like, if I resign from my job  or something that I post and then do I just get to write a letter and say, oh, I get to come back and have this job back? Now I just don't think that that's fair. And I also don't think it's fair is that we had a process and we have two people. We have Mr. Lava and we have Mr. Tyson who came out of that process and to just say, oh, we're just going to open things back up again. That is very unfair to both people. So I just needed to get  that out there. Now, I would like to read my prepared statements on why I support Mr.. To be appointed to the school board.  He for me, this choice is clear. One candidate is a former educational professional, lived in Claremont, worked in the schools, knows the staff and the students and the challenges they face.
NEXT> Matt Bean: Has an idea of what's going on right now. And we have a different candidate who worked for an a work for a group that likes to direct families from

[R16951-698] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So are you speaking in favor of or.
TEXT> I'm speaking in support of Mr. Lava as a public educator committed to being an advocate for students and public schools, which is the role of people on this board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak for the motion? My opposition would be because, quite frankly, I see a school board as many other boards.

[R16951-840] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: First read and adoption. Right. Seconded by Candy Crawford. All in favor, say aye. Seeing none opposed. Motion passes.
TEXT> We have five policies that we are recommending be withdrawn. Apologize for the misspelling. B.G. board policy was incorporated into a policy recently passed JED high school attendance JEDA elementary and middle school attendance and JHB which deals with truancy, were all in co-operated into one policy that was passed and adopted at an earlier meeting and JIA which is student due process rights, was also incorporated into an updated policy. So these are  not not needed anymore and will be kept as part of our record of withdrawn policies. So I move I'll make the motion that we withdraw bg JEDJEDAJIA and j. H b.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I'll second that motion.

[R16951-904] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-11-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Good.
TEXT> These are basically other business slash future agenda because we will not be able to do too much. I went to the delegate assembly. I know Bill got to steal his the show with his school care report here, but Bill and I were both sent on journeys recently. And so at the next meeting, I can report out about what happened here, what we voted on, etc.. Just wanted to bring it up. So to get on a future agenda. And then we've heard some, concern from the community about the CMS music program. So just some sort of discussion about how we can support that, whether it's through volunteers or what, what needs to get the ball rolling so that kids can be playing music, especially kids who aren't necessarily athletes. And that's their big extracurricular.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Yeah.

[R16951-910] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: so it's just, it's not as quick and easy as we would like it to be, unfortunately. And so just people like, I hear you, I want the kids to have band, you know, I play the flute, I get it, I want it to.
TEXT> And so fifth to eighth grade. So like I need this to happen too. But at the same time we also need to make sure we're following all the protocols and procedures and things to. So it's a little bit more complicated than just get somebody in there. So I apologize for the delay. And we want kids to be playing music and we want concerts. I mean want music everywhere too. So as soon as we can we will get that going.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16958-45] Don Lavalette | Ward 2 resident; applicant for the vacant school board seat (former di | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I defer. You're correct. I did not know it was not aware. Thank you.
TEXT> Furthermore, when you say things like his character and and that disparaging him. No, wait a minute. My turn to speak. True. It's disparaging to us. You had a process. You went through the process. That's fine if you're deadlocked. But if you go back and hire somebody who quit. No, wait. That's again Claremont. You made you made decisions that upended kids lives quicker than this process and didn't flinch. So either decide to fill it with Mr. Tyson me, or don't fill it. But and by the way, overwhelmingly I couldn't run. I was employed here, so. And I do have a past. Mr. Sprague as past president of SRA. So take that for what it's worth. But it's an insult. And you were an appointee, by the way?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[R16958-80] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So are you speaking in favor of or.
TEXT> I'm speaking in support of Mr. Lavallée as a public educator committed to being an advocate for students and public schools, which is the role of people on the scored.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak towards the motion? My opposition would be because, quite frankly, I see a school board as many other boards,

[R16976-71] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); School Board Member, Claremont (split-o | 2025-11-13
PREV> Matt Angell: Rocco? Yes. And. Arlene.
TEXT> Yes. All right. Moving on with our agenda. The next item in my. Agenda in front of me is the. So positions update. This is a discussion, and what I'd like to do is read through the course portion, and then we'll have a discussion if anybody has anything to add or ask. And then we'll do the second. I met with an interim Superintendent Kennedy and I'm going to share these updates for our meeting. The dismissal former business administrator Mary Henry was dismissed by mutual agreement as of November 3rd. She received payment for unused vacation leave as required, and there was no other severance pay.  Her records related to her employment termination are public under Right to Know law. RSA 91-A upon written request to the SA office. Should anyone wish to pursue that. We have several resignations and the saw  office is skeleton doesn't even describe it. Our assistant superintendent resigned, and that position was slated to be eliminated in June, but he resigned prior to that. The grants manager has resigned. The director of Student Services has resigned. Human resources director and coordinator both resigned. The curriculum director position was eliminated by the SA Board on September 4th. And I just found out our technology director has resigned. Jeff, discussion or questions about those resignations? Is Whitney.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are we moving forward with aggressive headhunting or. I mean, there are some of these positions that are critical to fill, and we don't know what our capacities to employ

[R16976-80] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); School Board Member, Claremont | 2025-11-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes. Right.
TEXT> I'm not aware of any. So there have been some realignments and some positions added. The realignments are all interim until June 30th. The assistant superintendent position was eliminated, as previously planned, to the unity departure. And that has is being aligned with grant management and curriculum development. And that position is being advertised as an administrative position interim until June. We then have the Director of Student Services position interviews are continuing for an interim interim candidate, and Vallow's interviews will be pending a review by the d o. Prior to offering a position to anyone, the Human Resources director, superintendent's executive assistant who we love and rely on for everything is serving as our interim HR manager, and that has a significant impact on the operations from the superintendent's office to all of the school board chairs. Then there are hiring of time specific positions. By that I mean people are being hired for specific tasks for a specific duration. So the human resources coordinator, that position is already in the budget. That's in addition to the human resources manager. And that position would be the person would be to process paperwork of staff, current and new. We are significantly.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Uncoordinated in terms of inputting information and having paperwork being current. So this person will come in and do that. There will also be two new positions for a fixed

[R16976-116] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); School Board Member, Claremont | 2025-11-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Sure.
TEXT> Yeah. The next topic can move on. Under the agenda is the consultant for student services. This question was brought up at our last meeting in terms of the cost. We currently have one consultant and that is for student services. That person is working with the acting Student Services coordinator to ensure compliance. And this person is providing professional development for the administrative staff. And she's here on an as needed basis, the consultant, because the question was asked about her credentials. She's been a director of Pupil Services for 15 years, special educator for 27 years. She's worked as a para, a special educator, and an out of district coordinator. She is providing professional development, mentoring and a needs assessment. Reading her contract 15 days of professional development, building administrative capacity to address special education needs, which we've all recognized. The question I had before I go into her cost is unity  principal also involved in that professional development? Yes. Okay. Perfect. Thank you. So her,  her charges are $140 per hour for remote contact. Professional development. 100, I'm sorry, 1500 for three hours or more, which is a full day, or 750 for less than three hours. Her bill for September was $5,650.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: That's our consultant. Any questions or comments from anyone on the board? Mr. Sprague, I'd like to see what they're working on for for professional development. I can I can

[R16976-240] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); School Board Member, Claremont | 2025-11-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: have any issues with compliance related to our the director or the interim director of our special education services because of lack of credentials, I don't know. And if so. Is that, rectified by having TMZ? Kind of being the mentor, TMZ. TMZ. Sorry, guys.
TEXT> The question is about the, compliance with the assistant director of Student services. At this point, I don't think TMS is involved in that in any way, shape or form. Correct.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And they were providing.

[R16982-30] Unidentified public commenter | Self-ID rendered by ASR as 'Donnell, Ward two'; announced name not rec | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: everyone has had an opportunity to see it on their on their electronic devices. Now, I'd like to move into, citizens comments. We will now open the floor to non-agenda item citizens comments for policy BEDH. Is there anyone present wishing to speak this evening?
TEXT> Donnell Ward two  I students are reading work and the public find the signed copies of these ethics forms. Just a housekeeping item. I couldn't find them online. While I was there, I was a reviewing CSB policy, BCA member ethics, and I couldn't help but be drawn to number ten. That state's board members will take no private action that will compromise the board and refrain from private actions, which will undermine or compromise official board action. So that was interesting. And that led me to the minutes of the last meeting, when Heather had mentioned that she spoke with Frank, offhandedly suggested he filled a position that seems to be contrary to the policy BCA, and further contrary to paragraph three of the CB, which states board members should refrain from engaging in conduct or actions which give the appearance of a conflict of interest or embarrass the board. Additionally, the last meeting it was mentioned that there were extraordinary circumstances surrounding Frank as a former supporter of Frank, I'm wondering why that account is so different. In the article that was posted, says he declared he could no longer work with the architects of this disaster. I can't work with these people. I don't have any confidence of what they say. I just curious what changed.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: And then that led me to CSB policy bar, evaluation of the board. And I know myself and others in the community look forward to those self-evaluation, particularly around accountability.

[R16982-31] Unidentified public commenter | Self-ID rendered by ASR as 'Donnell, Ward two'; announced name not rec | 2025-11-19
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: that account is so different. In the article that was posted, says he declared he could no longer work with the architects of this disaster. I can't work with these people. I don't have any confidence of what they say. I just curious what changed.
TEXT> And then that led me to CSB policy bar,  evaluation of the board. And I know myself and others in the community look forward to those self-evaluation, particularly around accountability.  So there's that. Additionally, I noticed in New Hampshire School Board Association has a beautiful flowchart. What constitutes a meeting? Just keep that in mind with email usage.  And in closing, I'm proud that my kids spent pre-K to 12 here in the public schools. And with that, I am going to be a candidate for school board elections come March. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Is there anyone else that would like to speak?

[R16982-33] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative (self-identified; citizens' comment | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Is there anyone else that would like to speak?
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Hope Daimon, state representative. I'm not sure if you might be hearing about this otherwise, but yesterday the Senate Education Committee voted 3 to 2  on the amendment to HB 292. That is attempting to create a loan fund.  The current version actually is a loan fund for school for all school districts in distress. It is not specific to Claremont only, which I personally think is progress. The amendment has some strings attached to it, including a different, requirement for what the interest rate is. It's going to if this goes forward, the interest rate will be tied to the New York Federal Reserve Bank rate, which as of yesterday was 3.88. So quite different from some of the previous numbers cited.  And it also has a requirement. Again, this is not a statute at this time.  That districts who accepted this loan money from the state would be required to allow any student in the district to take a voucher to attend a nonpublic school, regardless of whether they would otherwise be qualified to do that or not, or if the state was over the current cap, as it presently is.
NEXT> Hope Damon: So, I don't think that there will be further action on that for several weeks. Maybe not until right after the first of the year, but I did not get

[R16982-36] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaking in citizens' comments a | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you! Is there anyone else in the public who would like to speak?
TEXT> Good evening, Melissa Louis Ward one. But more importantly  on the Claremont educator.  And I think our toes at the elementary level deserve a shout out. So  every single one of our elementary students and elementary staff  received one of these t shirts.  In November 7th, we planned  a Wear your shirt Day a strong stronger together shirt day. And then photos were taken at each of the two elementary schools now uniting all three of our elementary schools. And this would not have been possible without our toes. So huge, huge shout out to them and appreciation about how to unite our schools.  And then my friend Mr. Angel challenged me when I first met him  and and maybe even throw a little gantlet down about district and school pride. No, I have a significant amount of pride  and be referred to, and hopefully we start some language in our school district about being a Claremont educator. So, we. Are proud to be on educators. And we started with we were able to receive  a donation from a generous businessman,  and all of Disney Elementary School  staff were able to purchase a shirt if they wish. We'll keep working on how we can get these out into other buildings as well,  but our pride does not go away. And I think Our Lady Cardinals, showed that quite well.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: That great and hard from Claremont. It's in our kids, it's in our educators. And we're just proud to be here. So huge shout out tonight to everybody that's been

[R16982-41] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: to all students that is differentiated to meet the needs of the whole class. Tier two instruction addresses the needs of students who are not progressing as expected in tier one, and often focuses on specific skill deficits, such as particular math concepts or phonics.
TEXT> Our next item is behavioral specialist positions and budget impacts. Currently, we have two programs at CMS that were previously Esser funded  the Arc, which is  the Academic Resource Center and Restorative School Day. The Des. Both are still in existence. The board approved the creation of these programs to address Covid related learning losses and behavior disruptions. They were approved when they were approved, the executive and building leaders were instructed that funding from the general fund would not absorb those costs once Esser expired. Currently, the Arc offers tier two supports, and the Arc  room is led by support staff, and the support staff is neither a certified teacher or a pair of professional, and that salary is roughly 50,000.  This individual is contracted with a letter of agreement. The Des program is led by a pair of professional with experience in specialized behavioral support. This individual transferred from Bluff on November 3rd.  The RC staff monitors in school suspension and works with students on behavior and restorative work, and has an hourly rate of roughly $25 an hour.  Grant manager the district is posting internally for this position. We currently have one potential candidate. This position will likely evolve into a hybrid position,  absorbing the duties previously assigned to the Curriculum Director and the Assistant Superintendent, the Parent Information Center.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We did have community members speak about this at our last meeting, and I think unbeknownst to that member, Miss Kennedy had already made the connection with the the lead

[R16982-42] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: $25 an hour. Grant manager the district is posting internally for this position. We currently have one potential candidate. This position will likely evolve into a hybrid position, absorbing the duties previously assigned to the Curriculum Director and the Assistant Superintendent, the Parent Information Center.
TEXT> We did have community members speak about this at our last meeting, and I think unbeknownst to that member, Miss Kennedy had already made the connection with the the lead of this organization. So the district is partnering with this organization to help families of special needs students understand their rights and develop productive relationships between families and the district. The organization is led by Gen Cuda. Their first virtual meeting was held on November 18th. Those in attendance included Miss Kennedy, miss McLeod, Miss Cuda, and families that were invited via power school compensation packages for public information. Miss Kennedy is awaiting final approval from our legal counsel regarding what information can be posted. The district is being very sensitive to our employees rights and legal. Should have an answer. Privacy and legal rights.  Is there any questions or comments from the board? Any questions? Yes, Mr. Sprague.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The behavioral specialists we in the past, I mean, that's you haven't heard me talk about it, but certainly the last two administrations have. And, one of the things that

[R16982-58] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any other questions from the board? And moving on now is the superintendent's report. Okay.
TEXT> Good evening everyone. I have a few updates. I did want to just follow up quickly. We had talked about the superintendent's advisory council, and I just want a quick follow up on that. We did have a meeting on November 14th and so thank the following folks. Also, Lois is here Elise craftsman, Jen Gannon, Rod Beaton, Courtney Porter, Rachel Nagler, Sarah Linus, Brandon Teatro Cohen, Christina Bernard, and Molly DeLuca. Were you able to join us? And we did some quick discussions about the data we're going to go into in a few moments, and then also about some reconfiguration options for schools for next year. So we will meet again on the 24th, and then we have another meeting again in a few weeks. So there's a few folks that were on the committee that weren't able to join us at that time. So we were switching to a different time that can meet some more of the members times. I did want to do a shout out quickly also to the National Honor Society members and bear with me for a minute to pull that list up. So academics are really important. Part two. So we have some high school students who were inducted into the National Honor Society at Stevens High School.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so we want to recognize their academic prowess. So the following members were inducted recently. And so their names are Kaylee Pike, Emma Bell, Kira Simoneau, Caden, Ryan, Kaylee

[R16982-59] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: also to the National Honor Society members and bear with me for a minute to pull that list up. So academics are really important. Part two. So we have some high school students who were inducted into the National Honor Society at Stevens High School.
TEXT> And so we want to recognize their academic prowess. So the following members were inducted recently. And so their names are Kaylee Pike,  Emma Bell, Kira Simoneau, Caden, Ryan, Kaylee Ferland, hamlet Collado, Olivia, Sergeant, Lucas Thibeault, Ella Smith, Ragan Brothers, and Alex Gora. If you would mind, join me in a round of applause for. Their academic endeavors. And quickly adding on to that, we have the National Art Honor Society inductees. And so we have six folks in that Gianna Bovell, Liliana Clark, Carly Demers,  Adam Jensen, Addison Lane, and Kaylee Pike. So please join me in congratulating them. So we want to recognize all of their hard work for in school, in academic artwork, you name it. So we appreciate their dedication to their academics.  All right. So following up, there was a question about the CMS, past and current,  staffing. And there are some students that were listed before. I mean, staffing, I should say that were listed. Hold on my computer. Signing in. Hold on. And so there has been a turnover. I didn't have to get a chance to do all of the calculations. And so there was a question about and I don't know if everybody got to see the report that was there for the numbers. And so there was staff that had left, but many of the positions were still filled this year. And so that was a good apologize.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Playing at that table.

[R16982-63] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: so there are a couple of teachers that are doing two grades now instead of just the one grade to make up for the curriculum loss of the two teachers. We do have a science teacher, in the sixth grade, seventh grade and eighth grade.
TEXT> We have a social studies teacher in six, seventh and eighth. A caveat and shout out to Rebecca, who is doing science and social studies this year to try and make the curriculum work. Because it's not we did not have the we had a social studies teacher that was another teacher who was ripped at the sixth grade level. World languages is option. We don't have that option right now at the middle school and it's saying you could have it. It's not necessarily mandatory. Counselor, the recommendation from the state is you have one for 300 students. We have one. We have one and a half. And so it fits the numbers. It's not the practice that we had last year. We had one per grade level. This year we have one and a half for the three grade levels. So it is a difference of of who we had. We also have some contracted service providers that are filling the counseling needs. For some folks from West Ed or Cartwheel Online  student services for special education. This year  we have one for sixth grade. Right now we have one for seventh grade and one for eighth grade and one teacher for Sam. Excuse me? For life skills. There's one principal. There's one assistant. Principal. There is an administrative assistant, and then a substitute is in there for now. There is a nurse position that's to be there, but we unfortunately do not have the nurse.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And that is unfortunately impacting other roles because other folks are having to assume the nurse responsibilities. Again, put it out. There. We have it posted. We were hoping to

[R16982-64] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: for Sam. Excuse me? For life skills. There's one principal. There's one assistant. Principal. There is an administrative assistant, and then a substitute is in there for now. There is a nurse position that's to be there, but we unfortunately do not have the nurse.
TEXT> And that is unfortunately impacting other  roles because other folks are having to assume the nurse responsibilities. Again, put it out. There. We have it posted. We were hoping to have somebody full time in January. That first candidate is unfortunately, due to conflicts within their own family life, has not been able to fulfill that now. So we do need a nurse at the middle school. We do have an El teacher who services all the grades, and that is something that we have to put forward because we have more students, and we will be looking next year to add somebody else for, it really should be K to, you know, three or K to four or 5 or 6 or so and then 7 to 12, or looking at the numbers to see what would make the most sense academically. We do have the architecture, the academic resource teacher. We do have the restorative school day teacher or adult person in there.  And then the athletic director. We have a volunteer right now. It has been budgeted before. And so that's the discussion to to have is it's not mandatory, but it is something that's been useful for having that position.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so we have the hours of instruction. And so for grades 1 to 6 sixth grade is that still under the elementary category. So they have 945 hours. Seventh

[R16982-65] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: teacher or adult person in there. And then the athletic director. We have a volunteer right now. It has been budgeted before. And so that's the discussion to to have is it's not mandatory, but it is something that's been useful for having that position.
TEXT> And so we have the hours of instruction. And so for grades 1 to 6 sixth grade is that still under the elementary category. So they have 945 hours. Seventh through 12th graders have 990 hours. Our schedule accommodates those. But just so folks are aware in the Ed 306, we do have some extended learning opportunities as well. At the middle school, we have some students who are taking advantage math. We have some students that are taking some, you know, a different grade Ela and some classes too. So the Virtual Learning Academy charter school students take that. So they go into the academic resource Center. They're able to their families sign them up for the advanced classes. And then while they're in the Academic Resource Center, they're accessing their curriculum for the expanded learning extensively standard learning opportunity within that. So we did have some changes from staff at the middle school. So there was a visual arts teacher who had resigned, and it was similarly placed with some other arts teachers that we had, but it was not a direct, you know, class art teacher, you know, visual arts that we had exactly was before  we had, eliminated.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And that was per the board's recommendation in the Superintendent Commendation prior to me eliminated the position that had the Ark support personnel. There were two folks in that academic

[R16982-71] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Right now? Let me just pull it up for a second. It was three. I want to say it was three. So I had actually yesterday. Hold on. 31. I want to say so.
TEXT> 33331 students over.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It was. 331. There's 186 graders, 110 seventh graders and 113 eighth graders. Thank you. Shortly. Okay. Go ahead.

[R16982-80] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: For that rumor that's.
TEXT> Out there. No. And I think, you know, folks and I met with, you know, principals today, too. There's, some academic supports in the special ed world that that's trickier too. And so there's some folks that we had. So we started off the year, you know, one of the educators was in a behavior program had switched out. So the eighth graders started off already a little bit behind without having a special educator. So they're trying to do some services. We had the meeting with a parent information center. What does it look like and how we can, you know, catch up on some of the services. The pair support is definitely something that's still in need. We are looking  you know, for we've had it posted unfortunately you know in Mr.. And I talked about today to it is a nationwide shortage. It is not necessarily just unique to play around. It doesn't help our educators. Right. They're still feeling the the shortage. And so there's some students who are struggling academically  and to might have had more support. We did actually have, you know two folks in the Academic Resource center last year. We have one. And so it's just making sure that everybody has time to get the resources. And that's tricky for everybody right now. And of course, some of the other folks that we have, you know, even administratively, you know, the assistant principals in the nurse's office a lot and things too.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So there are some, shortages that are there impacting the day. I know Mr. Chanel has been working with families to just kind of work on the behavior folks and

[R16982-81] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: sure that everybody has time to get the resources. And that's tricky for everybody right now. And of course, some of the other folks that we have, you know, even administratively, you know, the assistant principals in the nurse's office a lot and things too.
TEXT> So there are some, shortages that are there impacting the day. I know Mr. Chanel  has been working with families to just kind of work on the behavior folks and just, you know, the folks that we have in behavior, but then also the students and understanding how to support that, that is, you know, seeing a slight progress. And hopefully in the next few weeks, we'll see even more progress. But it's still, you know, we're looking for paraprofessionals. I put signs out today at the Dow office. You haven't seen it there. So we are looking for folks, and, you know, trying to figure out we're still discussing a building based sub because of the sub that we did have access to is now a long term sub because we still don't have the health teacher. So even though on paper there may look like there's some supports, it's still lacking in the day to day because they're already somewhere else. And so and that impacts to like the secretary position. And so that person's out on a sub. And so there's just still some areas that we need to work on filling. Go ahead.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Does anybody else have anything to say.

[R16982-114] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any other questions for Miss Kennedy?
TEXT> All right. So there was just some questions about the pride and the sub programs. I just want to go over a little bit. Student services, if you want. You know, miss McLeod can help fill out on some things, but I'll share out what we do have. So everybody's aware. So I think because there are some programs that have been at bluff and they had shifted. And just so everybody is aware of things. So, the pride program is at the was it bluff program is now at Maple Avenue, and it's a self-contained behavior program at the elementary level. And so there's a teacher in two paraprofessionals in that one. There's actually we have the need. We've still have an open position for a pair within that classroom to meet the needs in the students. There's max of 12 students right now. There's six, but they must be safety care trained in order to help maintain the safe and learning environment for students. And so they need a micro credential in emotional disturbance. And there's a special educator with that. So then moving up to the camp, which is a similar program at the middle school level.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so that has a self-contained middle school program as well. That one is based on the micro credential of emotional disturbance that one needs, a special educator, which it

[R16982-115] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: order to help maintain the safe and learning environment for students. And so they need a micro credential in emotional disturbance. And there's a special educator with that. So then moving up to the camp, which is a similar program at the middle school level.
TEXT> And so that has a self-contained middle school program as well. That one is based on the micro credential of emotional disturbance that one needs, a special educator, which it has, a general educator, which has an a dual certified paraprofessional. We are looking for more paraprofessional supports. We're hopefully in the works of getting somebody to support that program. That one has a max of 12 students, you know, and ideally it has a pair of professional unless the disabilities themselves warrant a specific one.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: To one. Are there 12 students in that program.

[R16982-116] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: We are looking for more paraprofessional supports. We're hopefully in the works of getting somebody to support that program. That one has a max of 12 students, you know, and ideally it has a pair of professional unless the disabilities themselves warrant a specific one.
TEXT> To one. Are there 12 students in that program.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Right now? There's eight, I believe. Excuse me, miss, do you know there's eight? I think at camp.

[R16982-128] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: In that? That one is the ability I think to have 20. Am I correct.
TEXT> There's 20 in there out. And I'm so sorry. Did you say it was a self-contained because it's a hybrid program under the high school. So, I believe that there is. So there's a morning program and an afternoon program. It's two hours a day. The students are 50/50, so half are identified and half are not.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so there are 20. So ten in the morning and ten in the afternoon.

[R16982-130] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: And so there are 20. So ten in the morning and ten in the afternoon.
TEXT> As far as I'm aware, there's about ten in the morning and then ten in the afternoon. I will tell you there's a couple other students, one from out of district that has come back that, you know, we're, we're working out from placement for. So that's a discussion. So there may be other students, but we have to keep the balance of 5050. So, you know, but there's other students that maybe consider from Michael's just cycles building and out of district.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so that's a little bit different. So that one is just saying it's a half and half. Where is the special education. The camp program at the middle school

[R16982-171] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Six is needed.
TEXT> There's five pairs and those are 1 to 1. Understand that these students are as many of their medically, medically, intellectually disabled and autism and have autism. And so in their IPS, those numbers are based on what's prescribed in the eye of the, and so we are one pair of short. We've been engaging with contracting services to try to fill that position. The next is what we call vision. Sorry partner.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: May I ask, is there a is there a special educator in there? Thank you.

[R16982-174] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> Next is partner. We are amending that program approval. So it was previously housed at the love. But it is there's a continuum of those big programs. So visions is our two three, grade two three. There is a special educator that has probably the highest number of students in it. Right now.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Many students are in there.

[R16982-175] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Jessica McCloud: approval. So it was previously housed at the love. But it is there's a continuum of those big programs. So visions is our two three, grade two three. There is a special educator that has probably the highest number of students in it. Right now.
TEXT> Many students are in there.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: The max is 12, but that one has, seven positions that are filled. We still need one. Another one,

[R16982-178] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Jessica McCloud: I think there's eight pairs that are needed for those.
TEXT> How many children are in that program? How many children are in that program?
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Believe there's eight?

[R16982-181] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Eight.
TEXT> Eight students. There's seven paras, seven. One to ones right now. And so we are one short, there is a bcb a so we have constellations trying to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What did you just. Say.

[R16982-186] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: You said these.
TEXT> These board. Certified. Behavior analyst. So the program has those programs because of the complexity  of student challenges and skills necessary. They have a board certified behavior analyst supporting those three programs in addition to Pride, the behavior program that if care needs to be to elaborate on after I can. So there's a BCB that's supporting those students with their behavior plan, structure in the day, but we're still missing a  para for one one 1 to 1 position in there.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And if I may, there is a general educator and there. Is.

[R16982-193] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Jessica McCloud: But those are. Yes. So for one to ones I believe we're missing three three pairs for that program.
TEXT> And that was what we brought up as well in the parent information center and talked about services and how to make sure folks can get those. We have another meeting coming up in January for families that are interested in finding out more information about special education  and how to advocate for services for students, and we are willing to partner with everybody.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So thank you. Thank you, miss McLeod, for clarity. Thank you for coming. Thank you. Okay. Anything else?

[R16982-196] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: it look like? And it could be impacting some of the things that we're doing every day. So just putting it out there that we're going to start talking to discussing this, another one resource that we have is tudor.com. So families we heard you.
TEXT> We understand we do have access to some online tutoring. So in the next few weeks we'll be getting that rolled out. It does have services for ESL two for English as a second language or, you know, English language learners.  So there are multiple languages available. But it could be for AP classes, it could be for text center classes. So there's a variety of tutoring coming up soon. So be on the lookout for that. And we have some things for the academic. So if I can just do some quick shout outs for this. This is a great thing. We have some schools that are still in need of support, and I'll come back to that, but I want to recognize some schools that have moved forward. So Miss Lewis may do a dance if you'd like to. So, Maple Avenue, as well as also in Disney Art elementary, are now listed as schools in good standing at the Department of Education. And so that's a great thing. Unity is not here represented, but they are also in good standing. So that was great. So the one thing that we were working on, and we met with the principals yesterday and the Department of Ed discussing our district improvement plan, which will be developing, and then our school improvement plans because of that. So just full disclosure, the students who are in Bluff Bluff had been identified as a comprehensive support and improvement needs school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so unfortunately, it was one of the lowest performing schools in the state, lowest 5%. So the students that went for those schools did go to Maple Avenue into

[R16982-197] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: and the Department of Ed discussing our district improvement plan, which will be developing, and then our school improvement plans because of that. So just full disclosure, the students who are in Bluff Bluff had been identified as a comprehensive support and improvement needs school.
TEXT> And so unfortunately, it was one of the lowest performing schools in the state, lowest 5%. So the students that went for those schools did go to Maple Avenue into Disney art. And so they'll be they're assimilated into those schools. So hopefully we'll be able to work on that.  But the the grant money that came with those students that are following to those schools, there are some things that we're working on for academic support, just for family support. Similarly about the you know, I appreciate the teachers and just the unity and that's really helpful to and so the middle school has some targeted support specifically for students with disability and then students who are in the free and religious lunch category. So we're going to work on some action plans around that. And then similarly with the high school there, students with disability, we have some targeted support and improvement plans that will be working on that too. So we want to make sure that every student is, you know, making the most progress and really feeling successful in school. So we'll do a more formal presentation about the action plans and a few more weeks. But I just want folks to be aware I did put that out there in the news,  you know, into a release that the scores are there.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So if you want some more specifics, you can go into that. So, just one more quick thing. So the student services position, we're looking forward to move on that

[R16982-198] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: in school. So we'll do a more formal presentation about the action plans and a few more weeks. But I just want folks to be aware I did put that out there in the news, you know, into a release that the scores are there.
TEXT> So if you want some more specifics, you can go into that. So, just one more quick thing. So the student services position, we're looking forward to move on that the director position. And then also, we have the technology director of technology. So we're moving forward for somebody in that position. And then just a quick thing, it's SA6, but it packs everybody else too. So we have hired a temporary employee to assist with HR and data entry. So Gladys Berry is at the Dow a couple of days a week just to help us and help our Chelsea to get some more data entered into that. So,  and just to reiterate for folks, Gen guess, is assuming some more administrative assistant roles for me. So J guess at  dog, we'll be yelling her. She's doing some more work on scheduling and things, so and also phone calls. So it has work to make sure. So unfortunately I feel some folks have had some phone calls, maybe not returns that have been sitting under Chelsea's box that she hasn't gotten to. And they really should be for gen gas and so and for me and things.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So the new.

[R16982-233] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Too bad. I do see special ed pears at Maple are 383,000 over why.
TEXT> Those are the bluff move. Yeah. So just a quick follow up on that. So what happened is when the students transitioned from Bluff to Maple, the program came over. The students and special ed needs still went with them, but it wasn't allocated under that because when we first started, it was it was just maple. Yeah. So so.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Here you're saying is that if, maple special ed pairs are down are over budgeted by 383,000. And the compensation should be in bluff.

[R16982-272] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (reinstated to the board 11/5/25) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Oh, stipend. So. No, it's not 2000. From my notes, I have 16,000. I don't know what it is exactly. The pre-K is in the budget. And because we're doing those pushing services, there's somebody overseeing. That is my understanding. Okay. So I don't.
TEXT> Know, somewhere there's services being delivered to pre-K kids that aren't in this specifically in this document.
NEXT> Unidentified: It is.

[R16982-281] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's Hawkins.
TEXT> Isn't there something that is not where there is someone there who was coordinating the push end services for our pre-K students, 3 to 5 students, is that not there?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Is. And we'll give a full pre-K report so we.

[R16982-297] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: of the things that we introduced here, and we will elaborate on I also quick and because I'm nervous. Another shout out for Miss Harrington, who worked really hard on the her side of this. And we'll get into that because I've got sticky notes.
TEXT> One of the things, that we introduced was career clusters. Okay. And what this does is it aligns the coursework to careers that are out in the, in the real world. And what will have is, surveys that kids can do. They can check to see what their aptitudes are, what their interests are, what careers align with those interests. And now they can guide their coursework with what they want to do. Outside of Stevens High School. So now it's not hey, let's do this to graduate. It's what do you want to do with your life and why? Let me help you get in the direction where you're going. And this isn't like once you're there, you're there. You can move. You know, you still have the ability to have a liberal arts education at Stevens High School. And it really is. It's the introduction this year as we move into the next year and the year after. We will expand upon that. As we went through this, we went through, I'm going to say we it was it was the school counselors went through so  many other, programs of studies and they went through, what they liked, what they didn't like, or some reasons why they pulled things. And they talked about how we could add things and make it better.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It was really a collaborative effort that they put in countless hours for. Now, also in this, we've got changes to Eddie 306 with graduation requirements. Okay. So in this

[R16982-319] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: It work? Pretty well. Does what you know, we're all for a while and people had better ideas. And now it's back.
TEXT> I have a whole bunch of questions, but I'm not going to ask them all tonight. So maybe at some point we can sit down and have a conversation because I have a very limited experience with high school other than going through it, and my kids went through. So bear with me. What is fall? Winter? Spirit? Sport?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Spirits? Cheerleading.

[R16982-329] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And again, with policy, the work that we're doing, I know that you're working diligently on getting an honor roll in there. And I thought honor roll was going to be included and I did not see it. Maybe it's there and I. Missed it.
TEXT> I think what happened, by the way, I do have a list of students for on our own. So we did. It can be added. I was waiting for. Was it because we discussed we had a great meeting. And talking about, some changes to the policy that was there. And I will give Mr. Wilson credit here because I first said no. And then he  showed me something that was much better, is actually moving the asking to move the policy away from the number of A's and B's and actually look at, GPA. GPA for the quarter. Yeah.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Is that the draft that you sent to the policy committee that we got, or is this an update. To that?

[R16982-333] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (sentence continuation) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Through that to the policy committee.
TEXT> I will I will. Change the wording in there because it really is a bet. It gives students a better snapshot and it gives them a little bit of leeway. And we really kind of worked out some better wording. I was waiting for that policy to kind of.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: You know, and it's in we had a discussion about it and we're ready to move it forward. But if you have changes to it, please get it.

[R16982-337] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So if you want to put it in the program or studies, I think that would be an okay thing to do. For moving that boat and and for Mr. Madden's benefit, I think especially because that's something he's really been looking to have included.
TEXT> We did run the idea of how we wanted to do it. He said it sounded great. So because with. The system right now, There's. 122 students. But if we did just and I just did the numbers based off of a 3.0 and above, it would raise it to 173.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: 173 students on honor roll.

[R16982-338] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: how we wanted to do it. He said it sounded great. So because with. The system right now, There's. 122 students. But if we did just and I just did the numbers based off of a 3.0 and above, it would raise it to 173.
TEXT> 173 students on honor roll.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Honor or high honor? Yes. With with a new proposed idea.

[R16982-352] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: I'm already going to get it over the sticky note. I will say that our art teacher, Shelley, is probably one of the most flexible. And, just go get them at attitude. I think she'd work with anybody so we could probably make something work.
TEXT> And another question. I have many of them. There were a couple of cases where a student needed to have a prerequisite  and then have taken in ninth grade, but that would that mean they're taking it in middle school? Is taking the subject as a prerequisite in eighth grade?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So like so for some of the math students, there is the I think it was mentioned before that they can take or they can take algebra one, their eighth

[R16982-353] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: many of them. There were a couple of cases where a student needed to have a prerequisite and then have taken in ninth grade, but that would that mean they're taking it in middle school? Is taking the subject as a prerequisite in eighth grade?
TEXT> So like so for some of the math students, there is the I think it was mentioned before that they can take or they can take algebra one, their eighth grade. So then they as freshmen, you can take geometry. So there are some that are offered in the middle school. And we will have one next year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's great.

[R16982-355] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's great.
TEXT> And one other thing that struck me was there are some classes that are very basic classes where students who get support in their classes. And when I read through it, I thought, is there a way to phrase it with as again, recommended by your teacher, with the eighth grade teacher collaborating with the ninth grade teacher, rather than explicitly saying a special education student and a para. I just felt in some some of the courses it said recommendation by teacher. In a couple of the other very basic classes, it specifically identified special education students and the I'm sorry, special education teacher would be there with a para. And I just thought anyone who signed up for that class, I would hope there's a better way to identify that.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I am with you 100%, and here is the problem that I run into and I am looking for an answer is because we had this conversation the other day,

[R16982-357] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: in there and I'm okay changing it. But next to it you have the class number which is dictated by the state. And the class number of special ed classes is literally sped in a number, so you can hide it, but it's still there.
TEXT> And that's why I'm hiding it necessarily. But the number is whatever the number has to be for the state. But I'm and you're saying you were looking for a way to do that, since a lot of the classes require a recommendation by the teacher. Just put. Recommendation at an IEP meeting. That's what's happening. You're having the recommended placement, the recommended courses. I just feel that it's an identification of students that doesn't have to be there okay. My opinion.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Well that would be the teacher, right? You're just saying.

[R16982-368] Unidentified student | Stevens High School student (self-described college applicant; not nam | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: You can come up to the microphone. Yes.
TEXT> I just wanted to say something about the college classes and the, like, credits. That are offered through the high school. So I'm applying to schools this year, and I've been looking at specific schools and the requirements for the degree I'm going for,  and also just general education requirements. And at this point, Stevens and the tech Center at Newport and here have given me enough college credits to be able to graduate college a semester or a year early, which is a great opportunity for me because I can afford college, so it's really expensive. And, I just wanted to, I guess, say that that's a really great program that is offered by Claremont School District, because I know that that is also the case for a lot of other students. And it's just a really great thing. So yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. I just have a question and a comment. I know that we're supposed to have a I think it's a half a credit of Holocaust and

[R16982-379] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: Yeah, that would fit squarely in the world history. But we will make sure and we'll get back on that.
TEXT> And your in your appendix. I just didn't see any appendix. And I just wanted to thank you all.  Really. This elevated program of studies, we have been, as a board, so frustrated, at some of the things that have been presented to us. And this is reflective of. What what. We are hoping. So, you know, our district is represented at. So thank you, thank you and thank you. And additionally putting front and center to this lovely ladies point. The bridge to college courses. And I know as a board, we've all felt it's just critical for the very reasons that this young lady mentioned is that it's a barrier. Finances are a barrier. And for us to be able to springboard students forward is just fantastic. So to have worked with RVC so  I couldn't be happier. Actually, I and I don't know whether or not we want to move forward and vote Arlene or you want to wait until we kind of.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Need to do this. I mean, because.

[R16982-409] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So looking at contracts and something that would be, you know negotiated with an attorney to to make sure it's looking even more thing. But it's binding and it's what we have. And so we're it's recommended to not, you know, change that right now.
TEXT> I also reached out to the program director at Plymouth State and to the director of special education  at the New Hampshire Department of Education. And these interns can provide services, although they're not necessarily billable directly, they can provide services that will meet faith requirements for students within the context of their internship. So there is a value added to the district that I think there was an from the board, whether or not there was going to be value added from these students. And so although they are students, because they are being supervised for either a certified or a licensed  school psychologist, they can do the counseling, they can do the assessments and so forth, because they are being overseen, but they cannot bill. They would be billed underneath the licensed school psychologist.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I think I heard miss McCloud say that there was a sheet that identified what they what services they could provide. There was I think I heard you say that

[R16982-454] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Matt Angell: Right now we're paying a as. As Mr. Madden spoke at the last meeting, $90,000 a year to pick up a homeless student that cost. Yeah, we are splitting the cost, but, that would alleviate some of that need.
TEXT> So this individual would be certified to drive our 15 passenger van? Yes, sure. Sorry. This, whoever would take this position or the position would include being able to be certified to drive our 15 person van to pick up students that need transportation, such as individuals that are homeless. Yes.
NEXT> Matt Angell: And then actually, if you think about it, would improve their program because they're trying to pick up truant students. Makes logical sense.

[R16982-455] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: to drive our 15 passenger van? Yes, sure. Sorry. This, whoever would take this position or the position would include being able to be certified to drive our 15 person van to pick up students that need transportation, such as individuals that are homeless. Yes.
TEXT> And then actually, if you think about it, would improve their program because they're trying to pick up truant students. Makes logical sense.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr.. Miss Hawkins then, Mister. Sprague.

[R16982-480] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (reinstated to the board 11/5/25) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Matt Angell: We don't have a grant writer.
TEXT> Well, that's. I mean, it's part of it. McKinney Vento is money that's attached to homeless students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Yes. That's what we're working on to make sure that we're getting built. You know, just getting.

[R16982-485] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (reinstated to the board 11/5/25) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: The federal funds are limited on that, so there's definitely not a direct cost back to, you know, a reimbursement back to us for dollar. For dollar.
TEXT> I would I would find the argument far more compelling if we saw data that showed the efficacy of, of this as an intervention.  From my own experience. Truancy is a symptom of something else.  And often older kids, it's the fact that they are finding school a place they don't want to be.  And so for what? For a number of reasons. And alternative programing, in-house dropout prevention programing as we developed when when I worked at Stevens. So it's really a symptom of of other of a larger group of issues, many of which we we  untangled without a true an officer. So I would find it helpful if I saw some data on the this work or not, because I think one of the things where I am as a board member is sort of when people ask for things, if I don't not given the information I need to make an intelligent decision, then the question in my mind is why should I? Why should I vote. For this? So so data would be helpful.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Miss Hawkins.

[R16982-497] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (sentence contin | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: You need to go to the mic.
TEXT> Sorry. We have used Scott as an intervention for chins. When we have to establish why a student isn't coming to school and that student has special ed needs, Scott has been pivotal in that that we're demonstrating. He has, you know, that we're demonstrating an ability to have that continuity between home to school. Scott has been able to, I don't even know one of my hardest to reach students. He has made gains with this student that I have not been able to do. Even with home visits with a student in two years, he was able to get the student to warm up and since his absence, we were inching closer to her to this student going out of district. I truly think Scott is just as a special. And in terms of special ed, he's able to get paperwork that I can't get when parents are not reachable. So being able to meet special ed deadlines, Scott has assisted with that in addition to kind of that, bridging that kind of home to school gap with students that have anxiety, depression. And we need that, that support. He has been able to lend that this year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Doctor Harrington.

[R16982-501] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: having the parents come in. But if you didn't have someone go to the house, they will not follow through with it. Right. It just it stops. What I like my my ability to go outside of the building as an administrator is incredibly limited.
TEXT> Right? That that is. And I'm okay. And I will say that is not for lack of trying. Courtney Porter has made  a, home visits. I call her up. She's like, yeah, let me finish this. I'll do what I can. She's one person. Okay.  Now on Scott. Scott, when we start working, I mean, we've put together he came on, we put together weekly meetings. Middle of March, middle of March.  Put on weekly meetings, print out a list, go through. And he'd come back next week. And he's like, I've gone through. He prioritized. I've talked to every single one of them. He would come into the building, he'd get kids that haven't been in weeks. He'd get it and check him on him in class, see him in the hallway. Hey, glad to see your hair. He had a kid come into school. Hadn't been to school in two years. Two years kid hadn't been in. I'd never seen him. Hey, he's got art right now. Let's go. He came in. He kids here, he's got art. Let's go say hi.  I cannot  the passion and the relationships that he's building and bringing kids back in, it is really.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It's all inspiring. Like I'm not. I mean, it is something. And to see that. There's one student that his attendance has been on and on and off, but he

[R16982-502] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: been in. I'd never seen him. Hey, he's got art right now. Let's go. He came in. He kids here, he's got art. Let's go say hi. I cannot the passion and the relationships that he's building and bringing kids back in, it is really.
TEXT> It's all inspiring. Like I'm not. I mean, it is something. And to see that. There's one student  that his attendance has been on and on and off, but he was gone for a week or two, and you got him to come back, and he's still on and off. And I think the fact that he's still coming, I think is because of Scott Maple here. I know there's questions and comments about, is this good for funding? Is, you know, what's the cost? And by all means, we need to look through that lens. I don't think we can afford not to. Pun kind of intended there. But the reality of the situation is when you go in and say, is this good for the city of Claremont and its students?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you for that.

[R16982-517] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (reinstated to the board 11/5/25) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I was. Not expecting it to fix everything, just for the record.
TEXT> It's going to fix little, I'm afraid, but it'll help some kids. So I'm, not sure if I'm going to vote no or abstain, but I just thought of. No offense. Nothing to do with you. Nothing to do with the position, just the chaos.
NEXT> Scott Maple: Well, I understand, and and I think what you're getting at is. Yes. Now you have chaos and kids not coming to school. And there could be a number of

[R16982-518] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's going to fix little, I'm afraid, but it'll help some kids. So I'm, not sure if I'm going to vote no or abstain, but I just thought of. No offense. Nothing to do with you. Nothing to do with the position, just the chaos.
TEXT> Well, I understand, and and I think what you're getting at is. Yes.  Now you have chaos and kids not coming to school. And there could be a number of reasons why. But I will tell you that the number one reason for not coming to school is  somebody not keeping half of them.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Right, Mr. Mason? Right. I just have to keep it in. I'm so sorry. We just want to keep that conversation within the board. Just temporarily. Mr.. Peter.

[R16982-523] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: And I guess I guess.
TEXT> We still have students in programs all throughout the summer, too.
NEXT> Matt Angell: So 260 days. A year.

[R16982-527] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Matt Angell: I think it's in the superintendent's office.
TEXT> And then not knowing who's in this position or who would be in this position in the future. I think as part of that reporting process, there needs to be some way to make sure this person is being productive. And, you know, during the summer, there's less students in school, so they'd be less truancy. So something in place to make sure, you know, in my field, we have to be productive or else we go home early. Yeah. So we need to make sure that this is a productive, you know, teachers  have a certain amount of downtime, you know, in their day. So I think this position needs to kind of follow that suit to make sure, Obviously they're going to be busy, but some accountability. And then again, to no person in particular, but to the position itself.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: My hopes is that the job description would clarify the role. To Mr. Peters point. That was my concern as well. And my thoughts were on some level is having

[R16982-568] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (titl | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: What is it? Call you up and give your. Do your magic and explain.
TEXT> I'm too short for that podium. So, Zach Thomas, he's the new entrepreneurship teacher. He reached out to Home Depot, and got this Home Depot outreach coordinator. And they come and do projects for any kind of,  you know, nonprofit schools. And we're going to get new flooring in the entrepreneurship classroom, because if you've been in there, you've seen that the carpet is  very well loved is how I like to say it. So when you have this screen printing machine and you have ink with on your feet with students and stuff, we really want to push towards, industry standards. And that's how we would have the flooring. So we are pushing for what we I try to push that limit a little bit more. So we they approved the entrepreneurship two classrooms. So we'll have it in the school store and we'll have it in the lab space next door. I would like to push it forward, the, restaurant area  because that is carpet as well. And the medical assisting program upstairs. Why not ask? Right. At least they can say no. They've never done any anything over 1000ft². So we're going to hopefully accept this donation for that room.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: But we're not done yet. We will just see if they're they're going to talk to the higher ups to kind of see if they're able to, to have the

[R16982-594] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: List of part is always.
TEXT> The first one. I hope you had a chance to read through the policies. They were last minute because of the transition.  The first one we've had is head head lice. It's a revision of a former policy and it changes the management on the day of diagnosis from students will not remain in class to May for the remainder of the day. And it's per CDC guidelines. Nurses have had input into this policy. And we deleted number four because it appeared to be a little contradictory. So that's the policy representing tonight what I'd like to do, if it's okay with the board, is go through them and then do a motion on passing or first reading or second reading. Is that all right?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: All at once.

[R16982-600] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: In the board.
TEXT> Yeah. Or anybody on the board. The second policy is Cafe, which is public conduct on school property at school events. Basically this one, if you read the notes, section eight clarifies the New Hampshire statute regarding public attendance  on or on school property and aligns with and previous and clarifies the previously adopted Jay. I see, and that is an update from 2006. The next one is DAFB, which is equivalence in instructional staff and materials. This is missing from our policy manual and its title one schools to ensure comparative comparability across schools. The next one that is missing and these are required priority policies is f a which is availability and distribution of healthy foods. Input was provided by our food coordinator for Claremont Schools, and it assures that all food or beverages served during the day will be healthy and meet state and federal statutes. The next missing policy is I'm b a, which is remote education,  and it can be used in two ways. One is for remote learning for snow days, which Claremont does not have, but also for alternative learning programs, which we do have, and it provides for rescinding permission of if progress is not being made for students who are working remotely in these programs.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: The next one is policy JLP, which is a brand new policy. It's in response to RSA 18611. It's basically a will not policy in regard to parental involvement, unless

[R16982-643] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right. So it was seconded by Lauren Howard. Okay. And open for discussion. Yes, Mr. Patron.
TEXT> I just disagree with changing the phrasing to me. I think when you find if you find someone with Covid or cold vomiting, you don't allow those students to remain in class. And I would put head lice into that category of you go home.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: This this was a big discussion at our policy meeting as well. And the CDC guidelines have changed since many of us were in school. And the policy does say

[R16982-644] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: I just disagree with changing the phrasing to me. I think when you find if you find someone with Covid or cold vomiting, you don't allow those students to remain in class. And I would put head lice into that category of you go home.
TEXT> This this was a big discussion at our policy meeting as well. And the CDC guidelines have changed since many of us were in school. And the policy does say that they may stay in class. There's also a statement in the policy that if the child feels uncomfortable, they can go to the office or the nurse's office. And the parent will pick them up at the end of the day, if I remember correctly.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is that accurate?

[R16982-646] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is that accurate?
TEXT> I think so. Yeah. I think our discussion ended up trailing into, sticking with the CDC guidance, because our assumption would be that most students who were found with head lice would not want they would choose not to stay in the room anyway. And then that choice would still allow us to be within the guideline. And then to your point about colds and stuff, I think there's categorized as different types of illnesses. And because of that, there are slightly different recommendations between like a bug being on your head. And again, I'm not a, you know, a health person here, but a bug on your head versus an actual like live virus. And you are categorized very differently in how you interact with that person.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I still disagree.

[R16982-652] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yes. And they're the ones who brought it to our attention.
TEXT> Part of it was, I think, the discussion about interrupting the schooling. And if the CDC is saying this is not technically a live virus, where you'd have to quarantine and remove this person, you're then again,  maybe phrasing it wrong.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but we would possibly be liable for that student missing  instructional time if it was like a forest decision and not a okay, you've been identified with lice. Do you want to wait till the end of the school day to get picked up? Do you want to go back to the room? Most kids are going to say, I they know they took me out for whatever it is. So you're sure?  Go ahead.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I also disagree. You're seriously putting that decision on an eight year old kid, whether they want to stay in school or if they want to go home. I mean

[R16982-653] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Loren Howard: want to wait till the end of the school day to get picked up? Do you want to go back to the room? Most kids are going to say, I they know they took me out for whatever it is. So you're sure? Go ahead.
TEXT> I also disagree. You're seriously putting that decision on an eight year old kid, whether they want to stay in school or if they want to go home. I mean that's the that I don't.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: That that happens with stomach aches and stuff where you know, how do you feel, do you feel well enough to make it through.

[R16982-657] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Loren Howard: You fever.
TEXT> Fever, other symptoms of other illness, other things. You the kid is child is not making the decision. A child that is not legally allowed to make certain decisions, decision to stay in class or to go is they don't make that children make those decisions in other cases, in other.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Right. And again, it's the way it's being viewed by the CDC and the fact that it says may remain in class. It does not say will is. The other

[R16982-684] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Unidentified: Second. Second.
TEXT> I just had questions about the second to last paragraph, which was the superintendent is authorized to adopt a procedure that permits district personnel to withhold any of the above information from a parent if a reasonably prudent person would believe that such disclosure would result in abuse, abandonment, or neglect of a student or other child as those terms as defined. And I did  look up that RSA, so. I'm  I'm just struggle with that quite frankly. I mean like if you are concerned that a child is going to be abused, then you need a mandatory reporter.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: It doesn't say you don't do that. This this policy is if this policy is is a priority. It's based on a recent RSA and we yes, cannot take away

[R16982-695] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: I don't understand your point.
TEXT> Well, I think it's a slippery slope. I mean, we actually have had a number of issues in our district and within the last 5 or 6 years where, that decisions were made by district personnel. And so I, I know I'm just struggling with, with allowing a workaround. And I understand that there are issues related to if a, but if a parent were to know X, Y, and Z and you're in your and your not going to tell the parent that because you're afraid the child's going to be abused, and why would that, why wouldn't we be just reporting that parent if I mean, and how would you know that the child, how would you know the parent is going to be abusive? I mean,  like,  I, I know this is a let me just say I have a personal experience with having with information withheld for me, as a parent in the district. And I felt that it was completely inappropriate and it scared me.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And this takes this Olympics that this policy eliminates that. Well, but if you have a family that's a very complicated, complex situation that fortunately, I'm not familiar with personally

[R16982-696] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: be abusive? I mean, like, I, I know this is a let me just say I have a personal experience with having with information withheld for me, as a parent in the district. And I felt that it was completely inappropriate and it scared me.
TEXT> And this takes this Olympics that this policy eliminates that. Well, but if you have a family that's a very complicated, complex situation that  fortunately, I'm not familiar with personally and that you might be putting that child in danger.  If a parent asks you a question and you respond and give that information and the parent, there may be a situation that would put that child in harm's way. It doesn't mean you sit back and do nothing, but it just says you don't put a child in danger.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Frank.

[R16982-708] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's that's my only comment.
TEXT> So I think just ensuring so when you know, folks with some comments come back saying, you know, why didn't you let me know that somebody had filed with wife? And it's like if we felt that the child was in danger, we wouldn't necessarily do that. And we're not necessarily mandated to tell somebody that we did that, because chances are the person that we're filing is the person that you would not tell. Right. So it's, you know, it's our duty to report and that's it. It's, you know, and it's, you know, when you tell folks that, it's like, hey, our job is to report the student has said something that is reportable. We don't, you know, judge, we don't do whatever. We just do our due diligence and report. And then another agency takes over from that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But they're situations outside of what you're describing, a personal confidence that someone might share with a counselor or a trusted.

[R16982-761] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (reinstated to the board 11/5/25) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Only but. But. But acknowledging that you're a board member. Yes.
TEXT> So real situation. I was looking at Facebook just before the meeting and people were talking about the released test scores. Yes. And the lack of effort by kids as being one of the prime indicators of what's going on. And I almost commented and said, you know, from my own experience as a testing coordinator and  looking at our data, my thoughts on that, but I said I better not. But then this says that I could if I said, speaking as a former test coordinator.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And I'm not representing the Claremont School.

[R16982-813] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's. That's one thing. Yeah, sure.
TEXT> So. So just add to that we were discussing a student board member. I know it's been in past, and the, the it is recommended that we have a student board member on our board too. So we discuss.
NEXT> Loren Howard: That is does Harrington supposed to appoint.

[R16982-821] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would you mind letting me know what you think of reasonable compensation package for the school clerk would be given, what their duties expanded duties would be. So just to run down next agenda, tuition for middle and elementary middle detector policy discussion. Yes.
TEXT> I wanted, it was on the agenda for last meeting, but a small discussion about bluff doesn't have to be what was, you know, mentioned at the last or on the last agenda, whether or not that's going anywhere but just a discussion about what we're going to do with the building. Winter's coming. I think that'll be important for the public to hear. And then  personally, this is going to be quick and sentimental about it. My teacher died when I was in fourth grade at bluff. And there's a tree on the side of the Bluff School building that was planted for her. And there was a whole nice thing. So I just don't want to see that ripped up and torn out before there's something, whether or not the building sold. I just think it's  significant to a lot of, you know, ex students in the in the area and then a lot of educators who work with Miss Austin. So that's part of the bluff discussion, not the main crux of it. But while I was mentioning love, I thought I mentioned that, yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr..

[R17017-46] Greg Adams | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified); Claremont Cares (onset cli | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to come up to speak?
TEXT> Hi. Greg Adams, Ward three. Good evening, folks and  members of the school board. Keith,  Raymond and I are here tonight representing Claremont Cares, a nonpartisan citizens group dedicated to the improvement and development of our city.  We are proud to announce a major initiative that  we've launched to empower Claremont's youngest learners. We recognize that a strong and vibrant community begins in its schools. And that's why Claremont Cares has mobilized our network of local businesses and individual residents to secure tangible support for our grade schools right here in Claremont.  We're initiating a wide reaching campaign asking community members to donate in two vital areas, one being direct financial contributions.  These funds are intended to be flexible, allowing the schools to address high priority needs identified by principals and staff,  such as classroom technology, specialized learning materials  or program subscriptions. The sports and everything seems to be taken care of well, but there seems to be a little bit of a lack for some of the other areas.  Also, secondly, for new supplies,  we're actively collecting essential supplies  for the classroom and beyond to ensure that every student has the basic tools that they need to succeed in the classroom, regardless of their family's economic situation.
NEXT> Greg Adams: We understand that accepting donations and integrating them in effectively requires careful coordination. To this end, we have already reached out to the principles of the local grade schools to

[R17017-66] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal (onset clipped into neighbouring cluster | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Just make sure I've got nothing here. Tax rate. Moving on to our first discussion and action item. It's the Stevens High School program of studies. Final approval. Mr. Michael Harrington, please.
TEXT> Yeah. Thank you for having me back. Miss Mimi Rhines, help me answer any questions, because, frankly, her and Kyle Wilson working really hard on this.  So part of this kind of came through originally. We  relook at it, as we said, the last meeting, how do we make it as parent, student, user friendly, professional looking as we could? We then I know it's been a passion project for Mr. Madden. We had I had him come in and we kind of went through and asked a lot of questions.  After the meeting,  Arlene came in, sat with the three of us, asked a lot of questions.  I think that we had we had a couple more questions,  updated, and I think they were all updated things  simply about  adding the year to make the clarifying appendix. In the end,  to say that those are simply the, the items that are embedded, the credits that are embedded in other classes from the changes, the 2025 changes to Ed 306.  And as  Heather  noted,  and we put it in the it was the information about the Holocaust,  which was from a law passed in 2020 and then also, I think, expected to be in there in 2022.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: That was already in there. It's not in our appendix because it's just labeled the 2025 changes. The difference is one is an embedded understanding. And this Department of Education,

[R17017-69] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah, I.
TEXT> Was how many students are in  Spanish?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Four and five. Yes. So typically it's about ten. It is not a whole lot. We do not offer Spanish because we do not have a Spanish teacher. We should

[R17017-70] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Was how many students are in Spanish?
TEXT> Four and five. Yes. So  typically  it's about ten. It is not a whole lot. We do not offer Spanish because we do not have a Spanish teacher. We should have one  next year. And  what has happened in the past is you would have if Spanish three was running  the Spanish teacher there would take,  students in that same class give them slightly differentiated work and make that Spanish for Spanish five there.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So Spanish is not offered this year.

[R17017-72] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So Spanish is not offered this year.
TEXT> Not this year. It will be offered for next year, which is what this will be for. Right. So students
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And you have your teacher all in place.

[R17017-78] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff (uncertain — introduced by Principal Herring | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Did the. Reference to summer school come out?
TEXT> No, but it's still in there. We clarified, though, that it is only for students who need to complete,  a class from the school year previously, so it's not a brand. New class.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I'm sorry.

[R17017-84] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: we had full year classes. Just my sense. So I would be supportive of summer school simply because I'd like to see what the result. Because one of the things we hoped was having full year classes, that the failure rate would go down right.
TEXT> And I it's still an adjustment period. There's a model that,  that I would like to do, maybe not in the summer, but the end of every quarter have a very limited chance for people to catch up on the work in that quarter.  And the reason why is if you fail a quarter and second quarter, mathematically, you can get to a point in a classroom. Well, now I can't pass for the year. Why am I going to try? But if it's if we can make it and I'm not sure how we can do it, but in my ideal world, if you can make that mandatory, there'd never be a spot where  students can get to the point where they're now failing for the year and are no longer invested in the class because they can't do anything.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Or eligible for summer school.

[R17017-92] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: It's the. Same thing. Summer school is credit recovery.
TEXT> All right. What I remember is summer school was you went for so many classes during the summer credit recovery students go just to recover that portion to get that credit and then they leave. That's my understanding. Correct. So it's different.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, that's what that was. What was in place.

[R17017-99] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff (uncertain — introduced by Principal Herring | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I was going to point out that it was credit recovery in the past also. Right? Yes.
TEXT> We just use the term summer school because that's what families and students are used to. So it's just the the easier term for people to understand. But it's recovery in summer school. That makes sense.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I was not impressed with summer school. My son had to go to summer school. I think he was there, the benefit of the doubt. But he was there two

[R17017-101] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I was not impressed with summer school. My son had to go to summer school. I think he was there, the benefit of the doubt. But he was there two days.
TEXT> So let me tell you about this and by no means  am I complimenting it.  So the thing is, recovery is prior to,  passing is 70. Okay. And this is by competency, right? If you get a 68 and you failed by two points. All right. The amount that you need to show to get to a 70. And that is what credit recovery is. It is not getting to a 9095. Oh it's just. It's getting to pass. You are recovering that credit and you are showing the competency to 70% to pass. And that is it. So if you  if you had a 68 and you only needed 2% or one competency, that's all you had to do. And  you know, I'm not I won't speak of your son, but that's what there are some people, some students that come in that have far  less than that and have a lot of work to do. There are  a good handful of students that come in and barely miss the mark, and can come in in a day or two for a class or two, show the fact that they have the understandings of those competencies that they missed by 2% and get out of there.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I believe we have a conflict of interest here. You don't want to have people fail. I'd rather see discipline imposed by the principal, the guidance counselor, the teachers, the

[R17017-103] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: have people fail. I'd rather see discipline imposed by the principal, the guidance counselor, the teachers, the parents. I don't think we're getting our bang for the buck with summer school, which I believe it's more social promotion, I would I have a good example.
TEXT> I would say the fact that you have a, a quantitative cutoff that you have to meet in evidence for it negates the  possibility of social promotion. I would also say that I agree with you. Some of the problem here is especially with  freshmen, you know, 14 year old kids, 15 year old kids, they come in and now you're telling them your whole education is now different. Now you have to pass to get credit. Okay.  They don't realize that sometimes until midway through their sophomore year, right? They just don't get it. And you can sit down and explain it to them. So my thought is if we can impose that sooner right now, you have to stay after school.  You know, every night for a couple like two weeks at the end of a quarter and now you have to do it. It will helpfully hold them accountable.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I think that's a great idea.

[R17017-107] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I know some of school.
TEXT> Know if you did that, here's the and here's the and here's the trick. And I believe one you would get the same effect, but realize that you would have to if you didn't fund both of them in one year, then you're going to lose kids because one is for the year previous and one is for the current year. So you would have to fund both of those for a year to be able to do it with fidelity.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: No money, no money, no money.

[R17017-124] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: I believe that is what is in the.
TEXT> And so in the in the program of studies. Is it recovery of credits? Okay. I do think in the past this board has,  been questioned the amount of money that was in summer school funding the budget, I think it was like $30,000. And  and because because students, half of them finish in the first three weeks, then we need we shouldn't fund the whole thing for the whole six weeks. I think this is a future discussion. And I think that's where some of the issue with summer school is. But I think we need to move on.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: To.

[R17017-134] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins.
TEXT> I'm just going to two things I'm going to add to what Miss Crawford has said in terms of the financial piece, and looking at how that can be structured within the summer with within people who were there, the students being at their computers, working, moving out of that, the last page, I'm still coming through page 66. Do you have the names for the title? Nine and five exist. Those are gaps that are in that last page. So. And then I'm done.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: We we did speak about that. We do not currently have people in those positions. Miss Kennedy and I spoke about that today. Yeah.

[R17017-148] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Loren Howard: Thank you.
TEXT> Next item on the agenda is the code Monkey curriculum for elementary school students. And  Miss Christina Swenson.  Mr. Angel, would you like to speak to that first? Okay.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: Thank you. Yeah.

[R17017-155] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: contribution. If our UA teachers did not step up to do this, if they decided to stick strictly to the subjects they are trained in, our students would not receive any formal technology lessons for the first six years of their public education in Claremont.
TEXT> Think about that from kindergarten through fifth grade, half of their entire academic career with us, they would have zero formal instruction on how to use a keyboard, how to navigate a computer, or how to exist safely online. And we would be sending them the middle school completely unprepared. So I want to start by publicly thanking our UA teachers. They are bridging a massive gap for our district, but for a long time we were asking them to bridge that gap without a stable bridge. We asked them to teach a complex, rapidly changing subject without a standardized curriculum with limited training and support. When I arrived in the district in June of 2024, I conducted an audit of how we were supporting these teachers. What I found was concerning because no formal formal curriculum existed, teachers were doing their absolute best to cobble together resources. They established a Google site that had become a long list of links for students to access. They were searching for free typing games or coding activities on the open web. In my audit of these resources, I found that it had become a graveyard for materials that were out of date, broken or not.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: In compliance with data governance laws, both state and federal level. This was not any fault of their own. Technology curriculum and legal obligations was not their realm of expertise.

[R17017-203] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: Code monkey is a program, but it is a full curriculum. I sent the the scope and sequence as well. It has both offline and online lessons. It's not just putting them in front of a.
TEXT> Curriculum director, working with our curriculum director. Our assistant superintendent previously, was there a separate technology curriculum for our education for our elementary school students based on statewide outcomes?
NEXT> Christina Swenson: It was a group of teachers trying to put together something, but it wasn't a formalized scope and sequence curriculum.

[R17017-210] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: program in to meet the outcomes. So when you have a program that is creating those outcomes, it's self-serving and it limits you to this program. Whereas if we have a curriculum, we can look at a variety of programs to plug into that curriculum.
TEXT> Thanks for saying  okay. Yeah. So right now it's if you have a saw six account, which you, you all do,  there is a place where I have put the where to meet, what skills are appropriate for each age, each grade level for our teachers to look at. It also includes,  offline material from Code.org. It also includes more digital citizenship lessons that they can  do with the students  for Digital citizenship. The only thing we haven't included at this point is AI integration, but Code Monkey offers all of these lessons both offline and online, so there are offline components. We also I also provide a library of objects that are related to computer science. And these are offline activities that teachers can check out. Small robotics,  they can check out we have  a thing where they that one, the one student acts as the computer and the other student gives the commands. And that also promotes collaboration and listening skills.  And, and the teachers can check these out. Any teacher can check these out to do in the classroom.  Or our technology teachers have checked it out to do lessons that are offline.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: It sounds like you've offered a lot of opportunity and resources to our teachers, so thank you for that.

[R17017-237] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Who's delivering this? It's in. The A's, the art teachers doing. This and the cooking teacher.
TEXT> So we have at the elementary level, there are five hours a week of UA. So they get an hour of music, get an hour PE, they get an hour of art, they get an hour of library and then that fifth hours technology. So the school population, where they serve every single student in those four hours at every level, that fifth hour is divided amongst these four teachers so that they would have that hour of technology. So this turnkey curriculum has made it easier for my not so techie UI teachers to deliver consistent,  lessons throughout the year.  And when I check in with them weekly, which I try to do when I'm walking around the schools, I get a lot of positive feedback from a majority. We have seven in all between the two schools. I would say six are very happy and the other one is very techie, so she would rather do her own thing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So okay.

[R17017-264] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> And I was. Trying to figure out how many. Licenses I. Needed for Odyssey where. And of course, they were trying to sell me 200 licenses or whatever. And then I realized, because we're using it for our our at that time, our Owls program, that they're only going to be 20 kids on the computer at once. Yes, the potential would be more, but they all wouldn't be on at the same time. So at any given time, it sounds like the most kids that might be using this would be 25.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: But the license isn't in as the license isn't like Odyssey where the license follows that child. You sure? Yes. Okay. Because one of the criteria I used when I

[R17017-265] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: going to be 20 kids on the computer at once. Yes, the potential would be more, but they all wouldn't be on at the same time. So at any given time, it sounds like the most kids that might be using this would be 25.
TEXT> But the license isn't in as the license isn't like Odyssey where the license follows that child. You sure? Yes. Okay. Because one of the criteria I used when I was vetting these for our teachers is will the data, the the  progress data follow that student year after year so that we can see it maybe in three years if we stay with this program where our kindergartners their growth from K through two, or  if we extend it to the middle school, our uppers, what is their growth from six through eight? It was one of those items where their data stays in our system as long as we have the license.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But that's true of Odyssey where as well.

[R17017-310] Unidentified school administrator | Former Bluff Elementary School principal, referred to on the record on | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: updates for that and kind of talk a little bit about what the grant, what's approved, what's not, and we'll we'll get into more specifics in a future meeting to whomever wants to. You probably have the history of it a little bit. And then.
TEXT> So, I mean, we. Got the plan initially approved and then we,   after bluff was  closed, I had to reach out  to Corbett, who works for the state,  and I asked, you know, what we needed to do next? And so then we had to had to just rewrite the plan.   Made made the goals sort of broad so that we can fit a lot of things  into into them to help get money to  the money follows the students, doesn't necessarily go to school, but follows the bluff students in those schools  and just get some targeted supports. I'm trying to remember it's been a few weeks now that I've looked at it.  But we, you know, stuff in there  as far as, higher and higher in some, I'm losing track of,  it was once and for some behavior support, teaching a, having a retired teacher come in and working with newer teachers on classroom management,  our PLCs, getting those up and running,  funding those  so we could run those  after school and funding  teachers to put in time after school  to work on those. And so strengthen the PLCs. We had begun that work sort of at the before everything happened here. But we had taken a team to,  a PLC conference to, to work  and really understand the process  and, and getting teachers to understand what a PLC really is and not, you know, a lot of them have just been renamed team meetings.
NEXT> Unidentified school administrator: But but to go in there with a purpose as to really strengthening up our core instruction, because if we strengthen up the core instruction, then we will need less

[R17017-314] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Unidentified school administrator: So that's just sort of a broad overview.
TEXT> So looking at data meetings, reviewing a lot of the data that goes with the students  supporting their needs. Miss Lewis, if there's anything else that you wanted to interject that's fine. And you don't have to do it now. You can continue on in a moment, too. So the other. Big. Piece of the the plan that,  Dale and his team had put together was really focused on parent engagement as well. And so  Mrs. Kennedy and I were talking with our title One teachers the other day about how to kind of bridge  those roles and how we can use some of that money as well to continue the work of that group and in furthering our parent engagement activities and things like that. So so stay tuned. We have some literacy night that's coming from math nights coming for both schools.  And obviously we'll be on separate nights so we can make sure families can go to both.  And, you know, we have some other activities for staff to engage in  data, you know, meetings and really working, supporting the students. So it's,  we're making the best of the unfortunate situation.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And I think the great thing is there are similarly into schools will come into those in a few moments. So, we are really, you know, looking to make sure

[R17017-315] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: separate nights so we can make sure families can go to both. And, you know, we have some other activities for staff to engage in data, you know, meetings and really working, supporting the students. So it's, we're making the best of the unfortunate situation.
TEXT> And I think the great thing is there are similarly into schools will come into those in a few moments. So,  we are really, you know, looking to make sure that all of the bluff students, you know, don't get forgotten. The state will obviously be monitoring the students. So even though they sit in the other schools for this purpose of this grant, they are tracked through,  where they are at, you know, in their future school right now. So, so shifting on to Claremont Middle Schools, Claremont Middle School is called an additional Targeted Support and improvement plan school  specifically with the identifiers for students with disabilities and students who are receiving free and reduced lunch.  And so those targeted subgroups is an area of focus. And so  Mr.. Net has just inherited that one we just were discussing recently. We both were just made aware of all of the scores where they're at.  It had been in before because it's an additional targeted support. It was a  sigh. It's it continues on. So we need to have a couple of years worth of data that supports all the work that we're doing and showing how to be exiting it. So it won't be exiting for a little bit.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But we're using the the support with this to make sure that our students, you know, again, those subgroups are really making great gains. We're working on some data meetings.

[R17017-320] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Welcome to the club.
TEXT> So  I learned of it a couple of years ago, and then learned you have six years to exit or you moved to a CSI school. So  the amazing staff at Disney Art Elementary School said  that that was not their pleasure and that they were going to dig in and do the hard work. And boy, did they, because this this spring  when we do,  our state testing was our final opportunity to exit that status, and we exited a year early. We exited this past year basically. So  and that is due to some amazing work by staff members,  a lot of hard conversations about what is our tier one instruction look like. We also we were an arts school for our identified population.  And, you know, it's frustrating sometimes to to say to a student who already has a diagnosis, a disability, you've got to sit and take the same test that everybody else does and do equally well with, with the accommodations that, that are most appropriate for you. So some of the things that we did to get there,  we really focused on, let's focus the there's, there's, there's the content and can you manage the test platform. And so while also working on content, we made sure that we embedded, excuse me, a lot of practice items into to routine instruction because it's not necessarily it's not going to come right out and tell you it's not the same.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: It does not match our curriculum programing and how it presents information to students and how it assesses it. And so kids have to get used to a different format,

[R17017-321] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Melissa Lewis: the test platform. And so while also working on content, we made sure that we embedded, excuse me, a lot of practice items into to routine instruction because it's not necessarily it's not going to come right out and tell you it's not the same.
TEXT> It does not match our curriculum programing and how it presents information to students and how it assesses it.  And so kids have to get used to a different format, in all honesty, for the quote state test. And so to put that in front of them  on testing days when they haven't been exposed to it is really unfair, especially to young third graders taking it for the first time. The other group that worked incredibly hard with that piece was our special educators, because typically, again, our special educators are working on very specific IEP goals.  And very specific tier three programing. And they found a way to do the exact same thing. How do we expose our most struggling students sometimes to these high level thinking questions found on the New Hampshire Sass assessment. How do we teach them the test taking skills that go along with that and so on and so forth. So we spent a lot of time really just making sure kids could do the format and understand how to use the tools,  all of those things.  We also went through the accommodations and said which ones are best suited for which students, making sure that we when we had annual IEP meetings, we were really cognizant about making the best matches.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And we this was a hard one sometimes for people. But if I hadn't been using that accommodation all year long, you didn't allow it to be used on the

[R17017-344] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: All the whom were proficient at the site had for three years of my advisor. So do you have access to.
TEXT> They don't do it the same way anymore. They don't release items. They release practice tests, full tests that parents can do with students. We can. I think there's 99 different practice tests for each area. And so that's exactly what teachers are pulling up. So let's say they're doing a unit on decimals to the hundredths place. They'll call through those practice tests. Find a similar problem that's assessing that skill. And just again teach the format of that question.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Because we used to we used to go over approaches, particularly in extracting material out of out of a you have to read something and then compare and contrast. Yeah.

[R17017-353] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Healthy snacks.
TEXT> One year.  We celebrated students for their effort. We always. It's all about effort.  And we talk a lot about what it looks like and sounds like to be a great test taker. Right. Doesn't mean that a test is going to be easy for you. How do you persevere. How do you work through something that's difficult? Mr. Lewis,  provided a barbecue in Monadnock Park to celebrate all of our hard work, and we had some outside fun.  Last year, teachers were,  giving out tickets for,  again, that that good test taking behavior right there. You can tell they're taking their time. You can tell they're reading all the way through the page. They're not just clicking through answers, those kinds of things. And those became raffle tickets.  And the  the Disney PTO was generous enough to to provide some items that were then raffled off. And everybody had all the chance they want to to get in on that based on their test taking behaviors. Wasn't focused on scores anything like that? Because of course, that's we don't have them at that point.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So spoiler alert.

[R17017-361] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: No I understand.
TEXT> That, if  a student feels overwhelmed by the test taking process that was explained to the board at one point because  our scores were being affected, anything over 5% opt out is a zero, and then it gets calculated into the overall score.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We would write an exemption into the 500 for the IEP.

[R17017-367] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal (cluster also catches board-member fragm | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: fantastic at. Especially with the advertising at the high school, when you walk in and you get that giant, picture and wrote of every student who's there, what they're taking, you know, what they want to be. That really does get a lot of interest.
TEXT> I actually even students are like, hey, can we get stuff on that? Like asking me to put stuff on that?  And then also for gaining credit  for each credit. I think a great avenue and a structural changes we're making is that we offer,  sign language, which is a phenomenal avenue for any student.  And a big shout out, say, in a public meeting for Mr.. Who engages these students like no other.  And you watch these students who. And I'm pretty good at sign because I've  taught students who are deaf and hard of hearing before and watching the fluency in which these students get and that they can actually, gain college credit for that. So there's a push to make sure that the students go in there,  get signed up for that credit. Right. And so these are all avenues for us to  increase those specific targeted areas of that subgroup. So.
NEXT> Loren Howard: There's any questions?

[R17017-372] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: region, Kearsarge, New Newport, and Fall Mountain, which is basically our competitive group, we are extremely competitive. And there's this, particularly in that window, and we have extended our pay raises all the way up to grade 17 for bachelor's prepared nurses under 15 years.
TEXT> Where other districts don't do that. So we did identify as well that  teachers you don't get you're not necessarily a better teacher if you get your master's degree.  A good bachelor prepared teacher is a great teacher. And so we also as a district, if we could capture those teachers and keep them here because they would get paid aggressively here, where if they went somewhere else, they would actually either hit their window, their top window, or they just wouldn't progress up the ladder. And we did see a reduction in our turnover, which was good, in an increase in the number of teachers that were considered, you know, profession or  proficient teachers. The next thing we decided we needed to do was help our teachers, because  Stephanie Hurst identified that we had real catastrophic issues in tier one learning. And if anybody is interested, you can go back. And there was an saw six meeting, I think, in April of 2023. It's probably on CCTV where she really goes into detail on where we are and where we should be. As far as kids that are in tier one  and tier one, tier two and tier three and we have kids right now, our district are at the time, the district had 8% of kids in tier one, 63% in tier two and 30% in tier three.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And that should be 70% in tier one, 2020 to 5% in tier two and 5% in tier three. So we are our pyramid is completely inverted. We also discovered

[R17017-380] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Think so. You would think.
TEXT> What I'm saying is that if we're saying that it's a it's the economic and the disadvantaged homes that's holding us back, if you have no difference in growth between kids that come from economically disadvantaged homes and kids that come from non-economic, disadvantaged homes, that says something about what what we're doing and not about our demographics. So. Miss Mr. Sprague and then Miss Crawford.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I want to go back quickly, revisit Stephanie Hurst, her her comments that, because I remember clearly her saying in regard to our special ed rates, that's that special

[R17017-383] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.
TEXT> I think it's also important for the public to hear how important it is for parents to not opt out of the test.  I think that if parents have a question about whether to have the test, whether to have their child take the test, they need to really talk to the educators and and make sure that should really be not an option. I mean, they need to take the test and work with the educators to see how that can can be being done.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford, excuse me, Miss Hawkins. Oh.

[R17017-394] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So that concludes.
TEXT> The report. Again, you did a great job with a good standing as well. And they trickle up to our high school students. So  for the Sass scores. And then we'll continue on with the rest of the report after.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes please.

[R17017-398] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (merged cluster: Madden with Sprague and Herringto | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Next item on our agenda is this is Mr. Madden.
TEXT> Metal detectors. I don't claim to have any special credentials or expertise in metal detectors. Let me read the policy. The board hereby authorize the use of metal detectors on school grounds. Metal detectors may be used when the superintendent as reasonable suspicion to believe that students may be possessing weapons on school grounds, when there has been a history of weapons being found on school grounds, or when violence involving weapons has or is likely to occur on school grounds. Stationary metal detectors or mobile metal detectors may be used  in accordance with procedures approved by the board. Any search of a student and as some kind of typos, a person as a result of the activation of metal detector of a metal detector, will be conducted in accordance with board number 39. I don't think that's a typo again. Policy on personal searches. Students who are caught with weapons on school grounds will be subject to discipline in accordance with applicable board policies. Students may also face criminal penalties for bringing weapons  onto school grounds. This was adopted December 5th, 2007. Specifically with what happened in the past year. If I say something incorrect or I need help, Doctor Harrington, please jump in. Sometimes during the summer, a mobile metal detector. I think you would call that mobile because you can wheel it around.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I think the best is apt. It's absolutely a semi mobile. It's stationary. You can wheel it, but it takes two men to do it.

[R17017-415] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal (cluster also catches board-member fragm | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: culture and the way the school operates currently with privileges with with students coming in and out. And we want to make sure that we are improving but not destroying what we have in place. That's a positive for our students. So am I correct?
TEXT> Yeah, and there are. And one of the things that we discussed,  and I'm going to try to articulate it well, is that this was in response to a very scary, terrifying incident that still affects people today.  And I know that there are things that can mitigate what happened. That is that's outside of  metal detectors, because it does have positive and negative impacts. And the questions that Mr. Madden brings up  are serious.  You know, I think that how things are implemented is incredibly important.  But there are other things in there that can mitigate things. And as I said in the policy committee, I'm outside greeting the students as they come in every single day and sort of the other assistant principals, because a sense of community, a sense of well-being, a sense of belonging goes a very long way. To deter people from any act of violence or harm against a community that they're part of. And that's one thing that we're doing. And there are other things, and there are other things in that realm that I'm sure maybe I don't know about, that we could implement it as well. And that should be looked at. Right. This should this should be looked at the problem as a whole, not just one avenue to avoid it. And that's what I'm advocating. And I think that's where that discussion can go.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So we're going to try to get some more data.

[R17017-422] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff (uncertain — introduced by Principal Herring | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Sure.
TEXT> Yeah. I just I work at Stephens, as you all know, and I was there in the winter. I just want to emphasize how scary it was happening for staff and students like Doctor Harrington said it still does impact us. You know, like it's. Thankfully, no one was hurt. That's the most important thing, but it's really scary. And when we were told we were getting metal detectors, the staff was a little bit relieved at the level of security. And then when they it didn't happen or whatever, they were, some confusion about it. So I just want to say, I appreciate you guys for looking into it and being willing to have them be up, because I do think that extra level is an important thing to have in schools in general these days. So I just want to say thank you for that, but please keep that in your minds as well. Thank you. Yeah. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are we good? Okay. Next item on the agenda is follow ups. And, Miss Kennedy and I chatted this weekend about what the follow ups were. Our technology director position

[R17017-431] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Yes. Mr. Angel on that.
TEXT> The next item was preschool services and and costs. Mr.. Mr. Sprague had brought that up as a concern. I did talk to Mr.. Angel about this. We have limited bandwidth because we're moving into budget season, but it will be on the agenda in either January or February to break down where our contracted services costs are, etc. for our special ed kids, specifically preschool, specifically preschool for this year.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you.

[R17017-444] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Minimum below. Below minimum.
TEXT> They are minimum. They are they are barebones. They are disgusting is my opinion. And to use them  as the standard is ridiculous. And I would hope  I I'm sitting here and I look at that mission statement  on the board and it says every student to achieve academic excellence. And that clearly needs to be addressed in next year's budget.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Madden.

[R17017-533] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Repeat what you just. Said, please?
TEXT> So I think there's a willingness to  look at some certain in an MOU memo of understanding in certain relations of areas. So one of the things that we had discussed is,  those folks who are in like a behavioral program and things.  And is there a possibility to have a differential because they don't get a, you know, big differential. Right now, though, we're looking at letters of agreement and trying to place people into they're sort of stuck in limbo land. They're not in the the Perry Union. They're not in the teacher union. And then we're we're running into areas where we are not so much in violation, but sort of in violation because they're not in a CBA. But at the same time, it's worked around it. And there's been some, I guess, negotiations, if you want to call it, on certain departments, places  where we would like folks to sit in one of the unions. And so, like we all in agreement that it's like they should be some fleece.  There are some outliers that we're still trying to figure out, you know, student services, like related services, they're kind of in no man's land.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Right now to look. At memo use and loss and not salary and benefits. Is that correct?

[R17017-602] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah okay. Thank you. Is there anything additional Miss Crawford from the Finance Committee?
TEXT> I asked for the finance Committee. I asked for something from the Finance Committee. Sure. If it's at all possible to when we're looking at budgets, reconfigurations for different schools, numbers of schools to please include what the difference in cost would be for including pre-K back into a building that's housing elementary, a primary level students. We had quite a conversation here about a year ago, and we said we didn't want to drop it. We just wanted it to be a quality program and reconfiguration was part of that development.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Develop collaboratively.

[R17017-606] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: And the program would be developed collaboratively with a lot of shareholders, whatever. Just well, that's what we said at.
TEXT> The time, I know, but right now I'm looking at the budgetary component and what the difference in cost would be, because we're already providing services to our identified students, and there's a cost for that. What would the additional cost be to house in the building? And then there are people who I'm sure we'd be jump on the bandwagon to develop a better program, collaborative than we had in the past. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Also, just the finance committee meetings are work sessions, so the public is available to attend, but it's there's no public comment at that period of time they can view.

[R17029-16] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: For dues.
TEXT> Included as part of those dues, they they gave us a  an. I'm sorry. I just found the invoice. They gave us an enrollment projection. Okay, okay. Got it. And so it's a ten year enrollment projection. And what they're projecting for next fiscal year or next school year is  1379 students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So, so for 2627.

[R17029-22] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay.
TEXT> So but back to the report in ten years. Nasdaq is estimating,  k 12 to be 1089 students. Okay. So  as part of the model, the school models that I've been  talking to the school board about is,  you can have for school model three school model and a two school model. And at some point when you get down to ten. Sorry. 1089 students, you're really looking at a two school model.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So that's a ten year projection?

[R17029-26] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: Correct. Okay. Okay. Yep.
TEXT> I've also been talking to the school board in the in the way that, if you're going to go to a two school model, what I recommend is,  trying to keep a for school model open for next year so that you can have open space  at one so that at for one of the years, you can actually keep the middle school free of students. So you're going to move the middle school to the high school and then rehab the middle school into an elementary school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. So you're talking about okay.

[R17029-32] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah.
TEXT> And  in my last school district, after ten years, it was like off by 20 students. So it's it's.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Pretty reliable.

[R17029-48] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: But in order for the two school model, there has to be a interim year for a building to get rehabbed to, in fact, go to the two school model.
TEXT> So but in five years, the population count is going to be 1249. So that means you could go you could put 700 kids in the high school and 500 kids in, in the existing middle school and go to a two year, two school model. Right. But the but the problem is the middle school isn't set up for an elementary school. There's certain changes that you have to make. Okay. And I think it's important for the board to walk through these buildings and and the middle school.
NEXT> Unidentified: It needs to be love.

[R17029-50] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Unidentified: It needs to be love.
TEXT> What what kind of a ticket item is good? Well, because if we're if we're really making building a budget on projecting a specific outcome, which is that's what I'm hearing and I'm not disagreeing with that. And I think, quite frankly, this is something that we failed to do. We initiated a,  reconfiguration. We've activated the idea of of reconfiguration on multiple  occasions. I think the first time was in 2020. And for for the reasons that I miss, Crawford stated, is that we recognized as a board that we were having real issues with human resources and that it was impacting our ability to deliver educational services effectively in an a cost effective way.  Both the functional and financial impact of that. But I do want there to be clarity that the purpose of staying at the for school model is predicated on the understanding that that is the that the wisdom of staying in a for school model is that we would be going to a two school model, so there would have to be a community commitment on some level, or  a recognition that that's the value of staying to four schools. That's the only value of staying at four schools is that we're going to be moving to two, and that two would be a financial,  obligation that the community would have to bear, because we would have to reconfigure  the middle school to accept those students and my incorrect or.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Yeah. But can I?

[R17029-163] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: for a preschool as we see it, or preschool services? Preschool services. So I know that that was brought up in the last meeting. I know it's a hot potato, but if I don't ask that question, I'm going to have people mad at me.
TEXT> Sure. We are looking right now with the one preschool classroom model, and then that could be something projected forward.  In my head, I have preschool as a placeholder  in a two, two and then a 3 to 5.  And so right now we're projecting at least one preschool as a possibility for  our. Actual. Classrooms, identified students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: For identified students only as we are providing services today.

[R17029-164] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: then that could be something projected forward. In my head, I have preschool as a placeholder in a two, two and then a 3 to 5. And so right now we're projecting at least one preschool as a possibility for our. Actual. Classrooms, identified students.
TEXT> For identified students only as we are providing services today.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R17029-167] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; presiding member, Finance Subcommittee | 2025-12-10
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: There would be some possibly peer models.
TEXT> Yeah, that's what I was just going to say. If you have a classroom structure for pre-K for students that need it, I think you're required to have  models model students as well. So it can't be.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Just only special education.

[R17029-350] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Matt Angell: And and when you open the grade. All you're doing is just you're moving the. Grades around. Right. And you're. Not. Going to. Get any more efficiencies by it.
TEXT> Equities is the number of students within each class.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right.

[R17029-369] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Matt Angell: And we just move the budget funds from one to another. Which elementary school would remain open?
TEXT> Right now there is a ten student difference between the population. Maple has ten students more than Disney.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R17029-413] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. What else do we need to know in preparation for Friday.
TEXT> So for Friday I'll have to have  once I get the for school model done, pretty much everything is the same. Between the different models, like,  say, for example, supplies is just going to follow the student. Okay. I think I'm going to have problems in trying to break out the supplies by grade. But so I think for between the two models, I'm just going to kind of leave it where it lands.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R17029-422] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Unidentified: Like, yeah.
TEXT> Quite frankly. And, and right now and I don't want Matt to waste any time. So I don't know. Do we have the you know I have a bias here. So I really. So I'm just being honest, I think that we need to really know whether or not we can in the next school year, accommodate the middle school kids at the high school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And that was my question, you know, 15 minutes ago.

[R17029-537] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> To answer that, first, I'm budgeting based upon us maintaining our own bus company. Okay. I'm not going to put in an estimate what I think it's going to be, because I don't know what it would be. All right. So,  but we're we are looking at going out to bid  for, for bussing services that's going to follow that's going to be like in January. Okay. Okay.  I will speak to,  transportation and, and talk about the different,  transportation models, but I don't think they're going to be that much different from what they currently exist from my experience. Okay. However, to answer one of your prior questions.  So. Parents would be concerned that they're going to have to visit two schools, drop off their kids. First thing I'd say to parents are try to use  utilize the bussing service because that's the most efficient method. It saves on space at the schools. However, if they wanted to  drive their students, what we should look at are  before and after school  opportunities. Like we we contracted with the with the YMCA that offered that program for us. And then we also provided a school bus that went between the schools so the parents could. Drop off kids at one school, right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And they drop off in the morning. And whether the kid goes to two school, two kids go to two schools, one drop off.

[R17029-538] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; presiding member, Finance Subcommittee | 2025-12-10
PREV> Matt Angell: are before and after school opportunities. Like we we contracted with the with the YMCA that offered that program for us. And then we also provided a school bus that went between the schools so the parents could. Drop off kids at one school, right.
TEXT> And they drop off in the morning. And whether the kid goes to two school, two kids go to two schools, one drop off.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And for the parents, right?

[R17029-557] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: If there's no.
TEXT> I guess for me, the real thing would be being getting granular down on if the three school model about how we would provide the courses. For the middle school students without you know, what the, what the course impact would be. Well the benefit would be.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think if we would go to the three school model, parents are going to want to know seventh and eighth grade. Interactions with the high schools and how do

[R17029-558] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; presiding member, Finance Subcommittee | 2025-12-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: for me, the real thing would be being getting granular down on if the three school model about how we would provide the courses. For the middle school students without you know, what the, what the course impact would be. Well the benefit would be.
TEXT> I think if we would go to the three school model, parents are going to want to know seventh and eighth grade.  Interactions with the high schools and how do you, how do you separate the seventh and eighth grade in the building from the rest of that? Is that possible? And how much interaction? Do you have with the older kids? That's going to be a question.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I will say we met on Monday with the superintendents Council and we discussed a few things. We talked briefly about the fact that there would be, you know, a

[R17037-152] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Matt Angell: Well, I put in the superintendent. Yeah. The business administrator. Yeah. An accountant and AP payroll clerk. Let's see. HR manager? Yeah. HR coordinator. Special ed director.
TEXT> Student services director.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Director. Assistant. Student services. Director to admin assistants for special ed. And then an admin assistant for the superintendent and an admin assistant for grants and curriculum. And then a

[R17037-153] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: Student services director.
TEXT> Director. Assistant. Student services. Director to admin assistants for special ed. And then an admin assistant for the superintendent and an admin assistant for  grants and curriculum. And then a grants curriculum director.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Curriculum. And how does that correlate to what her current model. Although it's not staffed. What was in the budget?

