[R8706-202] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: It's me to the question.
TEXT> So is it can I completely prove it? No, but you have 94% of your first graders in Claremont on grade level. Based on this assessment, at the start of first grade, if you notice some of the upper grades, you don't see that number the same. And I think that we have the opportunity right now to capitalize on that. We started them off on the right foot with full day kindergarten. We worked hard and provided additional support for our kindergarten students last year to make sure we got them to where they needed to be, because it's a lot easier to get them where they need to be than it is trying to close those gaps later on, and takes much fewer resources to get them where they need to be earlier than trying to close them and catch them up later on. And you can see that in the first grade data, and you can see that our data in the earliest years are very good right now.  Is it perfect? No, it's not perfect, but  I'm good with that being our start, that being our baseline and improving from there. And what I want to be able to see is that first grade cohort as they move up through maintain that or increase that and then see the grades that are behind them fill in with similar or better results.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And that's what we're hoping to do here. And this is an opportunity for us to see that visually in your packets. I included the the data from all of

[R8706-205] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: So it's been a little bit of adjusting to a new teaching style for some folks of how do we, how do we arrange our classroom structures differently so that we can allow for students to, to access the online component and maximize our learning?
TEXT> So there's been some supports needed with that. And then the last is to share the data for individual students with parents at parent teacher conferences, which are coming up in about two weeks. November. November 7th. And so in your packet also, you'll see what a sample parent report looks like and how comprehensive it is because it tells parents where their student is at now, what they're ready to learn next, how and how parents can support them at home. And then in terms of mid-year, just some expectations will be analyzing student growth. So when we complete the mid-year assessment in January, we will then have growth data to look at because we'll have the fall  and then we'll now have the winter. And to see if students progressed as we think that they should have or were projected to, we'll be able to look at how we implemented the assessment and how we're implementing the instructional component to make any adjustments if we need to be on feedback from both teachers and  students,  continue to adjust instruction based on that mid-year data to, you know, using that data to inform teacher instruction and then measure our progress
NEXT> Cory LeClair: against our academic achievement goals. All of this, I think we've talked about it a couple of board meetings ago, that we have academic achievement goals across the SA now,

[R8706-206] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: we're implementing the instructional component to make any adjustments if we need to be on feedback from both teachers and students, continue to adjust instruction based on that mid-year data to, you know, using that data to inform teacher instruction and then measure our progress
TEXT> against our academic achievement goals.  All of this, I think we've talked about it a couple of board meetings ago, that we have academic achievement goals across the SA now,  and they're posted on the website. Every school page has the goals posted with a a fairly significant icon, and you can see what those are.  And I read is a big component of that as their tool for how we measure our progress. And so we'll be able to look at that at the midyear point. One of the main differences with I ready versus some other programs we looked at and the program we had, is that it gives information at the skill level specific to an individual child, and helps us drill down to that really small, you know, maneuver  level to be able to support kids. The old program, we had sort of gave you a list of 50 items and said kids knew about half of them didn't tell you which ones they knew, didn't tell you which ones they didn't know, and you sort of had to figure it out. So that was very time intensive for teachers and not necessarily  able to efficiently and effectively influence instruction.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And this this does things differently. It's much easier for teachers, much faster for them to access. And, and I think we'll see the benefit of that down the road.

[R8706-219] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: in software for a period of time, it frees up the teacher to work with all students and not only, not only the same kids over and over again. It's better. It's better than worksheets. It's better than. Oh, you're a really high flying kid.
TEXT> Why don't you work with this student who's really struggling and help them out? It's. It's a better option than that. Is it the solution to everything? No, but it's a it's a better option than what we've had in the past. This is our first year with it. We're going to get better as we go.  And I think that you're going to see more students engaged in real life learning with feedback, more of the time.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: On this. And this is neat because it sort of connects to their the technology it does. And, you know, the kids have technology classes and.

[R8706-226] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him as 'Frank',  | 2016-10-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anybody else have a question? Go for it.
TEXT> So and Rich, any chance that ultimately this could be our growth indicator. So potential that this would be  how we would document our, our growth in kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Could be. Could be.

[R8706-232] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: certain areas in there like how we we can learn where, you know, where. Yeah. Yeah. They can be those can be can be broad categories. Where I guess for targeting where, where, where to work as a learner because I, you know, I'm familiar.
TEXT> With broad categories and it goes beyond just the category. It goes down to the skill level, which did not do. And so you may not see that specifically in your reports here. Okay. But it does  provide that for individual students and says what they, what they,  struggle with, what they know, what they're ready to learn next at the skill level.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So is there is there a way? Yeah. It's interesting. I like to look to.

[R8706-241] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: like to see some maybe some of the 10th grade, a couple of 10th grades and in a first grade, more of a a few others just so we can get a, the public can get a sense of what the assessment, the skills that.
TEXT> I think I can show you in 11th grade, without taking the assessment myself.  I don't know if I can get you the screenshots of. Of those questions because they're in front of a student. So the, the company can show you sort of snapshots of what questions look like. Yeah, I'll think about if there's a way I can do it.  Maybe we can get them to give us a, like, a fake account or something so we can see what those questions look like. I know there was a I believe there's an 11th grade example that I could pull, but. Yeah, to see the upper grades.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah. Yes.

[R8706-248] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: So yeah. So I'm more throwing it out there for something to think about is I don't have those answers either. I'm just wondering.
TEXT> Well, clearly this is a this is a work in progress. But a couple of things come to mind. One is, we're going to grow with this. We're going to be transparent with the community and let them see what their children are doing  and what we are doing in response to that. And I think the other thing is this is one one example of what happened, four years ago when the community made an investment in technology because four years ago this would not be possible if I already was. Now we have the technological capability  of going to that next level. And with I ready and the feedback, as Corey is explaining,  the community will see it, the board will see it, and most importantly, the teachers with the information and the students with the information can move forward at a very different level.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Oh yeah, I and I've, I've seen the classroom not with this, but with, you know, just having something at like Alex, which is you know, it's similar the, the

[R8706-249] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent and chair address 'Patri | 2016-10-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: next level. And with I ready and the feedback, as Corey is explaining, the community will see it, the board will see it, and most importantly, the teachers with the information and the students with the information can move forward at a very different level.
TEXT> Oh yeah,  I and I've, I've  seen the classroom not with this, but with, you know, just having something at like Alex, which is you know, it's similar the, the it it really allows the teacher and the students have so many more opportunities to kind of work together and, and for teachers to be able to, to work with certain students because students really are able to kind of work independently. And we had, you know, we had one student there was like a fifth grader. It was like he was yeah, he was pushing to that the that eighth grade level and beyond. But he was able to do that and it, it really it really gives opportunities for the teacher to work with students in small groups individually. And, and so I think that's a great thing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think what's important about this is that we've moved away from these assessments or the these standardized tests that is just there to basically test a snapshot in time.

[R8706-250] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-10-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: pushing to that the that eighth grade level and beyond. But he was able to do that and it, it really it really gives opportunities for the teacher to work with students in small groups individually. And, and so I think that's a great thing.
TEXT> I think what's important about this is that we've moved away from these assessments or the these standardized tests that is just there to basically test a snapshot in time. And it's useless when we get the information right. It's we get it. Far too late. The child is basically almost out of grade. You know, we're moving into something that is it's an assessment, but it's also a tool to help with instruction. Yeah. And it's it's it's really a breath of fresh air.  And I, I just I think it's a great job. And thank you for moving to, to this, this this seems very promising to me.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[R8706-253] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent and chair address 'Patri | 2016-10-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah.
TEXT> You know,  and I have to say even like with the, the reading, the reading programs and the vocabulary, it's I think it, it allows a lot more kind of options sometimes than when, you know, past teachers would just kind of have solid reading. They could work with other students, but and that might.
NEXT> Unidentified: Manage them. Managerial Li.

[R8706-255] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Unidentified: Manage them. Managerial Li.
TEXT> If that's a word, because of classroom management issues, that's what you would need to do, right? So because, you know, if you wanted to work with just a small group of kids and you're the only one in your classroom. What are you supposed to do with the other 18 of them or 15 of them? And so,  this doesn't solve that completely, but gives another viable option, right in the classroom for students to be working on something that is engaging to them and meets them at their level, whether they are on grade level, above grade level or below grade level, it meets them where they are. And that's that's why it's, I think, exciting and I and I'm looking forward to what we'll see over time.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you.

[R8706-335] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you.
TEXT> So before you are thank you.  Our six policies that are before you as as a second read access to minutes and public records,  student transportation services, videos and audio recording of school property, food service management, patriotic exercises, and change of school or assignment. And there is a cover letter explaining the changes to each one of these policies. Coming from the record, coming mostly from legislature legislative action that has occurred in the past year, not some of the changes are are difficult to notice, but they're there. And it's important that we try to stay on top and revise our policies accordingly. The video and audio recording on school property  that was about a year old, but the New Hampshire School Board Association said, wait, that's got to go back. Because even though it's law, the the author of this legislation said, that's not what I meant. It took another life. So we put a hold on it, but now it's been corrected.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: We want.

[R8706-357] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him as 'Frank',  | 2016-10-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Yes, yes. Thank you.
TEXT> So what can I bring a question for on the bussing one, one of the things that when I was an administrator that I would and I want to get clarification in, I think it's just the way that this is formatted maybe. Okay, but often I would get phone calls, due to emergencies or whatever, for permission to  allow a student to ride on a bus that they normally wouldn't ride on. And so if I look at page one and page two, there's a page break there and there's a sentence hanging out there all by itself that says students may only ride their assigned busses. And I don't know if that's associated with the next paragraph, which does say that request for transportation to a bus stop other than the student's home address will be allowed by the student, by the principal. And so I used to write notes allowing that, but it did include sometimes them being on a different bus. So I don't know if I'm not sure if if this sent language at the top of page two supersedes that sentence, it's hanging out there at the page of at the end of sentence on page.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So let me the history of it is simply this that that's a mistake. I took the recommendation of the New Hampshire School Board Association there, and I blended in

[R8706-358] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: include sometimes them being on a different bus. So I don't know if I'm not sure if if this sent language at the top of page two supersedes that sentence, it's hanging out there at the page of at the end of sentence on page.
TEXT> So let me the history of it is simply this that that's a mistake. I took the recommendation of the New Hampshire School Board Association there, and I blended in our policy, which was which was revised less than a year ago, if I recall. And basically, it's this way, we are obligated legally to transport students a certain distance away from school to school, from their home and to their home. We're not obligated, however, to be a taxi service or a bus service. And it's not that I'm trying to be difficult, but when we start allowing a protocol where we can, certainly Mr. Sprague will put your son on this bus because you'd ask. There is a risk of certain requests being  not completed or a mistake being made. And I've experienced that in my prayer district where a kindergarten student was dropped off at the wrong stop because the message did not get to from the secretary to the bus driver. So it's not that we're trying to be uncooperative, but rather if there's a mistake, then that child not going to their normal bus stop and certain things aren't in place for that child, there's a risk factor. So that's the mindset.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is this a misprint then should only be not up to page. Top of page two.

[R8706-363] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (asked 'How did you get that, Chris? | 2016-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Will not be allowed?
TEXT> Request for transportation other than the student home address will only be allowed if approved. The unless is I think is what's throwing it off. Yeah. Just say if approved by the school principal. Or is it. I don't fix the problem. It's kind of being redundant, but I see where you're going with having that separate sentence on page one. That kind of but and redundant.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I still discourage the principals and lets it something that there is some grayness here, but I still discovers the principals from, from welcoming that because you get 3 or

[R8706-368] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' seg 131; 'does th | 2016-10-19
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah, I'm.
TEXT> Concerned about that only for one reason. There's lots of single parents and they send their kids on a. On a bus to the dad's house or their mom's house, which is different, which is has been kind of a almost maybe even a leisure maybe or or a help or whatever. But shouldn't we be checking into,  you know, okay, if you give approval for a child, which child gets to go? I mean. Usually you got parents that live in two separate areas, and one week there was one parent and there's a lot of that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There was a lot of that. I'm just concerned about a mistake being made and a child being dropped off where the child is not expected to be dropped off.

[R8706-369] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Michelle Pierce: shouldn't we be checking into, you know, okay, if you give approval for a child, which child gets to go? I mean. Usually you got parents that live in two separate areas, and one week there was one parent and there's a lot of that.
TEXT> There was a lot of that. I'm just concerned about a mistake being made and a child being dropped off where the child is not expected to be dropped off.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is.

[R8706-371] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: So is.
TEXT> Is the. If a child is getting picked up from one place and brought to school,  but every day they get dropped off at their grandma, their grandparents house.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's something different. That's something different.

[R8706-382] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: So so what should it say? Middleton. Because it's not worded correctly. So what would you like it to say?
TEXT> Students may only ride their assigned busses, but on the second page, which got by me, Frank, when I was cutting and pasting, parents may not ask a bus driver to adjust their child's bus stop request for transportation to a bus stop other than the student's home address will only be allowed and or permitted wording would be by the school principal.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay.

[R8706-392] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: By a parent.
TEXT> But children, we have some children at whatever elementary schools that when they're picked up at their elementary school, at the end of the day, they go to another elementary school  for a program after school where that program is held. So that's something that would be worked through the parent and through the principal and through the bus service.
NEXT> Chris Irish: The Frank's point, I think we should add then it should say, other than home address will only be allowed if requested by a parent and approved by the school

[R8706-395] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent and chair address 'Patri | 2016-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Middleton doesn't want this thing to just be whimsical, and I don't blame you.
TEXT> For that. It I I've seen where it can get really messy, especially when yes student to students decided they want to if they're doing a sleepover it it's and if the principals  there and trying to it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Says their designated.

[R8732-23] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-02
PREV> Cory LeClair: At 120.
TEXT> 145. So congrats. Great. Great job team. And  sorry if I took some of your Thunder student rep.
NEXT> Marion: To add off what Brian Rapp said. The football team will be playing this Saturday at Barnes at seven, and that's the first round of playoffs. More from Stevens. For

[R8732-24] Marion | Student representative to the board (named 'Marion' by the superintend | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: 145. So congrats. Great. Great job team. And sorry if I took some of your Thunder student rep.
TEXT> To add off what Brian Rapp said. The football team will be playing this Saturday at Barnes at seven, and that's the first round of playoffs.  More from Stevens. For sugar River Valley technical teachers and for shows, academic teachers began intensive professional development on Monday, October 31st, to integrate academic skills into the CTE content areas and investigate the viability of offering CTE based technical, math and language arts classes. The training provided by Southern Region Education Board focuses on project board  or project based learning strategies to deliver critical and higher order thinking skills to students in the context of CTE curriculum. The staff attending this training are Pete Furlan, Mr.. Mr.. Morton, Scott Pope and Mr.. Schneid, Sandra Hardin,  Amanda Parker who are both English teachers, and Julia  young and Rick Johnson, which is math. Nearly 50 key club members took part last night in our annual Unicef fundraiser, for which is the maternal tetanus disease that we do every year. Partnered with the ones last night instead of asking for candy will actually, this is Monday night.
NEXT> Marion: They solicited funds to help eradicate this deadly disease. It's called the Lemonade Project. We should be proud of these kids and all they do. A student survey was sent

[R8732-27] Marion | Student representative to the board (named 'Marion' by the superintend | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: prepared a portfolio of their work goals, assessment scores, etc. students attend with their parents and lead the conference. Eighth grade is holding a bake sale on Election Day in the lobby of CMS gym. This is to raise money for their service Learning project.
TEXT> The Serving Service Learning Project is focused on learning about foster care system. They also recently held a panel discussion with the community members to learn more about the foster care system. The money raised from the bake sale is going to help by supplies for children who are placed in foster care. CMF students are participating in a mock election. We'll see if our results are in line with our state and the rest of the company. Stay tuned. We are encouraging volunteers in our school. Volunteers are needed in different classes, for projects and especially in the family consumer science. If you could get the word out, that would be great. Some CMS teachers are reading a book called The Fundamental Five. We are focusing on five instructional strategies that will improve instruction. We are using staff meeting time to offer additional training. We are gathering walkthrough data to guide our imputation and offer additional coaching for teachers. Our goal is to improve instruction as well as to have common language with regard to expectations for the teachers. The implementation of these data will also provide consistency for students, as they will go from one teacher to the next.
NEXT> Marion: We have started our wind block, where we are using ready data to group students who share similar needs. There is an online component that students are using that provides

[R8732-30] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: was on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. And it was amazing. And so they put in a lot of hard work. And so it was really nice to see all the support from the community who went to go out and see it. So thank you.
TEXT> Great. Thank you. Any questions? Thank you for that. Did you hear about the assembly at Maple Ave today? Oh, Mr..  Mr.. Cherry, I guess all out publicly now as a bills fan. So  whenever. Oh, you as well. Oh,  okay. Forgot about that. Well,  he likes to announce over the intercom system that the bills are going to beat the Patriots. And of course, there's a little bit of a rivalry going on.  The the the friendly wager was that if  if the bills one, he would get to throw a pie and  six teachers faces. And if the Patriots won six students get to got to throw a pie in his face. So the assembly today was  for Mr. Cherry to receive his pies.  So he was a good sport. But it was also a lot of fun. And  it's good to see the Maple have family.  It's taking part and stuff like that. That's fun.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So to share.

[R8732-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: at that student attendance at Stevens High School will be no less than 93% as of right now. As of today, it's about 92%. So we're working toward that goal. And of course, the real goal is to exceed that. And last but not least.
TEXT> The fourth academic achievement goal, which we'll talk about throughout the year. The 75% of Steven High School students will apply, be accepted to a post-secondary institution. In 75% of Stevens High School, students will attend a post secondary institution. Now, the reason I'm revisiting this with you is that last Friday at the New Hampshire School Administrators Association meeting, we meet once a month  as a group and the Commissioner of Education and members of the Department of Education  are there. And there were some comments made that I'd like to share with you  that really talks about the importance of what we are doing in Claremont and our goals. And it was almost as if this was being presented about our goals, even though it wasn't, but it was to me. It got me quite excited and I shared it with the principals. Today, 99% of all jobs created after the 2008 financial recession. Required post-secondary training. High school is important. The skill set is very important. But what's also important is that students are prepared to be eligible for post-secondary training. 99% of the jobs since 2008 require.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Post-secondary training. Another is preparing students for meaningful post-secondary opportunities is critical. It was made very clear. High school is important, but it's the foundation for additional training. And last

[R8732-71] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Michelle Pierce, Ward one' seg | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Christian Academy. The two.
TEXT> Yeah, there's a total of eight trees that will be out there. So everyone has their own tree, including the up here. And so we're really excited. And in the center this year for the gazebo. Last year we chose to put the senior citizens there, and we took children to the senior citizen home and helped them make the ordinance with them. Those ornaments then got hung on the tree that was in the center of the gazebo. This year is going to be the homeless tree. It is a tree that will be set there, and there will be some tags on that tree. And at certain times you can contact myself or someone else if you'd like to donate a gift to the tree. They will be collected and then distributed right before Christmas.  The heart of Claremont is in our second year of doing this. Last year we did a pretty tight budget, but we did it and we followed suit and we thanked everyone. Last year was so awesome. This year we're having a couple more contests.  The Christmas tree contest, again with the tomato trees. Really excited to see who can do that. So think of teams if you want to get teams together. The race car drivers, you know, get your teams together and come on in and join the fun.  And if anyone wants to contact me, they can contact me through the heart of Claremont. Question.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any other questions? Thanks. Thank you.

[R8732-106] Mike Siri | Candidate for the board vacancy, retired Stevens math teacher (self-ID | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah. Please introduce yourself.
TEXT> Sure. I'm mike. Siri.  I have been a resident of Claremont since 1988.  My original plan was to work here for three years and then move out, but, that never happened because I really, really love this place.  Up until this past June,  I have  taught in the Claremont schools since that time.  Middle and high school.  With the exception of seven years in which I was a principal, two years at Orion House and five years at the Unity School,  I have been here teaching. I got back into teaching because. I can handle any child in the world. There were a few adults that just really bothered me. So I tried.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Really hard.

[R8732-116] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (says 'when I was the principal of Steve | 2016-11-02
PREV> Mike Siri: obviously, you reach point where, you know, people are just going to say, no, forget it. You know, we can't possibly afford that. But I think we need to start looking at other ways that we can get a little more out of our buck.
TEXT> So preparing students for college or and giving them the tools to compete in today's job market are one of our top priorities. What do you do to increase and improve student readiness?
NEXT> Mike Siri: Well, I think it has to start very early, for one thing. And again, I'm probably going to talk a lot about the subject that I taught, especially, but I

[R8732-167] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - identified by the busin | 2016-11-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So preparing.
TEXT> Students for college and or giving them the tools to compete in today's job markets. One of our top priorities. What would you do to increase and improve student readiness?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Well, I think I would work with the board to take a look at our policies and procedures. One of the things I think is important that we work as

[R8732-186] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Michelle Pierce, Ward one' seg | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, yes. I just wanted to. So how.
TEXT> Did you choose Claremont over everywhere else in New England? Number one and number two, the the golden hour is really important to me. And it sounds like it might be to you too. And I and I can tell you that just in my experience, over the last few months of being on the school board, I've noticed it takes up a lot of your time. So you you would lose  a lot of time, you know, potentially with your children, especially during no coaching. It seems  we're  away more. So how how do you.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Yeah, I focus on quality time. I do, and sometimes that's gotta supersede quality or quantity. Right. So when we have a weekend together we do activities together. So those

[R8732-187] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Michelle Pierce: of being on the school board, I've noticed it takes up a lot of your time. So you you would lose a lot of time, you know, potentially with your children, especially during no coaching. It seems we're away more. So how how do you.
TEXT> Yeah, I focus on quality time. I do, and sometimes that's gotta supersede quality or quantity. Right. So when we have a weekend together we do activities together. So those are important to me. My kids are important to me. I want to be an active and engaged parent. That's important to me. So you got to find that balance between it all. And it's not easy. Now the first part of your question again.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: How did you find Claremont?

[R8732-189] Alex Herzog | Candidate for the board vacancy, appointed and sworn in as Claremont S | 2016-11-02
PREV> Michelle Pierce: How did you find Claremont?
TEXT> Okay. How did I find Claremont? I was lucky, I suppose, when this position opened up, I had looked around at other positions as well, and I really wanted to be closer to where I grew up so my kids could get that experience in New England area.  I mean, this was this fall was I know we were short on water, but it was still gorgeous. If you ever tried to pick apples in Las Vegas, you'd understand the difference.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're a.

[R8732-209] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Marion: Someone should.
TEXT> Just give me a white towel. I'll throw it in right now. Am I just going to introduce myself really quickly? My name is Rebecca Zullo. I've met most of you before.  One time. I've lived in Claremont for 20 years now, and I only know that because my oldest son is 21,  so, I've been here a long time. I am a mom of four. And I think that's important to share, because if you ever see me in public and my hair is standing straight up, you'll know why. I also have a husband who I call my fifth child. I have four dogs, a million  chickens, and, a fish. So I just want to promise you I am resilient, so I might want to throw the towel in now, but I'm going to stick with it anyway. I worked for Claremont School District for many, many years. In the last two I haven't been here, but I miss everybody terribly. Is there anything else you want me to say?
NEXT> Unidentified: No.

[R8732-214] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Chris Irish: What do you believe to be the most pressing problems facing the Claremont School District?
TEXT> Do I have to limit it to one? Can I share a few? And I don't mean that in a bad way. I think that not. I think I really appreciate what you said earlier, Mr. McGowan, about. We have way more to do. And I get frustrated because I feel like, And I've seen a lot of emphasis be put on reading, writing, math, you know, all of the academic things. But I feel like we're really missing an opportunity to, Help the whole child help help the whole person. And, I mean, I know we talk about things like meeting kids, basic needs. I know we talk about things like the economy. I know we talk about things like behavior, but I personally don't feel like we're doing enough to address those things. We have kids who aren't eating. We all know that they're coming to school hungry, and we're feeding them, but we're not thinking about maybe, you know, they didn't have a blanket last night, so we're we're feeding them, and then we're expecting them to learn. And I feel like there's way, more to that. We have parents who are working. I don't mean to keep blabbing, but I just feel passionate.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: We have parents who are are working, two jobs and, you know, their kids don't have time to get outside and play. And if you're not playing, I'm occupational therapy.

[R8732-215] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: they didn't have a blanket last night, so we're we're feeding them, and then we're expecting them to learn. And I feel like there's way, more to that. We have parents who are working. I don't mean to keep blabbing, but I just feel passionate.
TEXT> We have parents who are are working,  two jobs and, you know, their kids don't have time to get outside and play. And if you're not playing, I'm occupational therapy. If you're not playing, you're not building your core muscles. If you're not building your core muscles,  you're not moving your arms, you're not getting your right in your left brain to work together. And when those things don't work together, you can't be asked to do something that you're not even developmentally there for. And then when that happens, you're required to take a test, a standardized test. But what if your brain isn't even at the same level of the grade of the test that you're taking, if that makes any sense? I think there's a lot more, that we as a district in, as parents and as community members need to look at than just feeding the kid. We need to feed the kid, but we also need to think about ways to incorporate, different strategies that go beyond, reading, writing, math, all of those things into the school day. And I think that people are trying now, but I also think we can do better. I have high expectations in that aspect, if that makes any sense. Did I answer your question right?
NEXT> Unidentified: She did.

[R8732-217] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (says 'when I was the principal of Steve | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: She did.
TEXT> My question was about readiness for improved student readiness. But I think you've addressed some of that, at least their emotional and physical needs.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I could go on and on and on about that for hours, I really could.

[R8732-222] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm more interested in what you think.
TEXT> I think that in order to support support kids, I could go on for hours about this too. I'm sorry, but I think to support kids academic needs, you need to meet the basic needs. You can't be asking them to, take a test on reading if they have visual perceptual deficits and then expect them to score well on their reading portion of it. You can't expect them to be doing great at at multiplication if they haven't even mastered their math, and I mean their addition and subtraction facts. I mean, I think that a lot of times we're asking kids to skip over and move faster through some of the basic concepts that most of us probably had, and their brains aren't even ready to start attacking. Like I said, multiplication, if you don't know, addition and subtraction is going to be extremely challenging. And I and I could go on and on with a million different scenarios. It's the same thing for reading. It's the same thing for writing. You know, we're expecting kids to come up with these awesome sentences and use critical thinking and use their brains and go outside of the box.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: But what if they, can't hold their pencil correctly? What if they don't have the strength to hold their pencil? So not only are they trying to get their thought

[R8732-223] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: and on with a million different scenarios. It's the same thing for reading. It's the same thing for writing. You know, we're expecting kids to come up with these awesome sentences and use critical thinking and use their brains and go outside of the box.
TEXT> But what if they,  can't hold their pencil correctly? What if they don't have the strength to hold their pencil? So not only are they trying to get their thought from the from their brain to the paper, they're working extra hard at holding the pencil. And then it's a time test, you know, and it's a whole bunch of things. And I think that we as a community and, and even as a nation and whole  on the whole, have really lost sight of all those other things that are required of kids to actually be able to learn. I could talk yourself about that too, for a really long time. So if anyone ever wants to chat, come find me.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: What would you do as a school board member to strengthen. Parental involvement in the Claremont School District?

[R8732-225] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brent Ferland: What would you do as a school board member to strengthen. Parental involvement in the Claremont School District?
TEXT> To strengthen parental involvement? I think that I would probably try and be more open minded and empathetic  and understanding to the things that they have to go to. I mean, I know myself as a as a parent in a community member. It's extremely challenging for me to even have come to a school board meeting. As passionate as as I am about my children, I think that, the more we can reach out and the more we can validate why it's so difficult for them to be involved, whether we agree with it or not, the more we can, Let them know that we care about them. I know it sounds extremely mushy, but but the more you can let people know you care about them, the more inclined they are to be able to rearrange their schedules, to come to a meeting about the community, or to come talk about their kids, excelling in school or to come talk about new daycares or whatever it is. But if people don't feel like they're really valued, they're not going to come talk to any of us, honestly. I know I wouldn't.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So what do you see as the school board's role and responsibilities? In in the effective administration of the schools.

[R8732-229] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Rolling or roll? Yeah, the school board's role and responsibilities.
TEXT> It's not going to make any friends on this one. Probably. I see your roles as what you're doing now. I really like that. You know, you guys share information. I like that you guys discuss information. I like that you guys, focus a lot on the the positives and the initiatives, but I also think it's the school board's role to, at some point, start looking at the bigger picture, the the whole child, the whole district. I think it's the school board's role to, dig deeper and learn more about staff and learn more about what their fears are, and learn more about what they really think is going well and what they really think isn't going well. I think it's the school board's responsibility to somehow figure out a way how to bridge the gap between the communication and maybe, figure out a way how to get more people here, figure out a way how to listen to people when they do come here, figure out a way how to just, validate fears and concerns, whether you believe them or not.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think I think the school board has a huge role, and it reminds me almost of parenting. Like you're you're expected to be the everything to everybody. And, it's

[R8732-243] Rebecca Zullo | Candidate for the board vacancy (self-ID 'My name is Rebecca Zullo' se | 2016-11-02
PREV> Chris Irish: What is your vision for the Claremont School District five years from now?
TEXT> My vision would be that teachers would be trained in behavior management.  More than what they are now. I think that the not. I think I know that the future of this country is going more towards behavior, more towards, I mean, look at how many kids have diagnoses now. Like, we need to start training our staff. It's important you're going to hate me for this. It's important to be training our staff on new curriculum and the new federal guidelines and the new mandates and all of that. But if if a teacher doesn't know how to keep a kiddo in her classroom to even give them the information,  what's the point of being trained on how to teach them how to read? So I think that not, I think I would love to see the future of this district be more training for educators on. And I'm not talking about CPI, I'm talking about real behavioral training, Ros green trainings, learning more about poverty. We did a lot with that back in the day. And I think it really needs to come back because you learn something and then it goes away and you stop thinking about it. And it's really important to refresh on so many things.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's important for this community to, put initiatives in place, like, I know we have free breakfast and all of that, but I think it's important, again, to

[R8732-288] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And I just wish we had more student voices here. Well, we're hearing a lot of student voices through Marion, but I wish we had the opportunity to involve them more. And hopefully one day we will do that. But I don't think it's an issue at all.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Perfect.

[R8732-378] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, I believe. The form.
TEXT> The budget is self-explanatory. The form we've been advertising quite a bit. And, really looking forward to a good turnout. One of the critical steps in developing a long range strategic plan for a district is to gather from community members. And so these community members of people who have children, people who are invested in the Claremont community. This strategic plan, this five year plan of excellence is not only about the Claremont School District, it really is about the district and the city of Claremont. And I look forward to that discussion tomorrow and listening and learning from our community members, if I may.  Mr. chairman, may I make a request to discuss the 20 1617 school calendar?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, please.

[R8732-394] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (thanked as 'Corey' seg 313; superinte | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: No pressure.
TEXT> That's a great question. And, I think that we can still disperse the parent reports at that time. The parent reports with the eye ready program are much more  user friendly and, easy to understand than the repair reports were with the NWA program that we had. Will our teachers be able to speak to them robustly at that time? Not necessarily, but it's a good opportunity for us to get those in the hands of parents directly.  And and then following the training, we can always follow up with parents with a note of anything that maybe isn't self-explanatory on those reports so that we can get the information out there. You know, in a perfect world, we'd be in a slightly different scenario with the training and with the implementation. One thing we're really trying not to do is rush things too much. We want folks to understand how  to implement, how to get students on how to use the data. And so the training piece is important for that. We're just sort of stuck in between a rock and a hard place of when to make that happen. And in all honesty, disappointed with the training company  for the, lack of timely response in getting the dates secured. And I understand it to send just because we're looking at getting five trainers all at the same time, and they come from all over the country.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So to be able to secure five people for a one chunk of time can be really challenging. And so we, you know, we will get them there on the

[R8732-398] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (thanked as 'Corey' seg 313; superinte | 2016-11-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Decisions is going to be the, the parents will receive like report between now and and the eye ready training.
TEXT> So all of the testing has been completed for the fall. And so every student who took the assessment has a  parent report. They're very colorful. They're very easy to explain. You to understand  those will all go home. Mike doesn't like the fact that we're printing them in color, but it makes a big difference between the color and the black and white. So, those will all go home to families. They will be hand delivered to those families who attend the parent teacher conferences and will get them home to the families who aren't able to attend those. And then the training for teachers of how to interpret the data specifically will happen after that, and how to access the reports that training. My understanding is that training is really not as much focused on the parental report as the other reports available and what to do with them. And so, I'd be lying if I can give you complete certainty with exactly what that's going to be. I haven't participated in that yet. But our our expectation is that the parent reports will go home. Hopefully there is self-explanatory as we think that they are. And then if we need to, we will follow up with additional information.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: So just understand. So the report is basically a report card and everybody gets it. But there's a lot more data there that we're going to train our teachers to

[R8732-402] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (thanked as 'Corey' seg 313; superinte | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brent Ferland: So so so that that information that they're getting isn't anything that's going to. So it's just there's more information available that the teacher is going to be trained how to access.
TEXT> Yeah. So the parent report is based on the individual child. So, you know, your child I know Brian has children at Maple and they've taken the assessment. So they will get a parental report for those individual children. It talks about how they did both in math and in the reading side.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: They need special training to read this report.

[R8732-404] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (thanked as 'Corey' seg 313; superinte | 2016-11-02
PREV> Brent Ferland: They need special training to read this report.
TEXT> You don't it's it's very. And you and I actually I shared one with all of you in that packet. And I can get you another copy if you'd like. But it says, you know, your child is able to do this. Next, they need to be working on this. These are some areas that they were weakened. And so it's it's pretty self-explanatory. And that's at the student level. The  in the system, there are class level reports. There are building level reports, there are growth reports. There are a bunch of different ways to analyze the data, that the teachers need more.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: To get the most out of it, the training.

[R8732-437] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (presents the DOE-25 and fund balance, s | 2016-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: They actually.
TEXT> Yeah, they do, but I'm going to start with the Doe 25, which is the 25 page report coincidentally, basically what we do here is we, we, we  take all the information in our, in our accounting system and we, we generate it and we, we, we format it into a report for the state. Obviously this there's quite a few numbers on these 25 pages. And basically what they're trying to do is to get to a cost per student by by level for the elementary, the middle and the high school. The most important number on this report, however, is on page one.  135. 770 that's on the third line up from the bottom first column. And that is the unassigned fund balance. The reason that's the important thing is basically what that tells us is that's the surplus that we have available from operations from the 16 year everybody. See where I'm at. Third line up from the bottom. Just it says page number one,  line number 35, account number 770.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Six five.

[R8761-21] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: to discuss this. And what do we want to do about it? So we start off with the discussion with the school district as well as the hospital. And then from there, we asked for some state support to how do we deal with this?
TEXT> Because we want to have 100% screening of children 0 to 6 years of age, and we want to prevent it from happening in the first place. So then that led us to having a discussion with Gail Giddens, who will be doing the presentation this evening, and her  colleague Beverly. And so we had more discussion. And then we set up this meeting, because the first part of the process is to educate all of us with the situation at hand. So in addition to the school board and the city Council, we invited some  of the stakeholders we know will be active in this process. So from the city administration. Mr.. Do you want to introduce your personnel?
NEXT> Guy Santagate: Yes, sir. We have here Mary Walter, our finance director. We have the two code enforcement individual that came out there in the front line and some of these issues,

[R8761-23] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2016-11-15
PREV> Guy Santagate: that came out there in the front line and some of these issues, and and we wanted them here to here. Any changes or any update we have? Our car was here from our welfare area and Scott Speed, our director of DP, WS here.
TEXT> Thank you. And in addition to those people, we also have Peter Ryan who's the CEO of Valley Regional Hospital. And next to him, Katie, who is a retired are and who has worked in this program for quite some time and is now currently on the Claremont Newport Health Healthy Homes Committee, which is a locally based organization dealing with just this thing. We also invited judges and the police chief, but they were unavailable this evening. So we are really trying to make sure that all of the stakeholders in the community and they're not all represented here tonight, but this is going to take a community wide effort to resolve this issue. But the outcome is we're going to have healthier kids. We're going to have better outcomes in the school district, and we're going to spend a lot less money dealing with issues that could be avoided. So with that, may I introduce Gail Guns. Thank you, Charlene. And thank you everyone for having this evening. And well.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Done, Claremont, this is the first of its kind meeting that I've seen, and you have just about everybody at the table. You need to do need to have to

[R8761-24] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: to have better outcomes in the school district, and we're going to spend a lot less money dealing with issues that could be avoided. So with that, may I introduce Gail Guns. Thank you, Charlene. And thank you everyone for having this evening. And well.
TEXT> Done, Claremont, this is the first of its kind meeting that I've seen, and you have just about everybody at the table. You need to do  need to have to fully address this issue. So well done. So I am Gail Gans. I am a health promotion advisor and a child development specialist with Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention program. The program is one of 28 in the United States located in high risk areas, and we're almost completely funded by the center for Disease Control. These funds come into the states and are usually embedded in divisions of public health, as they are in New Hampshire. I usually start with this slide because it tends to get people's attention. New Hampshire has between 800 and 1000  poisonings each year, every year, each year, every year, five years time, we'll have 5000 more children who are poisoned. And that's twice the national average. And if you didn't know this, Claremont has long since been on New Hampshire's top eight high risk communities. The others listed here just recently we've, within the last three months been assessing this list and it's now grown to 21. Claremont is still on this list, but Claremont has long since been  a very high risk community for elevated blood leads and childhood lead poisoning prevented.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So tonight, I'm going to talk to you a little bit about the history of lead poisoning. So you kind of have to understand how we got in this mess

[R8761-26] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: in New Hampshire. Senate Bill 135, signed by Governor Hassan about a year and a half ago, as well as draft legislation that Senator Felton will be introducing in January, that you have a copy of the latter two having significant impact on this issue.
TEXT> So before I dive into New Hampshire's statistics, I want to show you a video clip from this documentary called misled. It's about to be released in December, and Division of Public Health hopes to bring it to New Hampshire for screenings. The woman you see in this picture is Tamara Rubin. She's a mother who lives in Oregon, and three of her children were poisoned when they hired someone to renovate their home. They did not use lead safe work practices. She went on to start the Lead Safe America organization and has worked for about the last five years to put together this phenomenal documentary  on lead poisoning in the United States.
NEXT> Guy Santagate: We can't see it.

[R8761-32] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: So lubricant.
TEXT> Engines were knocking. So instead of re-engineering the engines we put this toxic substance into gasoline, which yes, in fact fixed the knocking but then came out the exhaust for everyone to breathe. And to this day, the soil around most major highways is highly toxic. We used it in pipes for a very long time and as we said sadly, have learned in Flint, Michigan, if we're not managing our water systems and treating with anti-corrosion measures as needed, LED will actually leach out of the pipes and enter the water systems. And we used it in paint, lead paint up until 1978, overwhelmingly in New Hampshire, like 99% of the elevated blood leads of the poisoning comes from lead paint. In the last ten years, we may have had on one hand children that have been poisoned by jewelry or pottery or imported toys, etc. but it's not the water in New Hampshire. It's the deteriorating lead paint. So little history when you play Trivia Pursuit, but it's long documented over the centuries how toxic and nasty lead paint dust is, and lead in general. There's a discussion that the lead and the aqueducts led to a higher rates of aggression,  more cognitive deficits, higher rates of infertility, leading to a decline of the Roman Empire.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Benjamin Franklin has letters, if you Google it, where he had drew drawings of the rum distillers, the big rum barrels. The taps were 100% lead, and the neurological impact

[R8761-33] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: the centuries how toxic and nasty lead paint dust is, and lead in general. There's a discussion that the lead and the aqueducts led to a higher rates of aggression, more cognitive deficits, higher rates of infertility, leading to a decline of the Roman Empire.
TEXT> Benjamin Franklin has letters, if you Google it, where he had drew drawings  of the rum distillers, the big rum barrels. The taps were 100% lead, and the neurological impact of the drooping arms and the hands that didn't work of the distillers and lead was used as a sweetener in wine for centuries. In fact, it was used in champagne until about ten years ago, when California was putting in laws saying that they had to label the  bottles and we list to say the wine industry did not want to label their bottles that it contain toxic lead. So finally we removed lead as a sweetener from champagne. But there's discussion always that Beethoven lost his hearing because he drank, because he played his music too loud. But in fact, it's because he drank a great deal of wine. And that deteriorated his hearing. And in young children, one of the first signs, one of the first presentations of symptoms you will see with elevated blood leads are speech and language delays, hearing deficits, language processing disorders. We'll talk about that. But the day to remember 1892  Australia epidemic of childhood led poisonings, meaning an epidemic of death from white leg based paint that was put on railings, on porches, on a whole new development of homes. After that, you can see numerous other countries been led in residential pain. Do you notice any country that is not on this list?
NEXT> Gail Gans: United States, France, Great Britain, Spain? By 1931, almost every other country had been led in residential pain. We had the first death in the United States of a child

[R8761-34] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: of death from white leg based paint that was put on railings, on porches, on a whole new development of homes. After that, you can see numerous other countries been led in residential pain. Do you notice any country that is not on this list?
TEXT> United States, France, Great Britain, Spain? By 1931, almost every other country had been led in residential pain. We had the first death in the United States of a child in 1914, and in 1922, the League of Nations, which is the precursor to the UN, put out a treaty, a white paper, to ban land in residential paint. Every single nation that was participating in the League of Nations signed it, except the United States. This is tragically and uniquely an issue that the United States, and especially in areas like New Hampshire, one of the 13 Colonies areas with a lot of older housing continue to deal with. In 1940, we started to have the started to have the research showing that if children survived acute toxicity, meaning if they didn't die from lead exposure from paint, they would have significant cognitive and behavioral deficits. And by the 1970s, Herbert Needleman, pediatrician researcher at University of Pittsburgh, had all the research showing that even with no outward symptoms, no presentation of clinical toxicity, no signs of showing that a child's been exposed to lead, they will have significant cognitive and behavioral deficits. So finally, and if you remember that first date in Australia,  almost 100 years later, we finally took lead out of gasoline and out of residential paint in the United States.
NEXT> Gail Gans: But with that legislation, there was no, you know, Harry Potter magic wand that took all of the lead in all of the layers of paint that had been coated

[R8761-37] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the documentary and YouTube video clips playe | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: school, where she taught grades one through three. It was like a small school house with a few rooms and they dropped off these, pretending for these to be given to children to take home or to play with a paper for boys and girls.
TEXT> What were they promoting? Ducks LED paint. There's a valuable coupon in the middle of this book. Be sure to give it to your father or mother. This is copyright 1929 by the National Lead Company. The national led company had so much power in Washington and had so much clout. They continued to add lead to paint all the way up until 1978, 60 years after it was discovered to cause problems in children and pregnant mothers. It's sick. Oh, here's the coupon for money.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So if you're not familiar with it, that is the tragic. Story. Of why we had. Lead in residential. Paint in the United States for so long, and why we're

[R8761-38] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: so much power in Washington and had so much clout. They continued to add lead to paint all the way up until 1978, 60 years after it was discovered to cause problems in children and pregnant mothers. It's sick. Oh, here's the coupon for money.
TEXT> So if you're not familiar with it, that is the tragic. Story. Of why we had. Lead in residential. Paint in the United States for so long, and why we're continuing to deal with it. So lead is the perfect storm for young children. If we took all the collective wisdom in this room, and if we were assigned the task of let's create the perfect poison for young children, I would argue that we might very well come up with lead. There are a couple things that just make it the perfect storm, as I mentioned led. Taste good? It's a sweetener. Now, most young children between 1 and 2 will put nearly anything in their mouth. But certainly with lead, there's no deterrent because it tastes good. Very young children under the age of six have no blood brain barrier. Take you back to high school biology. But a blood brain barrier is a natural occurring anatomical feature. Fortunately, we all have one. It grows at about the time your age. Six. Before that, you don't have this filter. And if lead gets into your blood or other heavy metals or toxin, it goes in your mouth into your blood and pumps right through your brain, causing significant damage because you don't have this filter.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So children under six are at great risk. That's also the time that they're crawling, where lead dust collects, where they're pulling to standing, and where they're putting their hands

[R8761-39] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: age. Six. Before that, you don't have this filter. And if lead gets into your blood or other heavy metals or toxin, it goes in your mouth into your blood and pumps right through your brain, causing significant damage because you don't have this filter.
TEXT> So children under six are at great risk. That's also the time that they're crawling, where lead dust collects, where they're pulling to standing, and where they're putting their hands in their mouth. So they're naturally occurring behaviors that we want them to be demonstrating puts them at great risk for exposure. It also takes only trace  amounts. Remember seeing in that documentary The Physician, it only takes little bits of dust that you don't even see. People of my generation, you may remember in the late 70s, there were public service announcements that gave the image that children had to eat paint chips like this big, like binge eating Doritos in order to be poisoned. Well, yes, that will poison them. It will most likely kill them. But for the poisonings that we're seeing today, it's just traces of lead paint dust that spread through an apartment or a home where a child is crawling, or it gets on their toys or their pacifiers, their hands that go in their mouth. In addition to that, there are no immediate presentations. A two year old with an elevated blood lead. Even a three year old one year old looks fine.  Acting fine. If a child drinks the proverbial bottle of children's Tylenol, you're going to know they've been poisoned. They'll be vomiting. They may be seizing. They'll be lethargic. You'll know something's wrong.
NEXT> Gail Gans: But when children are exposed to lead at this age where this little happy baby is crawling, there's no outward symptoms. You don't see the cognitive deficits, the learning disabilities,

[R8761-40] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: blood lead. Even a three year old one year old looks fine. Acting fine. If a child drinks the proverbial bottle of children's Tylenol, you're going to know they've been poisoned. They'll be vomiting. They may be seizing. They'll be lethargic. You'll know something's wrong.
TEXT> But when children are exposed to lead at this age where this little happy baby is crawling, there's no outward symptoms. You don't see the cognitive deficits,  the learning disabilities, the speech and language delays, the behavior issues until they're older, until maybe late preschool into kindergarten, first grade, and other different junctions in their development along the way. So this nightmare is happening with young children, and we don't even see it. And unless they're tested, we won't even know it until they're in your school system and you begin to diagnose the issues. In 2012, the center for Disease Control lower the level of concern, the threshold of concern from ten micrograms to desolate ten micrograms per deciliter to five micrograms per deciliter. This would be the result on a child's blood test for lead. This is largely the result of longitudinal studies. More research, better technology. In 2012, the center for Disease Control went to the language of we know that there's now no safe level of lead exposure. The new reference level is five, indicating that a child's been exposed to lead and they need case management.
NEXT> Gail Gans: In New Hampshire, our rules, the laws that govern the Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention program have not quite caught up to that new standard yet. In New Hampshire,

[R8761-41] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: research, better technology. In 2012, the center for Disease Control went to the language of we know that there's now no safe level of lead exposure. The new reference level is five, indicating that a child's been exposed to lead and they need case management.
TEXT> In New Hampshire, our rules, the laws that govern the Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention program have not quite caught up to that new standard yet. In New Hampshire, if a child has an elevated blood lead between five, which is the new level of concern to 9.9, hopefully the child's health center and pediatrician are working with that family and educating them. Division of Public health. Our office sends a letter to the family with some fact sheets, and they can call in and talk to our public health nurses and our lead inspectors. But that's the extent of the action for from 5 to 9.9, if a child's elevated blood lead goes to ten micrograms per deciliter. Then our public health nurses go out and visit the home or the apartment and the Claremont area. It would be Roberta Lawson. They go out and do parent education, hopefully can support interim controls, make sure the child is getting the additional medical tests, and is kind of the go between between the pediatrician  and the child's family. And we also send out a lead inspector, the test the environment for lead test the paint. We also test the water.
NEXT> Gail Gans: We've never had a detection of lead in the water with the children. Have the elevated blood leads. And if the hazards are determined to be in the apartment, then

[R8761-43] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: It's a pretty powerful message. So to take you back to high school biology for a minute only so I can level set so you can understand the damage that it does. We want in a child's brain to have lots of big, beautiful neurons.
TEXT> And we want insulation, the myelination that looks like those red hot dogs moving along the axon. So the electrical impulses moves seamlessly from one neuron to another. And between the synapse terminals, we want functioning neurotransmitters, the chemicals that move those impulses from one synapse terminal to the other. So children between birth.  And two. Develop more synapses than at any other time in their life. The architecture for the rest of their higher order learning,  all the rest of their learning. They make more synapses between birth and two than in any other time in your life. And as we've discussed, that's. Exactly the time you're most at risk for lead poisoning because of their naturally occurring behaviors. And this is another image of synapse development from birth to three years. It's rapid, an incredible and amazing. And what we want to happen and lead wreaks havoc on this. So what does lead do. It reduces the myelination on the axons. Big words to say those hot dogs, that insulation that insulation either doesn't grow or if it's there, gets holes in it. So in the brain, sending impulses from one neuron to another without insulation, they get lost. So your brain doesn't communicate. It reduces the size and numbers of the neurons. They either don't grow or they're mutated. They don't have the right shape to them to function properly. And children get crossed.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Signals in the neurotransmitters. Spontaneous signals are enhanced and stimulated signals are inhibited. So what does that mean? So spontaneous signals means ones they weren't meaning to send. That's what

[R8761-45] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: So this frontal part of the frontal lobe, this front part of your brain takes a double hit. Because not only the anatomical structures mutated are not functioning the way they're supposed to. The neurotransmitter also doesn't work well. So what does it look. Like.
TEXT> In a child's brain? This is a. Brain scan of a child,  a male child with an elevated blood lead of 13.4. And all the areas that you're going to see that are yellow and red in orange are areas of less gray matter density. So fewer neurons, less myelination, less neurotransmitter. It's frightening. It's the proverbial holes in your brain. And look up. Top at their frontal lobe. Look at the hit it takes. It's your prosocial behavior. You're planning your your your functioning, your oversees all brain function and the back part of the brain. So critical for reading and math skills compared to those. But all areas of the brain are impacted by lead exposure. It's really very frightening. So April 2012, about a year and a half ago. First time ever we had a document come out from the center for Disease Control on educational interventions for children impacted by lead. First time ever we had a document anywhere actually addressing what are the educational needs  of young children who have been exposed by lead? The paper looked at 60 years of research and nothing you don't already know.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Lead has unnavigable long lasting effects on intelligence, behavior and health, and it's causal led causes these bad outcomes a show that even a little bit of exposure in early

[R8761-47] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: behavior challenges. Again, lack of emotional regulation, impulsivity, aggression, destructive behaviors, anti-social behavior, speech and language delays, processing disorders, hearing deficits, and fine and gross motor challenges. In a nutshell, they don't do well in school. They have lower ice, ice and their behavior problems.
TEXT> And these consequences last long into adulthood. Children that have had elevated blood leads engage in many more risky behaviors as teenagers. Higher rates of teen pregnancy, substance abuse, crime before they're 18. As adults, they abuse and neglect their own children,  and they engage in violent crimes as adults. This is a table from the Economic Burden of Environmentally Attributed Illness and Children in New Hampshire report. It's done every two years by the Environmental Health Tracking Bureau, which is in the Division of Public Health. They look at increased costs from environmentally attributed illnesses such as lead or asthma. They look at increased medical costs, special ed costs, etc.. And this is just the table for just increased cost due to crime related to elevated blood leads. You can see the number and type of crime.  And in $2,013, the additional cost in New Hampshire of almost $9 million.  And this connection between lead exposure as a child and violent crime is an adult has been well researched and well documented. This is  another way of showing it. We talked about the fact that we put lead in gasoline and then took it out. So we were all part of this social experiment. The green line represents the average lead level blood lead levels in preschool children,  reflecting from when we put gas in lead in gas and then took it out.
NEXT> Gail Gans: And the blue line is violent crimes per 100,000. And they they mirror or they duplicate each other. It's unusual that you can see blood leads go up. Violent crime

[R8761-50] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: closing the window will generate the dust that can come into the room. And children love to put their hands and look out the window, or put their hands on the window sill. And if they're teething, they may in fact bite the window sill.
TEXT> Almost always, if we find lead on the exterior of the house. 5060 years of scraping, painting, weathering, ice storms that lead goes into the soil.  Almost always the soil is contaminated and highly toxic. And they do abatement. They have to go down two feet, out four feet, dig it all out. Take it to the toxic landfill,  put down vapor barrier. Bring a new soil or gravel. Children playing in the bare soil. You can imagine. They touch their mouths, touch their nose. They eat, have a snack without washing their hands. The lead from that soil goes right into their mouths and their bodies. Not only can the lead pass from mother to fetus, if a mother is currently herself in an environment, being exposed to lead cause significant negative impact on the fetus, from cognitive deficits to tumors to stillbirth to premature birth to miscarriage. But bear with me for a minute. So girl child is exposed to lead, has an elevated blood lead. Children don't excrete any of that lead. It stays. Almost all of it stays in their body. And you store lead. So, little girl who's been poisoned in carbon is storing all that lead in her bones and in her teeth. And lead mimics calcium.
NEXT> Gail Gans: So, little girl who is poison grows up to be a young woman who's pregnant in your second trimester of your pregnancy. You shed calcium. You're supposed to. A woman

[R8761-51] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: Children don't excrete any of that lead. It stays. Almost all of it stays in their body. And you store lead. So, little girl who's been poisoned in carbon is storing all that lead in her bones and in her teeth. And lead mimics calcium.
TEXT> So, little girl who is poison grows up to be a young woman who's pregnant in your second trimester of your pregnancy. You shed calcium. You're supposed to. A woman sheds calcium from her bones and her teeth to support the baby, the fetus's bone growth. You'll shed even more if you're not getting good nutrition, supplements, etc.. So lead is stored in your bones and your teeth and it mimics calcium. So girl child grows up may not even have been tested or known. They had an elevated blood lead is pregnant. Sheds calcium. They shed the lead. At the exact same time. So you can see the generational piece to lead poisoning  that led that they're shedding with the calcium goes to the fetus. Again cognitive deficits, premature birth. Variety of health issues. And that's if the fetus survives because there's a much higher rate of miscarriage and stillbirth. So 1 in 3 children are poisoned during renovations when renovations are going on where lead paint is being disturbed. This is the type of sign you're supposed to see, and you should also see respirators, but throughout New Hampshire. This is what we see all summer.
NEXT> Gail Gans: And this is against the law. Somewhere up there, dry scraping away. And in New Hampshire, we don't regulate our contractors. You can have a pickup truck and a ladder

[R8761-52] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: in 3 children are poisoned during renovations when renovations are going on where lead paint is being disturbed. This is the type of sign you're supposed to see, and you should also see respirators, but throughout New Hampshire. This is what we see all summer.
TEXT> And this is against the law. Somewhere up there, dry scraping away. And in New Hampshire, we don't regulate our contractors. You can have a pickup truck and a ladder and call yourself Joe's painting in 2010. The EPA federal law was passed called the RR  Law renovate, repair, paint. If you're going to disturb more than about this much lead paint, you need to be are certified so you don't poison yourself or your crew, or anyone living or working in the building where you're working. So what you're seeing in this picture is illegal. This is what it's supposed to look like.  You have on Tyvek suits. You have on respirators. The windows are covered. The soil is covered. Signs are up. No one is home. And this is a wet sprayer scraper. So it sprays water when they scrape. Goes through the tube up to the Hepa vacuum that's on his back. So we contain the lead paint dust. But the RFP  law does not cover the homeowner. So a young couple saves up, buys a fixer upper, maybe inherits a home,  and if they're not aware of like, paint hazards, they begin renovating or tearing apart a kitchen and they end up poisoning themselves or their children. So anyone who's going to disturb paint this much lead paint, who's being paid for it for compensation.
NEXT> Gail Gans: That means if you're going to renovate a kitchen, put a new windows, drill holes to put an insulation, rip off trim because you're putting on a new roof. You

[R8761-53] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: home, and if they're not aware of like, paint hazards, they begin renovating or tearing apart a kitchen and they end up poisoning themselves or their children. So anyone who's going to disturb paint this much lead paint, who's being paid for it for compensation.
TEXT> That means if you're going to renovate a kitchen, put a new windows, drill holes to put an insulation, rip off trim because you're putting on a new roof. You need to be RR certified, which is about an eight hour class to become certified. So everyone watches HDTV, wildly popular channel. If any of you watch it, you may know that they rarely, if ever, talk about lead paint. They talk about as besties and they talk about mold, but they almost never. And we have the flippers, the flappers, the fixers up, the twins and everyone else that everyone is watching. And basically, they're modeling how to poison yourself. They had drive around. They tell you how old the house is built in 1920, 1940, 1960. You know, it's covered in lead paint. Then they have demolition day. They are not following are. If anything, they usually don't even have shirts on.  And then they bring children through the work site. So it's very unfortunate that we have this cable station that is extremely popular,  modeling all the wrong things for our families. So how are we doing in New Hampshire? Our statistics  are not so great.
NEXT> Gail Gans: As I mentioned, we have between 800 and 1000 poisonings every year, twice the national average. In the 2014 surveillance report, blood lead surveillance report, which is done every year

[R8761-57] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: no outward symptoms. So a mother or father had their two year old in the exam room for a half hour. The two year old's been running around tearing it apart. They've had immunizations and they have no outward symptoms of looking L or poisoned.
TEXT> And the physician says if they even say it, go down and have a venous draw, meaning you have to pin your child down to have blood drawn. So the other option is the lead care two. This is a little device that will analyze a capillary blood sample, which means we can prick a child's finger in the office. Or is the case we do it at the wick clinics with a drop of blood. We fill up this tube to the black line. So you need about two drops of blood. You plunge it into reagent, and you drop it onto this little sensor strip. And within three minutes, we have the results right in the office before the child has even left their well child. Check at 1 or 2. These are used everywhere but New Hampshire. They  are not implemented or in practice in most of our pediatric health care, unfortunately. And I think that's a piece of why our screening rates are so low. Why?  They I would think largely based on my experience, because I train heavily, probably two pediatric practices a week. They've not seen them before. It was developed in 2004 by the center for Disease Control and fully endorsed by them.  And for the most part, what I bumped into is very few  are aware of them.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Legislation. This is Senator Dan Felts. He represents Concord, part of Hopkinton. Warner, part of Henniker. He was just reelected. He introduced Senate Bill 135 a year and a half

[R8761-58] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: train heavily, probably two pediatric practices a week. They've not seen them before. It was developed in 2004 by the center for Disease Control and fully endorsed by them. And for the most part, what I bumped into is very few are aware of them.
TEXT> Legislation. This is Senator Dan Felts. He represents Concord,  part of Hopkinton. Warner, part of Henniker. He was just reelected. He introduced Senate Bill 135 a year and a half ago. It was signed last  July  by Governor Hassan. It childhood lead poisoning and screening law. So these are some of the highlights of this particular legislation you have in front of you. Again legislation they're going to talk about the commission has worked on for the last 18 months that is draft, but moved through the process and will be introduced in January. But current this is for as I mentioned, we now notify children who have elevated blood leads their families  between 5 and 9.9. Children who have an elevated blood lead are now protected from eviction. We know to property owners now, if a child in their property  has an elevated blood lead of 5 to 9.9, again, the landlord is not required to do abatement until the blood lead level goes to ten. Because our laws have not caught up with the new recommendations. But many landlords are calling into our office to get themselves educated and are often being proactive before that blood lead goes up to ten.
NEXT> Gail Gans: It also established target testing rates that we had to get our testing rates for one year olds to 85% and two year olds to 85% by January, or their

[R8761-59] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: abatement until the blood lead level goes to ten. Because our laws have not caught up with the new recommendations. But many landlords are calling into our office to get themselves educated and are often being proactive before that blood lead goes up to ten.
TEXT> It also established target testing rates that we had to get our testing rates for one year olds to 85% and two year olds to 85% by January, or their triggers in the legislation that require DfE s  public health to change the rules and to move to compliance enforcement. It also established a legislatively appointed commission with various stakeholders, has been working the last 18 months. And the legislation that you have looks like this on the cover. Has Senator felt this contact information? It literally is very much a draft. There is another I think it's going to be the final commission meeting the week after Thanksgiving. Any there may be some modifications to that, but then it will be introduced in January. A significant piece of that legislation is working to move New Hampshire to be a universal testing state. All other New England states are universal testing states, meaning all children are tested at one and two. No questions asked. As are many other states. And that's one of the pieces in this legislation. So as I begin to wrap up, I just want to point this out to you. And I don't have time in this presentation, but you can listen to his Ted talk.
NEXT> Gail Gans: This is Ralph. He was the superintendent of schools in Rochester, New York, started as a principal and then cluster principal before he was superintendent. You know, the type of

[R8761-60] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: are many other states. And that's one of the pieces in this legislation. So as I begin to wrap up, I just want to point this out to you. And I don't have time in this presentation, but you can listen to his Ted talk.
TEXT> This is Ralph. He was the superintendent of schools in Rochester, New York, started as a principal and then cluster principal before he was superintendent. You know, the type of principal and superintendent we would love to have in our communities, you know, did amazing things in the schools, from renovation to health clinics, in the middle school and high school and parent involvement and renovations and everything we could hope for. And he tells the story in his Ted talk of walking down the hall one day. Well, let me back up with all the work that he had done. He kept talking about finding groups of children and often groups or children from the same neighborhood that despite all their enrichment and intervention, they could not move forward. So he tells the story of walking down the hall one day and turning on his heel when he hears one school nurse talking to another school nurse, and she's saying another child with an elevated blood lead, and he turns because he had never heard of this.
NEXT> Gail Gans: He didn't know what she meant. And the long short of it, as he goes on to learn all about elevated blood leads and childhood lead poisonings, and he tells

[R8761-63] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: requires that our child care centers be lead paint safe. Ensure that your contractors are certified when they come in and ask for a building permit. If the house is built before 1978, ask to see their RR certification and if it's an individual homeowner.
TEXT> Hand them some of the information to educate them so they can protect themselves and their children. Implement rental inspections a tenant changes and report unsafe work practices. When you see them up there scraping away, which you're now going to see like every day because you've done this training. Take out your phone and take a picture of their truck and their license plate, and then up on their ladders and call your health officer and report it, or call our office so we can hopefully educate the homeowner or shut down the work site. An advocate.  We are in a 30 day window  before really significant legislation goes in to our state legislature on this topic. Reach out to Senator Feltz, whose contact information you have if you're involved in the medical community. Bill, who's president of the Pediatric Society and a pediatrician at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Concord, is on the commission as well. Two key people that you can reach out to with input. And when the time comes with hearings in the next couple of months, it's a place to come and speak. So I have questions next, but I'm not sure if your exact agenda.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So why we're ahead of schedule. I put a break in at about, 725, but if the if the table would like to ask the questions now and those that

[R8761-72] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: law. But also I put in the two fliers which code maybe mistrusted in our two fliers, both for the landlord. What do we do when we find the hazards in your apartment, as well as what are we for the tenant or the homeowner?
TEXT> What do we do when we find the lead hazards in the home where a child has an elevated blood lead? So I just wanted to point those out as well. Those are also on our website, available electronically and available. All of this is invaluable in multiple languages. So I want to mention that I also passed out the lead check swabs. If you haven't seen them. There are about $8 in Home Depot. Three does give them out pretty generously to non-profits. If you apply the not government agencies, they look like cigarette or a magic marker. They have two ampoules inside, but you crack them and then you can rub them on surfaces, jewelry, paint, toys. And if it turns pink or red, it's identifying lead. And I usually recommend going to the 3 a.m. website  and watching the two minute video so you know how to use them correctly and don't have a false sense of security. When I educate parents, I embed that video right into my PowerPoint on how to use them. So thank you. Mayor, you had a question. How much.
NEXT> Unidentified: Is that machine that you have in the wick places?

[R8761-77] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections by several people, inclu | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: and 20 from private insurance. There are a few outliers in the upper 20. So, they certainly are at least reimbursed for the test. And depending upon your volume, you know how big a practice you can end up paying for the machine pretty quickly.
TEXT> And you said that one of the slides said something about, the little child growing up to the young woman at some point in her life, her blood levels were above the five or above the ten. Does that mean, I was a child growing up in one of those old houses? Does that mean if I was tested today that my level would be above 5 or 10? Excellent question.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: If.

[R8761-79] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: If.
TEXT> You have a blood test, whether it's the capillary stick or a Zena straw, it's measuring or detecting your exposure  within the last 4 to 6 months. So if I was exposed as a child, that lead is now stored in my bones and in my teeth. It's not in my blood.  So if I was tested today, had a blood test today, if it was elevated, it would be showing that somewhere in my current environment I'm being exposed to lead, but it would not measure my exposure as a child.
NEXT> Unidentified: So is there a test that shows whether the Gulf has been like voices?

[R8761-81] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: So is there a test that shows whether the Gulf has been like voices?
TEXT> I could be tested right now, but it would show my exposure, my current exposure, but it cannot know. There is not a test to determine your child. When women are pregnant. There should be tested both initially to determine their current exposure, and they should be tested again at the beginning of their second trimester in case there shedding that led into their blood. But that's not happening either. That's another. Another story. Yes. Ellen. Patrick.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R8761-87] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' seg 216; on the | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: Oh batteries and oh sure. Pipes and lots of things. Yes.
TEXT> So yeah. No, I guess I guess I just want to understand that you talked about the risks, I guess, the risk to lead poisoning through the soil. So is it mainly just from, just the from because of children  getting a hand to mouth kind of contact with lead.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Lead, paint, dust, whether it's in the, in the house or in the soil. But if someone said to me, I have a limited amount of dollars, what should I

[R8761-88] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I guess I just want to understand that you talked about the risks, I guess, the risk to lead poisoning through the soil. So is it mainly just from, just the from because of children getting a hand to mouth kind of contact with lead.
TEXT> Lead, paint, dust, whether it's in the, in the house or in the soil. But if someone said to me, I have a limited amount of dollars, what should I be testing in my home? I what're would be much lower than testing the pain surfaces and getting the soil tested, especially if I had that type of bare soil around my home where children are playing. Yes, I can't see your name. So yeah. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Got two questions. First one. Excuse me. Our school here recently, in the last two years built some planters for habitat for humanity. Elevated gardens due to the lead shifts

[R8761-90] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: shifts in the soil. And I'm not sure whether it was so much to keep people from digging in as well as it was led being contacted by the food. So the first question can lead be contacted by the food and passed on? Absolutely.
TEXT> We always recommend testing your soil first before you grow vegetables because. Absolutely. And it's well documented. So raise planter beds with fresh soil that you bring in is always the way to go. If you have a garden at home or child care center or school.
NEXT> Unidentified: The habitat for humanity group did that. Second question. You mentioned a thing that was put out of his education interventions for children. Was that correct?

[R8761-91] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster merges several male voices (Frank Sprague, Vict | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: recommend testing your soil first before you grow vegetables because. Absolutely. And it's well documented. So raise planter beds with fresh soil that you bring in is always the way to go. If you have a garden at home or child care center or school.
TEXT> The habitat for humanity group did that. Second question. You mentioned a thing that was put out of his education interventions for children. Was that correct?
NEXT> Gail Gans: Yes.

[R8761-94] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: With was poisoned by lead. What was the title of that once again?
TEXT> April 2015 by the center for Disease Control. And I can send you all electronic copy of it. Educational interventions for children affected by lead Mary Jean Brown. Doctor Mary Jean Brown was the lead CDC expert on that paper.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R8761-102] Katie |  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Yes.
TEXT> And sign off. Yes. Yeah. Thank you. One way that hopefully will help decrease children getting poisoned.
NEXT> Gail Gans: There are other states, Massachusetts being one, that you cannot rent an apartment to a family with children under six unless you have a lead safe certificate, would be a

[R8761-103] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Katie: And sign off. Yes. Yeah. Thank you. One way that hopefully will help decrease children getting poisoned.
TEXT> There are other states, Massachusetts being one, that you cannot rent an apartment to a family with children under six unless you have a lead safe certificate, would be a huge step in prevention. We don't have such a statute in New Hampshire. It says, John, I can't see you. Michelle. Thank you.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Go back to.

[R8761-108] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So can you explain to me how the nation of lead is a person? Like, if I were to go in and have a test. Yes. And said that I was exposed at some point and how much lead was in my system. Yes. Now.
TEXT> So if you went and had a test today, Michelle, or your children dead or children, did your the blood lead level that would be reported. So the test result is demonstrating the exposure to lead that you have had  or have in the last say 4 to 6 months.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Right.

[R8761-111] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So but how do you test it in adults and how does it show up in the, in adults.
TEXT> It it won't test if as  myself, if I was exposed as I'm sure I was as a child, but if I have a test day, it will not be showing my exposure as a child. It will be demonstrating  my exposure in the last 4 to 6 months.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Right? Okay. I guess what I'm trying to get is, is there a test? Is there some test of former formulation that shows how it is in your system, how

[R8761-118] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: You could ADHD and yes. And those diagnosis that are from lead poisoning, how how could that be determined from adults.
TEXT> Can't you can't if it's a child.
NEXT> Unidentified: Sorry. Yeah.

[R8761-123] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Now.
TEXT> Because people have been asked, we generally test the  rule of thumb or the APA guideline as you test it. One and again a two. And if a child hasn't been tested, you test up until age six, which is why I've had school nurses tell me they want one of these at kindergarten registration. So the question is, well, can I have my ten year old tested or my 12 year old tested in the, you know, because they have X, Y or Z  particular, affected ability? And the answer is yes, of course you can have them tested. But if the deficit that you're seeing in behavior or learning skills is a result of an exposure from when they were 3 or 2, you, their blood lead is say you that was from a rental property and you've now moved into your you know, they've been living in a home for five years. That was built in 1990. You you aren't necessarily going to see an elevated blood lead, or you wouldn't be seeing an elevated blood lead at this point, but it certainly could be that the cognitive deficits or, or learning or behavior issues are result of an exposure that happened 5 or 6 years ago when the child was younger, in a property that had lead paint dust. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[R8761-125] Bernie Folds | Public commenter, Ward 3 (ASR 'I'm Bernie. / Folds at Ward three citiz | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> I'm Bernie. Folds at Ward three citizen just to pursue this line, this thread a little further. Science continues to increase, research increases and the sophistication of initiatives such as yours. Increases. Are you aware of any initiatives in progress, experimentally or otherwise, to develop about bone tests? I guess you'd have to say, in order to determine exactly what the people here have been asking about, which is to find out if you've been risked as a child.
NEXT> Gail Gans: Not not currently. I'm going to go back, if you will. Herbert Needleman, the researcher that I mentioned who is at University of Pittsburgh pediatrician. Before we had the blood

[R8761-126] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Bernie Folds: aware of any initiatives in progress, experimentally or otherwise, to develop about bone tests? I guess you'd have to say, in order to determine exactly what the people here have been asking about, which is to find out if you've been risked as a child.
TEXT> Not not currently. I'm going to go back, if you will. Herbert Needleman, the researcher that I mentioned who is at University of Pittsburgh pediatrician. Before we had the blood tests, when he was doing all of his research, he did his research with children who lost their teeth. Teachers would put in an envelope, they got a quarter from him, and they sent it off. And then he could grind down the teeth, you know, their baby teeth and could analyze the lead levels. So. I'm just extrapolating. Not that an adult necessarily wants to have your teeth pulled. Maybe when you have your wisdom teeth pulled, you could ask your dentist to keep it. But that's you know, it's that was kind of his brilliance in doing research at that time, was trying to figure out a way to measure children's lead, lead level, because we didn't have the blood test yet, and it was stored in your bones and your teeth, so I, I don't, but that's you have me thinking that's how it was done in the old days. Maybe there's a way we can pull it forward.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R8761-139] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Excellent. If it's.
TEXT> Five year old for, you know, four years, nine months in April, chemistry, kindergarten registration, they have a capillary test. It's elevated. If it's 5 to 9.9, hopefully you're sending them for a straw that confirms that your pediatrician does education. Our office sends them education. You know, this child now has a significant risk factor  for  if they aren't already presenting with a delay, a significant risk factor for a cognitive deficit, learning disability behavior issue.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's your flag.

[R8761-141] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: That's your flag.
TEXT> If at your kindergarten registration, a child has an elevated blood lead with a sample of ten or greater, send them for a venous draw if it's ten or greater, confirmed. Our public health nurse,  Roberta Lawson comes out and does the home visit with the family. She's the one that would be, so to speak, running interference between the family, the pediatrician, making sure the child's getting developmental screenings and additional blood tests. And our lead inspectors will go out to test the water and determine where the hazards are in the home.  If it's an apartment, it goes under abatement. So those are the steps. Similarly, if you determine that a kindergarten are coming in, has an elevated blood lead of ten, same type of thing, you now have a flag that this child has a huge risk factor for  developmental delays.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Behavior issues.

[R8761-147] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Surfaces.
TEXT> And contact paper and duct tape, you know, a variety of interim controls while you're waiting, hopefully, for the abatement to happen. If it's in an apartment, if and all the other risk factors we talked about, you know, if they're renovations going on, stock them and why, etc. the public health nurse also is in touch with the pediatrician and is communicating with them very frequently, often the communicator between the family and the pediatrician's office on making sure additional blood tests are scheduled. And making sure perhaps that their developmental screenings being tested if the child's younger, referring them to child check or to early intervention services for some screenings to see where the child's at. And then, as I said, our health and our lead inspectors go out. Our public health nurses, our lead case managers are a huge resource to everybody involved, certainly the pediatricians office, of course, to the family. But whoever else is involved, whether it's the school district or early intervention or preschool or, or grandmother's house, you know, usually keeps every is the person that's level set and making sure there is going on to support the child. Does that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Help very much?

[R8761-150] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Frank Sprague, school board' s | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: Yes, sir, I don't. What is your name?
TEXT> Frank. Frank Sprague, school board. One of the things I was thinking of is you were describing the behaviors of kids that have been exposed to lead poisoning. I could attach faces to a lot of these behaviors with my years that I've worked in the public schools.  And one of the cases I think I'm going to piggyback on, what Carolyn I think was getting at is that, if we have those tests later on when we sit in special ed meetings, we sit in student support team meetings trying to figure out why we're seeing persistent behaviors, why we're seeing persistent deficits in spite of our best efforts with interventions, in spite of the best therapies with, drugs to control ADHD and other behaviors that we see still not getting results. If we had that documentation that there perhaps had been some some lead poisoning at some point, now we begin to look at it as instead of a behavior where we're starting to look at it now as actual brain damage.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Exactly.

[R8761-153] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: So it becomes a TBI instead of a behavioral.
TEXT> So you raise in Frank, you raise an excellent point. Not only if the blood tests are getting done, which you saw there  frequently. Not they're not always getting on to the forms that get to public school, because often what they call pediatric labs, like there was on my daughter's form, they drop off at a certain age because, you know, they were done at one and two. Why would you need to know it when a child 6 or 10? So that's another piece that we've been advocating for, is to make sure those pediatric labs are all blood lead tests, stay on a child's health record  forever. The other piece that you mentioned, it's significant is,  that reference level dropped from ten until 5 in 2012. So before 2012, if a child had a blood lead of eight, seven  nine, it could very well be if they even were tested, that their pediatrician or health center told them it was normal or didn't even tell you didn't even tell them, you know, that. So it's worth looking at health records that you have of children that are older to see if you have the blood lead level, because a child who had a test in 2011, who  who is now, what, 5 or 6 who's now in kindergarten, may have had an elevated blood lead and the parents not even aware of it because they were told at that time, I mean, it was valid information.
NEXT> Gail Gans: They were told it was normal. There's someone else. Who? Yes.

[R8761-159] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections by several people, inclu | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: So now this lead paint is deteriorating or the the paint parts deteriorating, and that toxic lead is, if you will, being freed and is is toxic now, as it was 70 years ago or 50 years ago. And we took it out of the.
TEXT> Earth like Mercury, right. With mercury inside. Can you tell me how many kids are treated in Claremont? We have a Claremont advocate.
NEXT> Gail Gans: I looked our 2015 surveillance report will be out in about a week. So I sat with our epidemiologist today just to try to review some of the see if

[R8761-160] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Earth like Mercury, right. With mercury inside. Can you tell me how many kids are treated in Claremont? We have a Claremont advocate.
TEXT> I  looked our 2015 surveillance report will be out in about a week. So I sat with our epidemiologist today just to try to review some of the see if I could get a, some sneak preview  and, it over the last five years, the last five years that I looked at the, the first three of the last five years. Does that make sense? You had over 50 children with elevated blood leads and in the last two years. And I also think testing rates went down in the last two years. You had 30, maybe 30 plus.  So, and that's again how under-reporting more or less how few children are being.
NEXT> Unidentified: Tested and you have how many kids coming into the school system and first grade kindergarten, typically.

[R8761-161] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections by several people, inclu | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: 50 children with elevated blood leads and in the last two years. And I also think testing rates went down in the last two years. You had 30, maybe 30 plus. So, and that's again how under-reporting more or less how few children are being.
TEXT> Tested and you have how many kids coming into the school system and first grade kindergarten, typically.
NEXT> Gail Gans: How many children come in a.

[R8761-162] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Tested and you have how many kids coming into the school system and first grade kindergarten, typically.
TEXT> How many children come in a.
NEXT> Unidentified: Year from 120 30. So you take 50 out of 130. That's and that's a low number of testing.

[R8761-176] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (mayor asks 'Corey, did you want to ad | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Were talking.
TEXT> About. The statistics. For Claremont and the numbers. Of children who are reported. Is that only from Claremont based, or is that Claremont children at all surrounding area pediatricians who have been tested?
NEXT> Gail Gans: I believe that is specifically children whose address is Claremont, Hampshire.

[R8761-177] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: About. The statistics. For Claremont and the numbers. Of children who are reported. Is that only from Claremont based, or is that Claremont children at all surrounding area pediatricians who have been tested?
TEXT> I believe that is specifically children whose address is Claremont, Hampshire.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So if your pediatrician is in Windsor but you live in Claremont, that would count in those statistics.

[R8761-182] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: To New Hampshire.
TEXT> Yes, yes, yes. And Massachusetts is all of them. We all report and they have to report the other way to every single blood test that's done for lead adult, child, high, low. Every single one is is required by law to be reported into Division of Public Health, Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention program. And then we have to clean it, make sure it's perfect data, and we have to send a quarterly to the center for Disease Control.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And then you had a slide that had a number of towns listed. Claremont, I think, was listed second on that list. Remind me again, are those the towns in

[R8761-219] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Michelle' by the presente | 2016-11-15
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Yes.
TEXT> Number one, I just when you said, mother could be passed from the mother to the daughter, his daughter just does the amount of lead intensified as the symptoms become more aggressive as it's because, for example, say I, I had lead poisoning and then do having a child pass it on, then that child passed it on  to her child. So on.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Does.

[R8761-230] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And my second question was, is the CDC, will they help fund you mentioned something about nonprofit and that they would tend to want to, work in the nonprofit. So could you.
TEXT> I mentioned was and speaking of nonprofit is  3 a.m. who makes these leg check swabs has pretty generous donation,  if you will criteria to nonprofits, not government agencies. But, you know, a nonprofit child care center, community center, hospital can,  apply to 3 a.m. to receive these so that they're great thing to give out when you're doing a screening, a blood screening. Because clearly, if a, if you have an elevated blood lead, it's something tangible you can provide to parent to take home now.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So. An old department building built obviously before 78. Is there something that that person, the property managers can be trained. Is it a cost to them or is that

[R8761-232] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: property managers can be trained. Is it a cost to them or is that a service like an incentive right now? Are there any incentives for the property managers, you know, to come in and train and learn and be even certified? The our our.
TEXT> Landlords have to be RR certified themselves if they're going to work on their own properties. Yes. Well, the the incentive may be, you know, being proactive when it's kind of on their time in their budget versus ending up with a child, you know, a tenant family with a child who ends up with a an elevated blood lead over ten. And then they required to  on the spot to do a basement, at least in that particular unit. So there's certainly incentive to get educated on it or to get trained in RR so that they can be, if, you know, the smaller landlord, be doing the work on their rental units that they may rent to a young family, kind of on their own time, their own schedule and their own budget. So certainly as part of your kind of approach in Claremont, is is thinking about the getting your contractors and getting your  Lord's RPE certified and RPE trained and ideally, code when you give out your building permits asking, you know, I'd like to see right on our building permits a space where you have to write in your RR certification number. And if it's a homeowner, you know, that we could we could hand them any of those number of documents to educate them at that, that juncture. But more or less, you're not getting your building permit to tear apart in 1954 house  unless you're RFP certified. So  that's simple.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: If we could get a, a group of people together, landlords and and whoever it is, could someone come up and do that eight hour course with us?

[R8761-235] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: find funding to make that happen so that there would be no cost or little cost to those participating. The the other placing they were in a technical institute is, is to try to do some of that training. Proactive in your building trades programs.
TEXT> So we have different types of screenings that we do in the schools. Are there any programs to help with screening younger kids in the schools?
NEXT> Gail Gans: Are you referring to developmental screenings? Is that.

[R8761-254] Peter Wright |  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: Center, as well as our division and multiple other public health departments own needs that can certainly support, you know, a screening day or a mass screening day and coming out. And it's a very simple test that, you know, CMAs can do very easily.
TEXT> We, we they're coming to our office in the next couple of weeks to do a lunch and learn with the pediatricians who do follow the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines. About but to learn more about the universal testing. But, you know, our barrier is how do we get the word out, how do we get people to come and parents to give permission? We can't just, you know, start  testing young kids at random, obviously. Yeah, but but those are the barriers. I mean, those are what we see are the barriers constantly is it's a great idea. But you know what date, what time, how do people get there? All the barriers to getting to school or getting to their, you know, to their appointment.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Is that a mobile type of thing? You know, just silly.

[R8761-264] Gail Gans | Guest presenter, NH Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention Progra | 2016-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So you could just you could go right out and go door to door.
TEXT> I could literally do it on the front of your public library if you want. I mean, the piece one significant piece. You have to you have to have a ideally a hand washing sink, because lead is a heavy metal and doesn't come off with an alcohol swab. So you really have to wash your child's hands first before you use the swab. So having running water is the ideal. But, you know, there are ways around that if need be. But an alcohol swab doesn't remove the lead. So to make sure the test is accurate, ideally you're washing the child's hands first.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So Gail, just we want to wrap.

[R8761-270] Katie |  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Gail Gans: Yes.
TEXT> And at one point we did do bed screening. And I did talk with. My board. And we're very interested in being part of this because we're locally based. One thing, when you do screening  of kids, you need to have a mechanism whereby some the, the test results are going to be reported to someone and then followed up on you. And you have to obviously have a confidentiality piece there. We worked with Connecticut Valley Home Care. We did it. So we had it built right in with nursing and the ability to follow up with doctors. So you have to think about that piece, right?
NEXT> Gail Gans: The test I mean, there's a pretty simple form that the the result of the test has to get reported into division of public health, and then we have to

[R8761-296] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes voices in the lead-poisoning documentary  | 2016-11-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: felt Dover was one of the leaders that felt that they were not receiving their fair share of adequacy, and that the mistake was, the state had made an error in the distribution of adequacy aid, and their argument prevailed in court, hence the legislation.
TEXT> Was the cat correct? Dover was not getting their fair share because the state had a cap on the number of kids, and that's more kids who into Dover. They weren't getting the increased money per child, so they sued.
NEXT> Guy Santagate: Well, there's one word characterizing disgraceful. Pick the word disgraceful or unconstitutional. Pick a choice. It's both. It's going back to claim a lawsuit. Tom Kenny, a local lawyer, is

[R8761-392] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Change it.
TEXT> And if I may,  Mayor Leavitt, here's one example of changing that. This has been a very worthwhile meeting tonight. There's also been a lot of challenging things said, but for the community and for all of you, let us not forget that a community oftentimes is measured by the residents. And in my focus, it's the students. And for the first time in decades. Two weeks ago, we saw,  in Hanukkah, a tremendous soccer game where the boys just missed being the division champions by one goal. Outstanding. And this Saturday, the New Hampshire Interscholastic Athletic Association Division three championship. Stevens. Cardinals versus versus. Interlake. Milton Berle, University of Hampshire at 11:00 Saturday morning, the first time in decades, decades that we're going for a state championship. So that is Michelle. That's just one example of some of the gems  that I want to acknowledge publicly. And when you talk about Stevens High School  and we talk about the arts, the academics of the athletics, we're really talking about pre-K  through 12  because it all doesn't start when the student enters high school. But there are a lot of reasons to be proud in Claremont. And I look forward with the with the city council and the community to to go forward with this because there is the ship is turning and yeah, we have some waves, but the ship is turning.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So on that positive note. Chair wrap, is there anything else you would like to add before we close?

[R8762-27] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (chair: 'Barron [Marion], y | 2016-11-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Opposed? Great. Thank you. And with that. Barron, you're up.
TEXT> Bluff is hosting their annual feast on Friday the 18th. The feast has been. All students sit together for a meal resembling the original Thanksgiving in 1621. Then from Stephen's. Congratulations to our Stephens football team for beating the formerly undefeated Monadnock Huskies to win a spot in the championship game, which is taking place this Saturday at 11 a.m. at H. Tickets are on sale at Stephen's. Please contact Mr. Beaupre for information. It's $8 for adults and $6 for students and senior citizens. Congratulations to Karaman and his election to the Division three senior Volleyball All star game this Saturday at Hollis Brooklyn High School, as well as being named the Division three volleyball All-State athlete. Congratulations to Lee Scott and Marian Lovett in making the Division three field hockey team first string and Jenny Murray making the Division three all state team for second string. The unified basketball team will be hosting their first ever unified basketball jamboree here at Stephens on December  or 10th. It is a Saturday, so we hope that people who can't make our regular season games can come check us out.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: Tis the season of giving, and students at Stephens would like your participation in helping the community this Thanksgiving, with all proceeds going to the Claremont Soup Kitchen Food Pantry.

[R8762-28] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (chair: 'Barron [Marion], y | 2016-11-16
PREV> Marion Lovett: team for second string. The unified basketball team will be hosting their first ever unified basketball jamboree here at Stephens on December or 10th. It is a Saturday, so we hope that people who can't make our regular season games can come check us out.
TEXT> Tis the season of giving, and students at Stephens would like your participation in helping the community this Thanksgiving, with all proceeds going to the Claremont Soup Kitchen Food Pantry. There will be four separate boxes placed in the main hallway on the first floor near the elevator, one for each class. Donate drying canned goods, so please donate and let's see which class is most giving. The Key Club nearly raised $700 over Halloween via Unicef to help eradicate net, which is maternal net natal. This will inoculate over 400 mothers and their future babies. So a very good job. A very good job. Well done. Also, Key Club is in the process of raising money to purchase turkeys for the needy of Claremont through their annual sale of paper turkeys here at Stevens and around Claremont. This will be dispersed through the Claremont Soup Kitchen next Monday. The number purchased through last year's fundraiser was 110 or 120 turkeys, and this year, the key club hopes to beat that. Many kudos for the job they do. That's all I have for tonight.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great.

[R8762-33] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> And good evening. Just two items tonight. One is I put a green, piece of paper on your play setting. As you know, one of our goals over the five year plan for it is to have 75% of our Stevens High School students  apply for college and 75% accepted. Or if not, a four year college or two year college or a post-high school educational experience. And,  we learned a week ago that  Claremont Middle School  is going to be a part of a cohort,  under the auspices of Gear Up New Hampshire, gaining early awareness and readiness for undergraduate programs. This  is the first Gear Up grant awarded to New Hampshire  from a grant submitted in 2014.  The grant is $1.7 million, and 1 million of that is going to be for scholarships, with a possibility to be renewed for an additional six years. I contacted the New Hampshire College and and University Council  recently,  and they are still making some foundational plans to to initiate this. But what's exciting about this is that, as you can see,  They'll be statewide activities to promote college going and readiness, regional planning focused on working K to 12 schools. And the cohort model will provide interventions and direct support to 505 seventh grade that will follow them until their first year in college. So this is for the class of 2000 and  2012, not mistaken the class of 2012. And if you look on the.
NEXT> Unidentified: 22, two.

[R8762-183] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: schools and our students moving forward for the next five years and beyond? Again, folks requested that that information be distributed and once collated. And so we've been able to capture the the big ideas, things we want to continue, things we want to change.
TEXT> Sort of under four categories. Things to build on, nurture and grow. Things we want to improve. Challenge that. Challenges that require us to work together and wishes to make our school of the future come alive.  So this process, if you remember, for the Strategic Strategic Action Plan, the five year Plan of Excellence is being facilitated by Mark Dolan. We were originally scheduled to have our next meeting this Saturday, but, that is being postponed or was postponed because we are going to be in attendance at the football game on Saturday instead. So,  the the task of that steering committee working on the Plan of Excellence is to take this information and identify next steps. There was a lot of conversation during the evening  of folks wanting to continue the conversation. The the timeline that we had together, many felt was short and want to sort of hear what others had to say at that time by reviewing the summary document and then getting back together. And we will be planning,  opportunities to do that. We're also planning opportunities to get input directly from students and teachers in the district in a variety of, of different ways.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So these processes are actually separate. One is really around community engagement, around early childhood learning and supported through grant process and grant funds. And the other is around our

[R8762-214] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: present in the next 24 hours. And so there's there's lots that we're trying to do to extend learning beyond the traditional four walls of our schools, engaging the community and making learning a community initiative, not just a school initiative. So it was sustainable.
TEXT> And just one more example of what Corey is talking about. We are  we're going to have a meeting with River Valley Community College and to see if we can develop a partnership with accessing the resources of this tech center. Now, this is all in preliminary stages. Nothing has been formalized. There's got to be some dialog, but  but, Joel Snyder, the director and some of the staff here working with representatives of Valley Community College, we will see how that develops and see if it's a fit benefiting all parties. And then that'll be reported out as well. So  I'm talking about  that in addition to because there are some works in progress, we don't know what the outcome will be, but we're not trying to add a lot of layers. We're trying to stay focused and provide opportunities for students that meet our goals.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great. Thank you.

[R8762-244] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: We do. We have.
TEXT> The memo dated November 10th. There are ten policy number one through ten  that were before you on November 2nd. But because of the our we postpone them  until until this evening.  Access to minutes and public records, student transportation services, video and audio recordings and school property, food service management, patriotic exercises, change of school or assignment. These six policies, by the way,  are the result of changes in the law. And we had to update our policies. And then you'll notice that Corey LeClaire, working with  some board members on the policy subcommittee, brought forth public solicitation in schools, advertising in the schools, employee gifts and solicitations, and flier distribution policy,
NEXT> Unidentified: Before you.

[R8762-246] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Before you.
TEXT> And then the final two policies, 11 and 12 access to public school programs by nonpublic charter school and home educated pupils and procedural safeguards for children with disabilities. Both these policies  are likewise the result of changes in legislation, and are recommended by the New Hampshire School Board Association.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Everyone have a chance to review them, and how do you want to do we want to do them all at once, at least the ones for third read.

[R8762-298] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: responsibility for the collection of any money or distribution of any fund. Drive literature within the schools unless such an activity has a superintendent approval and I get the superintendent approval. But I don't understand the rest of that. I'm not sure what that's saying.
TEXT> I think what it means is that I read that to mean that, if staff members are going to be involved with fundraising, perhaps working with the PTO, with students, and there's going to be cash involved, that there has to be a protocol in place that I approve  to govern and  to govern that activity.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, it sounds it sounds like if there's a short shortage of money, the staff won't have to make it up. That's how I'm reading that.

[R8762-324] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: So that's what I'm thinking. Just because that's the community. It's a community because it's literally a city committee that offers it for free.
TEXT> So you're suggesting for number two on policy A  yes, to add the activity of student or community related.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Right. I just I think that just allows I mean, I think ultimately if the city came to you guys now, you'd still you could still approve it theoretically. But

[R8762-326] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: Right. I just I think that just allows I mean, I think ultimately if the city came to you guys now, you'd still you could still approve it theoretically. But with that, it opens that door. It's not quite as gray for me. Well.
TEXT> As you know, I, I consider the school district partners with with the city and with the Claremont Bank Community Center. And I'm very interested in sharing student opportunities with students and parents, which I do through school messenger. It also saves a ton of printing and children bringing home a lot of paper.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I didn't think of that. But yeah, going forward, that's the way they should do it. That would be awesome.

[R8762-329] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> So just to clarify, the activity is student and or community related. Is that what you said.
NEXT> Unidentified: Benefit students?

[R8762-358] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Did you do. J j j? Yeah.
TEXT> J j j and I h be a dash. Okay, if I just can just quickly explain, as it was explained to me by at the Kidder Law Conference, this policy is a result of legislation and this is how it works. If there is a charter school in our community and there is a Claremont child going to that charter school, and we have a bus route that that services are Claremont School District students that would go by the student's home and would go by the charter school. Then we are obligated to provide transportation from the student's home to the charter school, with the understanding that we're not creating another, different route. So that's what this represents. And also extracurricular activities. Courses, etc..
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So my office and it's often actually Melissa, handles all of our home school tracking for all of our home school students in our district, and we have quite a

[R8762-359] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: student's home and would go by the charter school. Then we are obligated to provide transportation from the student's home to the charter school, with the understanding that we're not creating another, different route. So that's what this represents. And also extracurricular activities. Courses, etc..
TEXT> So my office and it's often actually Melissa, handles  all of our home school tracking for all of our home school students in our district, and we have quite a number, I think we're well over 100 home school students. And so, as of late, I'd say in the last, you know, the first three months of this school year, in the last three months or so of last school year,  there have been a significant increase in the number of requests were receiving  that have atypical around home school students and what they wish to have access to. And the law has  changed. Some but if we could just be very conscientious with what we put in our policy, for instance, equal access to the district's curricular courses. What  what do we as a board wish to support there? Versus what do we wish not to support their versus what the law actually says? Because are we talking about,  providing the entire math series for each?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I'm just thinking it's it's a slippery slope, but to this equal access, I don't know how you could do that. If our if if our curriculum is taught

[R8762-361] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: our curriculum is taught in a classroom, they don't come to our school, how do you give them equal access? Are we now supposed to provide an online course specifically for homeschoolers or charter schools, who are theoretically taking students out of our school district?
TEXT> My my experience has been a home school student. Needs to have a biology class with a lab  and in the home. They cannot provide that. The student lives in Claremont. The student would enroll and participate in the biology lab course at Stevens High School. The student would go to school to Stevens for that course.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. Okay.

[R8762-364] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: these times and this type of communication involved, and we want access to this curriculum. And can I have a copy of that textbook? And so, what even three years ago was almost a non-existent portion of our work is now becoming a much larger.
TEXT> We basically now being asked to provide personal learning plans for homeschooled students. I mean, in a nutshell, that's part of what we're doing. We're participating in a personal learning plan for because to to Middleton's point of the bussing, I'm just sitting and thinking, okay, so in that that theory, if we happen to have a bus route, there's a charter school starts up and we have 50 kids going to that charter school, and all 50 kids happen to be on our bus routes. We're now providing bus transportation to a charter school. I have a whole lot of issues with this stuff.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We would not we would not have to add additional busses. We would it if only if the we've just described that's not how the law is, is interpreted.

[R8762-375] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Frank.' [58] answering | 2016-11-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Going to school, right?
TEXT> Which kids have always done. So that means was Middleton describes it coming in and taking bio.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, I.

[R8762-382] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'dead on Patrick' [259-260] afte | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: A.
TEXT> Opens up kind of opens up that  door about, providing, providing special needs services to students who are not enrolled in the district, which has been a question for a while, because if you look at equal access, is it going to be interpreted that way that for certain students to be able to access the program, or are they going to need, will they need.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I guess.

[R8762-393] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> It provides that clarity though. The the goal is to keep the policy brief. A policy isn't a procedure. It's not a roadmap of all the details. And that's where the administration comes in. And if need be, we contact legal counsel for clarity  with interpreting the law. But this you see the RSA access to public school programs by nonpublic public charter schools or home educated pupils. That's what RSA 1931 C is about.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It's the equal access to the district's curricular courses.

[R8762-397] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda, votes and citizens comments | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: That that to me, there's no wiggle room. It means I get whatever I want. Equal means if it gets that class, mica gets that class no matter what.
TEXT> Equal access means your kids in that class, my kid gets to go to that class.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That's the.

[R8762-401] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I asked Corey LeClai | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: There's two of us sitting, and we both have a different opinion on what equal access means. That's my whole point.
TEXT> When we're looking at this in practice at the middle and the high school level, it very much follows the typical model of, you know, I can't do biology instruction at home. So my my child attends for biology class or music class or whatever it may be, or my child attends to participate, to participate in extracurricular activities where this has become much more, confusing and much more gray is really K-5. And then what is our what is our responsibility as a school district? So I think I think we do need my my personal opinion, if you will, is that we do need our own policy. I'm wondering if we have the latitude and I don't know the answer to this. You all know better than I. If we have the latitude in our policy to define what access means more clearly or not,  or what we are able to accommodate as a school district. So that it gives us guidance as administration to be able to carry out and respond to requests as they arise. So just something to consider before I don't know which read on.
NEXT> Unidentified: You get lost.

[R8762-405] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Chris Irish: it, then then it becomes exactly what you're talking about. It becomes an administrative judgment call or goes back to the IRS, say you're not stuck on that equal word. It just means we're going to go to the RSA. We're going to give access.
TEXT> I would I would discourage taking out equal because you're you're you're wordsmithing the RSA. It it is equal access whether you're homeschooled or you are enrolled in the school district, you're living in the community. You do have equal access. However, if the class if the biology class is filled, I'm sorry you can't access it. No different than a student who's enrolled in our district.
NEXT> Unidentified: I agree with Middleton. I think.

[R8762-413] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: But could you give me an example where equal would be differently view? I'm just not seeing it from your parents.
TEXT> In this day and age, people seem to take equal to mean the way I want it. My version of equal is whatever you get, I get whether and if it means you're going to give me a special bus so my kid can get in that classroom, I can interpret that as equality if I guess my point is, if you don't, if for one reason or another we can't provide a bus, you could make an argument. You're not giving me equal access because I have a right to get to that classroom. And they have a bus, but I don't get a bus because I'm.
NEXT> Unidentified: Not provide that bus if it's provided equally. So that's why I'm.

[R8762-427] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I agree with Chris' [544]  | 2016-11-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I'm I thought if it said if it said that.
TEXT> Nonpublic public charter school or home educated pupil shall have access to curriculum courses and co-curricular programs offered by the school district in which the pupil resides.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I guess the next.

[R8762-431] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [47-63]; Sprague: 'Midd | 2016-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Why do you feel equal should be in there?
TEXT> Because if a child lives in Claremont and a child is homeschooled  and is not enrolled, they still have equal access to programs  that are not provided in their home school program. We have students who are not enrolled at the middle school, but attend middle school dances because they live in Claremont. We've gone through the protocol. We understand who they are. And there is access and football athletics events. Extracurricular activities. Students  who are not enrolled can't participate living in the community. They have access. That's the law.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I totally agree with that. But if our intent is to be in compliance with the RSA, the RSA does not say equal.

[R8794-9] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: I move that we approve the meeting minutes from November 16th, 2016. I'll second.
TEXT> All in favor? Opposed? Student representatives report.
NEXT> Unidentified: So from S.H. s on November 17th. A number of shows. Freshman girls attended a New Hampshire High tech women ambassador day at Lebanon High School. There were six different

[R8794-72] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Doctor Ali will be coming this evening. I told him probably about 7:15. So if we could proceed down under some action items. And when Doctor  Amir arrives, he is going to make a presentation talking about pathways to success. A program that's going to not only strengthen and enhance the bond between Claremont School District and River Valley Community College, but also provide another opportunity for our our deserving students with a up to a four year program, and providing them, in addition to the opportunity of attending school at River Valley. And some of the courses I understand are online. But also, imagine graduating from high school with a high school diploma, and you have one year of college under your belt with very, very important skills. Dealing with technology, which certainly is a is a growing need in not only in this part of the the state, but in our world. So look forward to that presentation with my doctor. But if we could please go down to the action items in anticipation of that presentation.
NEXT> Unidentified: Sure.

[R8794-75] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: Okay. Let's start off with the Exxon Mobil Education Alliance grant.
TEXT> So if you notice the footnote, we are asking the board to approve the acceptance of two grants. Disney Elementary School received a $500 grant from the ExxonMobil Educational Alliance program after being nominated for the second consecutive year. This grant will be used to purchase math and science student materials. Also, Stevens High School was also nominated and will receive a $500 grant from the ExxonMobil Educational Alliance, and these funds will be used by the science department to purchase much needed equipment. So the board's approval,  we would like to thank the  ExxonMobil Education Alliance and also accept those two grants.
NEXT> Unidentified: Make a motion to accept the grants. I'll second that.

[R8794-86] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: one college course every semester. And in the junior year, two two and the senior year two, two and summer, perhaps internship. Assuming assuming that we can raise the money. You're thinking about taking a cohort of 20 students and take them through four years.
TEXT> By the time they graduate from high school, assuming that everything goes well, they have already finished more than one year of college credits. And I can just invision that there are a few students that they're probably going to finish the whole associate degree by the time they finish high school, because if they take  one class during the summer pretty much covers the whole thing. And the estimated cost, I'm going to do the reduced cost each course, usually three credit courses at River Valley. Actually, I should say for all the seven community colleges we have, the cost of one three credit is $600 $200 per credit. But as you know, Catch the Wave is 250 for the whole corps, of course, three credits and there are some going to be some for credit courses, including mathematics and also science. That brings the cost to the cost somewhere around 68, $65,000. And I think the exact number is probably in that proposal that you have a copy of it. And I have mentioned that one to people is included in the document that as part of making sure people they know you mean business. They actually committed myself to cover $10,000 of it over four years, $2,500 per year, assuming that we can raise the rest of the money.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: And it is just a started talking to a few people. They're very excited. And especially the Claremont is really excited. And you're excited too. I think it's going to

[R8794-87] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: one to people is included in the document that as part of making sure people they know you mean business. They actually committed myself to cover $10,000 of it over four years, $2,500 per year, assuming that we can raise the rest of the money.
TEXT> And it is just a started talking to a few people. They're very excited. And especially the Claremont is really excited. And you're excited too. I think it's going to be a great program. Of course, in order to address the needs of the community, I've been touch with the Red River, as you know, one of the coolest companies around, and they need that they immediate need that they have. And I said immediate doesn't necessarily mean tomorrow because Red River. From what I've seen, is here to stay. Therefore, they have to worry about future work, workforce, talent. They need. I've been told that they really need graduates in computer networking. That's what they do. And as of today, we don't have too many students graduating in our program. This would allow them to have at least 1015. Depends on how many people they graduate.  And you're picking that program. Just want to make sure everybody understands as a pilot program, just to show everybody this is going to work. That's sort of like a placeholder. If tomorrow we decide that we get more money, more than 60,000, that we can have two cohorts, then we can look at other majors.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: One other major that I have in mind, I've talked to a couple of people that are very excited about is business. It's a lot of companies that are looking

[R8794-92] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Alex Herzog: built computers. And they got the they got to ring a bell if theirs was the first one to ring in. It was a really great experience and the kids just loved them. We hopped them up on sugar donuts and they were just techies.
TEXT> We let the parents worry after they get home to worry about the sugar level. I know I didn't get a chance to talk to you guys, but I saw you there. Thank you for coming on Monday. It was a great program and students, you have to start in order to get them excited about college slash technology. You have to get them very, very early, get them excited. And also I think I'm meeting with some students tomorrow. High school students at Stevens to talk about you also offering a free of charge course next semester in the spring C++ College course. I'm going to be teaching that course, and I'm hoping to get I got a funding from the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation. They cover the cost. They don't get $4,500 for 15 students. And hopefully I'm hoping that we can run that class with all the students from Stevens. We need some tomorrow, I think tomorrow after 130 or so.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Oh, sorry.

[R8794-94] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'to your point. Thank y | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Oh, sorry.
TEXT> So you're you're talking about Red River and computer network, and  I'm really glad to see that there's a focus on, I think, programing and,  and,  and also, you know, the technological side of it.  But, so I was, I was curious because, you know, I've been thinking about Red River and,  and, so, so what they and what they do might be something that's kind of like a little, kind of a little bit, less familiar to a lot of young students because it's not just about  kind of, knowledge of information technology, but there's also that business side of it and, being able to kind of navigate, I think navigating a lot of, institutions and, and, and there's a lot of contracting, business involved with that. And it is something that, you know, I think is a really important field. So, so I guess how, how are we like, kind of introducing that to students? Because I think that I would like to see kind of students kind of learning more about this side of it, you know, about finding a, you know, finding, finding a profession in, in that side of it, which is kind of a combination of, of knowledge of information technology, but also kind of the business side of it. So I guess I wanted to just know about, like, how how that program, how that's kind of being introduced.
NEXT> Unidentified: To students.

[R8794-95] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes brief responses and votes from several pe | 2016-12-07
PREV> Patrick Adrian: that side of it, which is kind of a combination of, of knowledge of information technology, but also kind of the business side of it. So I guess I wanted to just know about, like, how how that program, how that's kind of being introduced.
TEXT> To students.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: Yeah. The good news or bad news depends on how you look at it is a I have doctorate in computer science, and I've done computer science for a while,

[R8794-97] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: can be implemented in other majors. I have talked to my chairs and the chairs actually, they know this is a pilot program, but nothing is going to stop us from doing. I'm not going to promise right now especially there's something blinking down there.
TEXT> It says on the air there, but there's nothing. It's going to stop us from doing physical therapy. Doing occupational therapy. All those great majors that we have. I can't promise about nursing because nursing require that. You have to have LNA before you enter our program. What we can start expanding that one depends on the interest. That's why yesterday, this morning, actually, I was talking to one of our faculty in business, and we started talking about why not business? Because business actually one of the largest, probably major that we have at  River Valley. What information in technology in general? They don't have to be just thinking about Red River. It's great to go there, but almost every a small company in Claremont area, they need somebody to take care of their network. There it is the students. They get enough knowledge, hands on that they're going to be prepared to go to any jobs. I don't know if I answer your question.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: No.

[R8794-102] Unidentified | Unidentified - 'Quick question' [200] preceding a board member's cost  | 2016-12-07
PREV> Cory LeClair: review that and to ensure that the crosswalk exists so that we can do dual credit. The worst case that they would meet, they could be like. This worst case elective, but, best case, it actually could maybe count toward ICT or mathematics or something.
TEXT> Quick question. I'm just really cool idea from a cost standpoint when you're talking that $3,000 per student, is that for the year or is that for the entire.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: Well, for each student is for four years.

[R8794-106] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member (cost questions on Pathway to Success [201 | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: Exactly. That's one of the reasons the cost of the the whole program for cohort of 20 is about over $60,000.
TEXT> And that's, that's for the for the. Four years. 21st 20 students. Okay. That's not bad okay.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: In other words, with my contribution we are supporting three students all the way for four years.

[R8794-107] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: And that's, that's for the for the. Four years. 21st 20 students. Okay. That's not bad okay.
TEXT> In other words, with my contribution we are supporting three students all the way for four years.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we're also looking at different funding options. For students so that that's not so the cost. Does it become the barrier that we find ways to fund it so

[R8794-108] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Sprague: 'as Corey just said' [227] a | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: In other words, with my contribution we are supporting three students all the way for four years.
TEXT> So we're also looking at different funding options. For students so that that's not so the cost. Does it become the barrier that we find ways to fund it so that  the  talent is the driver as opposed to the funding source?
NEXT> Unidentified: You have to find. A greater.

[R8794-110] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'to your point. Thank y | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: You have to find. A greater.
TEXT> I do think we can make it work. It's you know, I think it's important in the market, but. And you did. Yeah. You did answer my question. I think I got I got a little caught too, caught up in narrowing my,  my focus on like Red River. But I think getting back to the more broad, broad point that you're making. Yeah, yeah. I just think it's important, I think for students to be kind of seeing the the career options out there. And I do like kind of seeing more of a focus kind of shifting to, computer programing into technology. And, and I mean, and even, you know, beyond that, but but looking at that bigger picture, just kind of branching out to the other.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: Yeah. I'm glad you mentioned that. One of the things that there is no promises again on.

[R8794-113] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Air,
TEXT> You're actually currently working the team is working on developing two new majors for River is a long process we have to go through  and has to be approved by all this. Seven vice President of academic affairs of the community system. I'm one of those seven. Are  you has to be approved by them and then goes to curriculum committee and goes to the chancellor and it goes to board of trustees. But one of those two majors is information technology. And that is going to be a general practitioner that understands network, understands databases, understands, for example, if you hire them, they know how to set up the firewall. They know how to set up this. They're not going to be network expert. They're going to be it. That is going to assuming that doesn't get approved, which I don't think I think is going to be approved, that probably we will switch from that network. We will make a decision the next couple of months or so. Which major we're going to go right now? The focus has been to do computer networking because we have a company here that needs that graduates, but we can change that. The ultimate thing for all of us, I think we are all on the same page is students.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: This is going to be good for a student. We figured out something that is going to work for a student when the students they graduate, they. I'm hoping that

[R8794-114] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: to go right now? The focus has been to do computer networking because we have a company here that needs that graduates, but we can change that. The ultimate thing for all of us, I think we are all on the same page is students.
TEXT> This is going to be good for a student. We figured out something that is going to work for a student when the students they graduate, they. I'm hoping that the day that they graduate and their diploma from your high school are at the same time, same place, or they move the graduation of River Valley and say, I got my associate degree as well. And by the way, this is happening around the country.  There are actually few projects that are going around that are high school students. They graduate the associate degree as well.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think another thing to keep in mind is the earlier we can help students see the importance of post high school training, and experiences in a in a way

[R8794-115] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Sprague: 'as Corey just said' [227] a | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: the graduation of River Valley and say, I got my associate degree as well. And by the way, this is happening around the country. There are actually few projects that are going around that are high school students. They graduate the associate degree as well.
TEXT> I think another thing to keep in mind is the earlier we can help students see the importance of post high school training,  and experiences in a  in a way that is comfortable and meaningful and relevant to them. The the more we're going to see them go on to those types of things. So and it's not just necessarily college, but different vocational training opportunities and institutional training opportunities beyond high school. If they can see themselves and the importance of that, there's more of a chance that they're going to pursue that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We just had a similar conversation is about six of us in here that were in the the last meeting. I think that Charlene, Alex, Eileen, myself, we've already had

[R8794-116] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (policy motions [355-396]; 'Frank's moti | 2016-12-07
PREV> Cory LeClair: to those types of things. So and it's not just necessarily college, but different vocational training opportunities and institutional training opportunities beyond high school. If they can see themselves and the importance of that, there's more of a chance that they're going to pursue that.
TEXT> We just had a similar conversation is about six of us in here that were in the the last meeting. I think that Charlene,  Alex, Eileen, myself, we've already had this discussion, but one of the things that that came up in our advisory board meeting tonight was how few people really understand what college is, and many people think that it's as I have conversations in my current role,  about $150,000 in debt in four years, and I like to use the as I had said earlier,  the phlebotomy example, which is a program up at River Valley Community College, which is exactly two classes, which results in a certificate. And so that's this end of the extreme. And then there are certificate programs which kids discover as we have conversations with them as Middleton, 1 to 1 conversations with kids, that this is something that I could do for about 4 or $5000 at full price,  come out and be completely employable in a medical office or in a business office. And so these conversations,  there are a lot of steps, as Corey just said, between a four year degree and some of these programs, that and licenses certificates that kids become immediately employable and at a really good rate of pay, very, very livable wages.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: I want to also add what Frank said and what the Corey said. This is again is not done deal. Yet one of the head of our students success under

[R8794-118] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: eight hours a day. What the goal was and met the goal was to expose them to different opportunities. They can decide. You know, I don't want to have anything to do with this one, but they wouldn't know that one until they get exposed.
TEXT> Therefore, that course when it's designed by these two individuals, it's going to be a great course. It's going to be offered as part of this particular program is not in that list yet because they're working on it, but it would become one of the first courses that the students they take to get exposed to companies,  take them out on, see different companies and figure out what they want to do with their life.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And what I find.

[R8794-124] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that we're not adding a layer here. We're not adding one more thing that we're going to do. This fits in beautifully with the direction during our five year plan toward excellence. And it is about, as I said earlier this evening, it's about students.
TEXT> And one thing that you were talking you were talking about costs everybody. All of a sudden I realized that I need to tell you that I didn't even think about it. Is books. He's a college books. As you know, books are generally very expensive. The courses that are usually teach a user open source textbooks free. But that doesn't necessarily mean true. In other words, that cost needs to be added and either a student has to pick them, pick up the cost, which I don't like that idea. It's too expensive. As you know, college, every  student pays probably anywhere from 500 to $1000 per semester for books. But I did not include that. And also, when I was talking to a good friend of mine at the charitable foundation trying to get some money from them, they actually said, oh, you didn't include any overhead. I said, because I'm going to do with the help of our team. You're going to do most of it ourselves. How about marketing? You know, I realized, yeah, probably we need to have some money down there, especially with the budget that we have these days, that river valley. We have to watch our budget. But, most of the cost is really for paying the cost of the tuition.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I thank you very much for coming. I think it's anything that we'll get early exposure to college is an exciting opportunity. I mean, my daughter was the first one

[R8794-125] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: know, I realized, yeah, probably we need to have some money down there, especially with the budget that we have these days, that river valley. We have to watch our budget. But, most of the cost is really for paying the cost of the tuition.
TEXT> I thank you very much for coming. I think it's anything that we'll get early exposure to college is an exciting opportunity. I mean, my daughter was the first one that went through Catch the Wave here through Stevens, and it was huge for her. When she walked into Nht, she was already hitting the ground running more than most. And that was it was a good thing. I wish more kids would take advantage of that. More parents take advantage of that.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: I'm glad you mentioned parents, because one of the things Doctor Herzog and the team we have been talking about is we keep concentrating on the students, the students, you

[R8794-128] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Parents are the ones that need to be educated. And Doctor Herzog and I and a few other people really working on trying to figure out what do we do. That's one of the reasons, when we make those presentation to our middle school students, the parents they need to be invited to, they will come and see, you know, what's going on, because they're the one  that ultimately they have to pay when they transfer to Nht. I'm assuming I still up to recently, I still was paying for my daughter's college.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R8794-131] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence (' | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: But, they need to be educated to have both of them on.
TEXT> And to me, the other piece of this puzzle, which is really exciting, finally, to see the college, Red River or the high school starting to work on that partnership. But but I'd remiss if I didn't throw my plug in. There's one bridge in this that I, I think is missing that I'd like to see us at some point put back in the mix, and that is bringing an IT program back into this tech center. Use that as the bridge. There are a lot of tech centers that I know of that they're working with River Valley, they're working with Nht that their their high school program is designed specifically to feed into the college. And there's a really huge partnership. And I know until now, Red River will get a lot of people from Nht I. So it's nice to see maybe we can always wanted us to bring them back here. But I still think in my heart of hearts that a tech center program would be the perfect bridge to fit right in the middle of all this, to create that program so kids could go and get everything they need from college before they graduate, have their certificates before they graduate, get the help desk and the customer service training, and hit the ground running at a red river right out of the gate.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So I would love to see us try to consider this is a perfect spot for that to fit, but I'm glad to see it starting to develop. I think

[R8794-136] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Exactly.
TEXT> I've been talking to Josh and couple other people on the. We need to take advantage of that. We can incorporate those stuff into any problem we do that the students as part of the internship, part of exposure, they can go do something here. They go to maker space and they start building.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I must say I to your point. Thank you. Patrick I see pathway to success. This this model fitting beautifully with where one of our objectives is which is which

[R8794-137] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: on the. We need to take advantage of that. We can incorporate those stuff into any problem we do that the students as part of the internship, part of exposure, they can go do something here. They go to maker space and they start building.
TEXT> I must say I to your point. Thank you. Patrick I see pathway to success. This this model fitting beautifully with where one of our objectives is which is which is the maximize the resource that we are in tonight. And to enhance the access of students, which is one of our projects going forward. So  again, I think that what we've talked about tonight and you've heard the expression the stars are aligning, I believe this tech center is one of those stars that is aligning with where this is evolving, knowing that it's not clear and crisp yet because it's still being formed. But I think the I'm very excited about the potential.
NEXT> Ali Rafieymehr: I think actually when we met. The Limit last week, you also talked about when we have a good sized cohort, if we get 5 or 6, I don't even

[R8794-138] Ali Rafieymehr | Vice President of Academic Affairs, River Valley Community College (su | 2016-12-07
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the stars are aligning, I believe this tech center is one of those stars that is aligning with where this is evolving, knowing that it's not clear and crisp yet because it's still being formed. But I think the I'm very excited about the potential.
TEXT> I think actually when we met. The Limit last week, you also talked about when we have a good sized cohort, if we get 5 or 6, I don't even know if we're going to continue with the program. But if we get 15 to 20 from here or combination of the schools, nothing is going to stop us from offering the class. That college course here. I think it's going to stop us from that. We won't do be able to do that for five students here. But if you have the whole class, why not? Why not here? Why not make it a space? Why not someplace else?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Of course, I expect there to be 20 students from Claremont School.

[R8794-139] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Sprague: 'as Corey just said' [227] a | 2016-12-07
PREV> Ali Rafieymehr: course here. I think it's going to stop us from that. We won't do be able to do that for five students here. But if you have the whole class, why not? Why not here? Why not make it a space? Why not someplace else?
TEXT> Of course, I expect there to be 20 students from Claremont School.
NEXT> Chris Irish: District over here.

[R8794-165] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: So we've done that at school attendance and academic eligibility policies.
TEXT> In 2012 and 2013. These two policies, school attendance and academic eligibility were approved. Three and four years later,  the school administration and staff will be working on revisions for the school attendance and academic eligibility. The whole theme of school attendance is obviously to encourage and support students to be in school. Academic eligibility is to support students when they are  being challenged by some of their coursework and to be eligible for whether it be an activity, one of the clubs, a sport sports team to be eligible if they're having challenges, working with the coach, working with the teacher, working with the administration to support them so those challenges become minimized. The goal is never to make a student ineligible, and the only time they could become ineligible is if they make the declaration. I'm not doing anything more. And I really, you know, I'm not invested in it and we haven't experienced that. But we stand at base grading and also with we are four years ago when this attendance policy was implemented, we've had we need to make some adjustments. And so working with the administration at the middle school as well as the high school, and also looking at the attendance policy at the elementary that was approved in 2015. We want to bring these back to you, to improve them and to make them more current to where we are going forward. So I just wanted to let you know about that, okay.
NEXT> Chris Irish: 418 Claremont School District Budget Stabilization Grant.

[R8794-206] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: You.
TEXT> As indicated here. Corey LeClaire working with, school board subcommittee, worked on the four policies public solicitation, the schools advertising and the schools employee gifts and solicitations and flier distribution policy. And then two policies are also  in front of you. Again, access to public school programs by nonpublic charter school and home educated pupils, as well as procedural safeguards for children with disabilities. And I certainly welcome any conversation or discussion regarding these policies.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Make a motion to do them all at once. Chris.

[R8794-210] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: were going to make the change and then we're going to talk more about it. And I think it was your show of equal access versus you're correct, just the adhering to the RSA on the access to public school program. Supposed to change that.
TEXT> If you look, Chris, I didn't change it. And this is why, unless the board wishes to if you look on the first page of this memo, page one where it says number 5JJJ. Access to public school programs by nonpublic charter school and home educated pupils prior to 8555 and essence. This new policy is response to House Bill 555, which amended the RSA to now include charter school students in the Equal Access to School District program statute. So there was some discussion about not putting in equal access. In essence, House Bill 555 required school districts to grant equal access of such programs to pupils attending private schools and pupils engaged in home schools provided. As it says here, the pupils were district students. Now this access includes charter school students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: What does it say? I know my hangup was it did not say equal in the RSA itself. I looked it up online that night. It didn't. It just said

[R8794-222] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes brief responses and votes from several pe | 2016-12-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: a board from some action resulting from due process or something like that, I presume. But I just find it. I find it mainly interesting that just that piece is there of special ed. So here we get a second. Are we still in conversation.
TEXT> Every discussion mode? Yes. You know, I remember our discussion with Chris about that word equal. I think it's a spirit of law versus letter of the law. In this I see with the letter of law in my mind, I see a student who takes a really great math class with a great instructor, and then a home school student wants that same access, but the class is full, so we provide them, you know, could they be arguing, hey, that's not equal access because it's a different instructor. And I wanted that instructor. And that's why I think that it's the splitting here is of the spirit of law being equal access. Yes. The letter law. How can it be held accountable? And I guess that's for the attorneys to figure out.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That's kind of my concern. It's the society we live in, is I. And I'll stick to my guns because I'm looking at the RSA again. There's nothing in the

[R8794-261] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yay. Yeah. That's amazing.
TEXT> We are. Except there there is a non public session for just a brief minute. But I would like to draw your attention. But we have been talking about many topics academic achievement goals, presentation involving students, measured growth in reading, math and writing is going to be starting in February.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I just add another,

[R8794-269] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [27-52]; chair: 'Doctor | 2016-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. That's okay.
TEXT> Because if  we're we're following the the direction we talked about for some time, which is discussing students growth,  at elementary, at middle and high school and having an ongoing discussion of that throughout the course of the year. As you can see with this schedule.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So can we do it justice in that amount of time? I mean, I mean, this is a really important topic.

[R8794-295] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes brief responses and votes from several pe | 2016-12-07
PREV> Chris Irish: So the way be really good is at the tech center. That's awesome. That's awesome. That's really cool.
TEXT> Really cool. Chris, can I add that I tended the title one grant that they received at Maple Avenue. Brian Rapp was there as well and went through that experience, and I thought it was very well put together program. And I think it's exactly what that the community needed. Their kids got to walk away with books. They had some great times and activities and it's just sparking that reading. Nice. Good. Awesome. Anything else.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We go into nonpublic under RSA 90.

[R8815-26] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], runs age | 2016-12-21
PREV> Unidentified: Motion to approve the minutes as presented. Thank you.
TEXT> Give a second, a second. Okay.  Any discussion changes on that? Okay. All in favor? Opposed. And I will abstain. I miss the meeting. And student representatives. Report.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: Good afternoon. So, at Stevens. We are in the festive Christmas spirit. And it all started with Monday. The candy cane grounds were passed out, which was a fundraiser put

[R8815-27] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (superintendent: 'I think M | 2016-12-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Give a second, a second. Okay. Any discussion changes on that? Okay. All in favor? Opposed. And I will abstain. I miss the meeting. And student representatives. Report.
TEXT> Good afternoon. So, at Stevens. We are in the festive Christmas spirit. And it all started with Monday. The candy cane grounds were passed out, which was a fundraiser put on by the junior class.  The National Honor Society yesterday went caroling to the Sullivan County nursing Home and also to Silver Maples on Washington Street, and we were received with smiles from everyone. It was a great experience. And then we, the National Honor Society, is also doing something this week. It was a fundraiser that was inspired last year by Hannah Scott and it was called Paid Up, Give It Forward. And this year,  every day this week, we've gone around during flex and we've asked kids if they could donate any bit of change, any money that they could towards a  faculty staff member whose wife is in the hospital. She's not doing too well, so the amount of money that has been donated is incredible. Just people giving whatever they have, whether it means them not getting a coffee from the theater department in the morning or missing out on food during lunch. It's really heartwarming. And then from the  elementary schools.  Dessner chorus members visited Elmwood home on Monday to spread some holiday cheer and share their musical talents.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: Dessner students and staff are excited to attend the shows holiday concert on Thursday. We are looking forward to our school assemblies on Friday, where our monthly student and staff

[R8815-31] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Yeah. Frank.' [42] -> [43]; sup | 2016-12-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah. Frank.
TEXT> Okay. I hate the opportunity. I'm going to piggyback on the Stevens report. I had the opportunity, not this Fridays ago, to take a group of students from another school down to Derry at Pinkerton. And there was a, as you know,  Johnston's run up, Johnston's The Ring and Rear Book people.  Had a back to school school climate rally, and there were kids there from everywhere, Canada and Connecticut, Massachusetts. And the place was full. And,  the there was a group of students there from Stevens High School with Mrs. Callison. And,  this was all about improving culture in your school and  how to bring your school together and Mrs. Cullis and gave me a hint. She came up and gave me a hug and said, wait till you see the video. So we're at a with all of these different schools, all the Massachusetts, Connecticut, Canada, everywhere. A couple thousand kids probably. And they showed the film of from the had been filmed at Stevens High School  of the dedication of  the celebration of Rick career in the gym and the ovation was just unbelievable, at that. And it made me proud to have.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: I can add a little bit on that because I was part of the National Honor Society. You put on that video and wanted to do the celebration for record.

[R8815-32] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (superintendent: 'I think M | 2016-12-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: thousand kids probably. And they showed the film of from the had been filmed at Stevens High School of the dedication of the celebration of Rick career in the gym and the ovation was just unbelievable, at that. And it made me proud to have.
TEXT> I can add a little bit on that because I was part of  the  National Honor Society. You put on that video and wanted to do the celebration for record.  And so what we did was we had  a bunch of students. First off, they gathered facts while I was the person who gathered the facts. So for every year of service that he did to Stevens, which was 32 years, we had a number of representing a fact about him. And so what we did was we had a big celebration where we told them that there was something wrong with the stage. Like, you need to come. We need to fix it. And so he's thinking that there's a problem that he has to fix. So he's coming. He's grumpy. So he gets on the stage  and we pull back the curtains and we have his favorite song, which was Humble and Pride by Tim McGraw, which I don't know if you guys have heard it.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: It's him to t everything that he believes in. And we had that song like playing and we had the whole entire student body, which was very quiet, which I've

[R8815-33] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (superintendent: 'I think M | 2016-12-21
PREV> Marion Lovett: he has to fix. So he's coming. He's grumpy. So he gets on the stage and we pull back the curtains and we have his favorite song, which was Humble and Pride by Tim McGraw, which I don't know if you guys have heard it.
TEXT> It's him to t everything that he believes in.  And we had that song like playing and we had the whole entire student body, which was very quiet, which I've never seen before. And they were very quiet. So when we pulled open the curtains, they all started cheering for him and clapping for him. And it moved his heart. I know, because hearing him talk about it after that was one of the nicest things that we  as a school district had done for him. And so  many businesses in town like 100 Mile Market,  the Claremont Spice Goods, the, just,  just a whole bunch of people came together. But the wine shop and they donated gifts for him, that and Java Cup. So he would have because he's into cooking and he loves doing that stuff at home. So not only was it a thank you from our school was a thank you from the community. So it was presented at Pinkerton Academy where Mike Smith was speaking, and everyone was impressed with our school. So to show that our school district is an impressive place is a great thing to be a part of.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Made me proud. I know that.

[R8815-44] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [63-71]; 'Middleton.' [ | 2016-12-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Player.
TEXT> From JV to varsity. And that bank was much more than  about football. It was about the young men or Claremont students, student athletes, and what they're really all about and who they are. So it was a it was a great night, a great night for the Claremont School District and really the city of Claremont. That was on December 18th. On December 15th, Marian Lovett and I were live on WTK Keith Hanson radio show, and Keith Hanson wanted to talk to Marion,  about her experience going in March down to Washington, DC, being selected one of two students in the state. Marion did a terrific job.  So there's your academics and the arts. Tonight is the last of several concerts the Stevens High School concert, December 8th,  the annual holiday concert. The Stevens High School oratorio was packed, absolutely packed,  and the middle school and the elementary schools have had their concerts with the last one tonight. So the three A's, the academics, the arts and the athletics were alive and well. And the ship is turning. And it's very exciting. It's very exciting.  I'm also very pleased to tell the community that we are wrapping up our collective bargaining with our respective units or associations.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And, we're very pleased that we're coming to closure and have reached agreements, and we'll be discussing that more publicly in early January. And last but not least, tonight we're

[R8815-47] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Pierce: 'Straight there, Chris.' [3 | 2016-12-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? And thank you for your report.
TEXT> Somebody raised a question the other day that about the. One wanting to have a venue for showing more student art, like visual arts. And, how did you think thinking, thinking about the, upper house? Because they have that that get like, don't know if they called a gallery, but it's a gallery. I so one question was, do we already have like a,  a. Time of the year when we do a student art exhibit and it and it not. I mean I, I,  I was interested whether that was something we'd be able to kind of set up at some time, some time with the  Claremont Opera House about having, having a student, art show.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: You have something.

[R8815-54] Marion Lovett | Stevens High School student representative (superintendent: 'I think M | 2016-12-21
PREV> Chris Irish: To.
TEXT> Just to mention about that at the National Honor Talent Show that we have every year, we do a art exhibit showcase so you can do a walk through of all the art pieces that are put there from students who want to showcase it. And there's actually a raffle.  And so I know this year someone did a Batman piece,  and Zach O'Brien loved it. And he won it for $20 because he put all of his raffle tickets in it. So we do try to showcase it. Julia mackey, she actually said it on business, and it kind of spurned off of that little gallery because she made cards and people were like, oh my gosh, I love this. And they were emailing her. So we are trying to connect with the academics and  the arts. And so I do see a lot of it at Stevens.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah. And I think this is more on a community interest because I guess technically we do have a gallery in Claremont, if you count if you count that at

[R8815-55] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Pierce: 'Straight there, Chris.' [3 | 2016-12-21
PREV> Marion Lovett: that little gallery because she made cards and people were like, oh my gosh, I love this. And they were emailing her. So we are trying to connect with the academics and the arts. And so I do see a lot of it at Stevens.
TEXT> Yeah. And I think this is more on a community interest because I guess technically we do have a gallery in Claremont, if you count if you count that at the opera house. But  I remember seeing the they have that gallery in Newport attached to, to Richard's library is that, you know, Richard. Yeah. And that's such a phenomenal asset to have. And they will do I mean, they do various, exhibits, but they've, they've done some I believe that they've done some student exhibits there as well. And it just it seems like it seems like I'd like to have something like that in the city. In the same time, I imagine we have so many great gifted students, students doing art in our community, and a lot of don't always get to see it. Or there are a lot of people in the community don't get to see it unless they go into the school. I'd like to get it out of the school, so that was my thought.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: To get together.

[R8815-61] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Yes' when 'Doctor.' is called  | 2016-12-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: That.
TEXT> They use for the elementary students. My daughter does an.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Art.

[R8815-80] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Yes' when 'Doctor.' is called  | 2016-12-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: All the team. The team is great. Yes. Can't do anything without a good team.
TEXT> And I'd like to make a mention for  Claremont. First night coming up on December 31st. There is going to be a punch of activities and many for kids of all ages.  So if you're in Claremont on December 31st, activities start at around 6:00.  And some earlier than that. Bowling, bounce house, fun, all these kinds of tubing. I encourage you to take a look at that. Look it up online. You'll see signs in the community. Do we have all those, community members will see. I'll share. If you see this in a window would be a sponsorship supporting until they may be able to give a discount to you. If you have one of these wonderful buttons that are available. And I will plug my daughter Aubrey, who designed the artwork, thanks to the support from Maple Ave Elementary School and the art teacher there.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So thank you. Thank you Alex. Anyone else for citizens comments that will close citizens comments. Now we have a public take a motion for nonpublic for RSA 91 a

[R8815-100] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Discussion items project lead the way. Grant.
TEXT> So, Maple Avenue had applied for and has been awarded a grant in the amount of $5,000 from hypothermia Hope Foundation. And so we're going to talk about this in a moment. And action items as well, because I will be asking the board to accept this donation. The Hope Foundation is supporting Maple Avenue, Maple Avenue School's goal of offering extended day opportunities to students. And the purpose of the grant is to bring in Project Lead the Way launch program. So we've often talked at the board level about Project Lead the Way. It's really an initiative to promote, education and learning in the areas of science, technology, engineering and math. And so the launch program is the elementary version  of Project Lead the Way. Am it's a hands on, science based program. So from the Project Lead the Way website, this is all from Principal Cherry. The K to five students, already have the qualities of great designers and innovators. What project lead the way launch does is tap into their exploratory nature, engage them in learning that feels like play, and encourage them to keep discovering now and for years to come.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The way launches 24 interdisciplinary modules bring learning to life. The program empowers students to adopt a design thinking mindset through compelling activities, projects, and problems that build upon each

[R8815-101] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: to five students, already have the qualities of great designers and innovators. What project lead the way launch does is tap into their exploratory nature, engage them in learning that feels like play, and encourage them to keep discovering now and for years to come.
TEXT> The way launches 24 interdisciplinary modules bring learning to life. The program empowers students to adopt a design thinking mindset through compelling activities, projects, and problems that build upon each other and relate to the world around them. And as students engage in hands on activities in computer science, engineering, and biomedical science, they become creative, collaborative problem solvers ready to take any challenge. So this is the,  elementary lead into science, inquiry, problem solving, experimenting, critical thinking, and pre-engineering skills. They are looking. Maple is looking to establish an after school program beginning in mid January, and the funds would be used to help offset the cost of the staff member to staff that program and supplies.  So when we get to action items, I will be asking the board to accept that donation.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So any questions.

[R8815-112] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [63-71]; 'Middleton.' [ | 2016-12-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you. We have our budget meeting schedule on.
TEXT> The third page, if I may. And the third page, you have the school board meetings from January to June. Then you have the budget meeting schedule. And this has been revised last week from what you saw previously. January 4th, we the students return on January 3rd in Claremont. On January 4th is a school board meeting. The administration is going to be meeting January 4th in the morning. We meet the first and third Wednesday of every month.  Our focus is going to be on the budget. We'll talk about the budget a little bit later. But,  I don't believe the administrators are going to be spending time reviewing each one of their budgets. They're going to be here rather to have a discussion with you, because as you're going to see,  what the administrators have put into the budget, we're going to have to make some I believe we're going to be making some adjustments to. So I've told the administration to please be present on January 4th, where we can have a discussion with the board. However, because of the fact that we need to have a deliberative session on February 8th and we have to have a public hearing on January 11th. Public hearing doesn't mean that we're going to have a finished budget, but it means that we need to tell the community where we are as of the second week in January, as we move toward February 8th,  and because of.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The time factor and because of some of the work that needs to be done, I have put in a placeholder of Saturday, January 7th, and if you note the

[R8815-145] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Isn't there a threshold at which over a certain number of days they need to be certified, though?
TEXT> There is and there are, some requirements that we've had, we've been governed by in the past. And some of that has changed with the reauthorization of the  Elementary and Secondary Education Act. So,   in the in the past, we've had to require substitutes in long term positions to be highly qualified over a certain threshold of days. And if they weren't highly qualified, we had to notify all of the parents in the classes for which the students were being taught by a Non-Highly qualified person for that period of time. So, you know, we would look for people who are identified as highly qualified. This is a transition year. That legislation ended about halfway through our hiring season. And so, those staff who we hired early on in the season for this school year were still under those requirements. And the staff we hired later in the season were technically not. And so the  Department of Education sort of advised us to just continue to consider HCT as a requirement for this school year, and then hopefully they will come out with guidance for next school year. As to what we need to do with that, but it will as of right now, it's no longer a federal requirement.
NEXT> Unidentified: But I mean.

[R8815-329] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I'm going to defer to  | 2016-12-21
PREV> Chris Irish: We're not a million in the hole or whatever. We you know, we're three point is a lot. It's an increase, but it's not a bad increase to start with. And if we can whittle away, we're still in pretty good shape, right.
TEXT> So if we start with this ten page document, what this document does is, is it is it sorts by function. Okay. So your normal functions, for those of you who haven't been to the process before, 1100 is your regular education expenses. 1200 special Ed 1300 your tech editor 1400 shares Athletics. You don't use 15, 16, 17 or 18 2100. Your student supports 2200. Is professional development 2300, school board, 2415 level administration, and so on. So this report takes that 67 page report and basically looks at where the changes are coming from. So if you start with page one the first line says personal services employee. And it's got nothing on it. But I just want to make everybody on the right page with me. The function is 0430 will be all in the same swap call. Budget summary 1718 be one. So. So the  first line item is is personal services salaries. That's up $204,000 in regular education. Like I said, mainly driven by high school and driven by taking the people who are currently in the positions now, we didn't add positions, but there was some turnover from last year's budget. So that's always going to impact the next year's budget.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: When you when you when you run forward. Personal services employees is up 82,000. Benefits is up $82,000. We talked about the insurance and the retirement. Now, the the 300,

[R8815-346] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Thank you. Corey.' [6] -> tak | 2016-12-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: So is Maple still floating? They still have powers that float.
TEXT> In most cases, I believe. Yes. In some cases they  do not. So it's it's not just one reason with the pairs. And I can't speak to all the reasons. I'm not the director of special ed. I do know that another  phenomenon that occurred was in Maple, for instance, when, we identified the number of parapets that could be cut. Those positions were technically long term substitutes filling those positions. So when they were cut from the budget, they didn't actually come off the para salary line because they were  in the substitute line because they were long term subs. Those positions  had gone unfilled. And so there was some of that that happened as well  throughout the process in identifying pairs. So I know that at Maple, we very closely looked at every IEP, identified when every child needed hair support, what kind of support they needed, and created a plan to help reduce  the number of total pairs in that building. That was done at bluff as well, and I believe the plan is to go through with more of fine tooth comb and other schools as we move forward to ensure that the pair coverage matches what is required  in the IEP.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And I think when we we meet next time, I hope that, Chris can be here to speak to what the needs are currently of the students and what the

[R8815-350] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'To totally agree, Patr | 2016-12-21
PREV> Michael O'Neill: up up up up up. So so so I'm happy to see that that's offsetting some of the other increases. Supplies is up 7000 again right across everybody increased it by 10 to 12%. So overall special education is adding 576,000 013 to the budget.
TEXT> Is there any are we able to look at the at the savings of our district costs? Because, I mean, we're putting those costs back in, in terms of, in. I mean, we have savings from out of district costs, but then we're have we're also spending to some degree on, you know,  servicing students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And what we were trying to do was, was.

[R8815-352] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I'm going to defer to  | 2016-12-21
PREV> Chris Irish: And what we were trying to do was, was.
TEXT> We knew that that was going to cost us. And we're currently in the process of of, you know, some of the additions at the high school were for for alternative education programs and stuff with an eye towards doing that. We have obviously seen some success with the reductions we're seeing now. So some of these programs that we've been spending money on, and it's always hard to say, well, if I spend 50001 to save 100,000 here, but we are seeing some reduction which is which is a good thing. I'm happy to see that, that some of those programs are working at bringing kids back. The next one is, is 1230 is just a function for. Oh, that's it's a, it's a, it's another sped up. It's only up 588 in total, 1290 is basically your summer school  and your, so your summer school, your wages are up $15,000, benefits are up 46, 31 and supplies are down 500. And that's just based on what we actually spent last summer on the staffing. The cost of the of the program was $100,000. Last year we had been budgeting less than that. So that's why you're seeing an increase of 15,000 there. Next is vocational. So what you see in there is basically, the budgets flat. The overall all the lines are only up 83, 93. Salaries are down. Benefits are up slightly.  Supplies are up in properties up. So that's that's where the 8393 and vocational.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Mike what is property there. Again.

[R8815-452] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I'm going to defer to  | 2016-12-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. I guess that's that's what surprised me. I kind of thought that we we wouldn't have moved.
TEXT> So that's why if you look overall, operation of maintenance and plants up 102,000 to 84, so, so we are seeing we are seeing certainly seeing some savings on utilities. We see the reduction in the other purchase services. And we continue to renegotiate our electric contracts and get better deals. Propane is cheap right now or else cheap right now. And, you know, does appear to be a little older this year than last year. So I didn't go all the way back. Overall student transportation is down 28, 720. At some point, there's going to have to be a discussion about, purchasing some new busses, but I think we can make it through another year without doing that because we still have two. We still have one lease payment left on each of the propane busses. So that's that's $40,000. That's reflected in this budget for the payment of those leases. But overall transportation is still down 28, seven, 20, most of that driven by savings in fuel costs because the fuel costs are down undesignated 2740. Do I make that up?
NEXT> Unidentified: Does he know? We said that out loud?

[R8845-4] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes; superintendent: ' | 2017-01-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Pierce. Frank Sprague here. And Brian Mann here.
TEXT> I'm a shell.  Did contact me. She's home with a  sick child so she could make it tonight. Excuse me. So we have a. Let's see. Here we go. Oh,  and looking at my email.  Brant has some stuff to take care of you. He also said he could not make it tonight. So we have,  An agenda. We have a couple of additions. We do, if I may, we to discuss collective bargaining. We need to enter.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Into a non public. I sent you documentation yesterday evening around 7:00. But we need to discuss some financials with you. And these agreements, with the exception of the paraprofessionals,

[R8845-21] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes; superintendent: ' | 2017-01-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'll second.
TEXT> Thank you. Any other discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Thank you. Student representatives report. Good evening.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good evening. So I don't have a long one for you tonight, but the theater department is putting on the play the 12th, 13th, 14th and the 13th at seven.

[R8845-30] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: A few others.
TEXT> Yes. Good representation representing Claremont and also being a part  of this. And what are the elements and symptoms of this problem? The problem we're addressing high turnover rates in some district superintendents. Principal staff challenges of recruitment. The lead for the need for long term rather than short term visions and commitment, effective school leadership, difficult public meeting climate. And it goes on and on. So this is a collaborative effort with other districts, a limited number of districts working with the New Hampshire School Administrators Association, as well as Nellie May to be a part of this discussion and look forward to having school board representation as we address some of these important issues. I also am very pleased to hold up  a periodical image, and my wife receives this and going through it. Over the weekend, I came across a fascinating article that I have to share with you. A renaissance in higher education. River Valley Community College and I'll pass this around to you. But I want to share something with you.  Alex Herzog, vice president for student and community affairs.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I know.

[R8845-76] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Clearly.
TEXT> School boards have a legal responsibility. In fact, it's even a constitutional duty to ensure that students within the district received their entitlement to an adequate education. So that's why your position is such an important position. And that's why you oftentimes here policy and budget are the two main charges  of of  of this local school board. The challenge however, is and I'm going to talk about this a little bit later, is that there are times when certain hands are dealt to you as a local board,  by lack of funding, that that can create a great deal of challenges. I think it's important just to have a quick review of the past five years, because I know that there's been a great deal of discussion in the Claremont community regarding the tax rate, and I just want to not in a way of being defensive, but just want to review that. The Claremont School Board,  working with the staff, have have made a sincere effort to keep the budget within a reasonable range. Fiscal year 12, my first year, fiscal year 13.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The fiscal year 13 budget, we had an increase of less than 1%. And then the following fiscal year, an increase of 1%. Now the year after that, 5.8%. And

[R8845-81] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-47]; 'Fiscal year 1 | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: school board regarding the fiscal year 18 budget. And in this case, we're going to make an effort to take the $553,000 increase, adding the collective bargaining to that, and then how we can offset that with some strategic restructuring. You've heard me say before.
TEXT> The worst thing you can do with a budget is just to reduce it as if it was a math problem, because every reduction has an impact. Our goal is to take the budget, working with the principals and identify areas that should change, areas that we can be more fiscally responsible, especially with whether it be class size, whether it be some programs that are no longer meeting the needs of students. And these are the these are the kind of discussions we will be having in preparation for the January 11th, 2017 public hearing. But that being said, I am under the assumption and I knit why I needed the school board's response that an increase, a large increase, is not desirable for the community in the budget. So we are going to be working toward coming back with recommendations, how we can minimize that impact if the board supports that. The worst thing that can happen for us is for the board to say nothing, to have us do due diligence, and then toward the end of January. By the way, you need to reduce the budget more. So we need to have a sense that  we are we're going is an attempt to minimize the impact on the tax rate unless we hear differently from the board.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So January 11th is when a week from tonight is when we'll have a public hearing and when we will be discussing some strategic changes. And those strategic changes, once

[R8845-218] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Mike, could you explai | 2017-01-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: What is that. That's Medicaid. That's that's Medicaid okay.
TEXT> Medicaid.  It's our online with with MSP they go into Lumia which is a online and they go in and they have to log  hours that towers are working specifically with kids though, so we can get Medicaid reimbursement from that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And how is that is that monitored pretty tightly? I mean, is that all gets filled.

[R8845-322] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes; superintendent: ' | 2017-01-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Stewards of the taxpayers dollars.
TEXT> So another thing, we've talked for a couple of years about trying to maximize the use and potential revenue of this building.  Is there a way to get more use out of this building? Is there a way maybe to make. Make it so that kids at the high school, there could be a little bit more fluidity with their classes, maybe, you know, to take electives up here to get more use out of the building where maybe necessary, not necessarily have to take them at the high school. Is that something that could be looked at?
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think you're limited by the type of class in the building, because it's because of the tech center.

[R8845-324] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Who wants to get this started,  | 2017-01-04
PREV> Chris Irish: I think you're limited by the type of class in the building, because it's because of the tech center.
TEXT> We used to have kids take computer applications here.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: As long as you're not displacing a current program or preventing a another CTE program from coming in. So we couldn't say no. Doug Morton, you can't teach your plumbing

