[R17037-172] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: Oh.
TEXT> Go with the student services.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. You had the technology?

[R17037-182] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: Right. Okay. So that would be one of those student services, right. I'm going to push back.
TEXT> It's in my experience that's the model for student services. Okay. Yeah.  Now it's questionable whether you need to. I'm just going to say it  to administrators.  In the next year or two. Okay. And so that may be a position that is on the table.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. May I just review what I have to see if it's correct? You have a superintendent with an admin. You've got to be a with an assistant.

[R17037-187] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Sub-Committee Chair (presiding) | 2025-12-12
PREV> Matt Angell: So we be.
TEXT> Payroll clerk? Yes. Okay. So,  So that's okay. Superintendent with an admin, be a with two supporting staff. HR with a supporting staff person.  Student services with an.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Two assistant director and then.

[R17037-215] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay.
TEXT> Make a decision with other staffing areas because we're making a lot of changes this year. And and what I would say to that is, is maybe give up the assistant,  for student services for to,  curriculum coordinators. I've talked to. Her about this.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. So we've got so. We have the student services person, the assistant and two admins in the student. Assistants configuration as we're proposing. Yeah. We also have a curriculum

[R17037-216] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Sub-Committee Chair (presiding) | 2025-12-12
PREV> Matt Angell: Make a decision with other staffing areas because we're making a lot of changes this year. And and what I would say to that is, is maybe give up the assistant, for student services for to, curriculum coordinators. I've talked to. Her about this.
TEXT> Okay. So we've got so. We have the student services person, the assistant and two admins in the student. Assistants configuration as we're proposing. Yeah. We also have a curriculum director.,
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Slash grants manager.

[R17037-454] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Talking instead of having chorus after school? It's part of the program.
TEXT> No. I'm saying, well, if I look at the program of studies and we have X number of art, you know, offerings if we are  exceeding minimum standards, because what I feel we do often or like what we're doing right now,  is we are meeting minimum standards, which I agree with. You are simply that and not acceptable standards, but allows us to be maintain our accreditation and to be recognized as a A, providing the students what they technically are required to be provided. But if we are  exceeding in our  art and and I'm not, I'm very pro art and yada yada. However, if we are failing academically, should we not use the resources if we're going to do minimum standards anywhere, anywhere? I would like to do maximum standards somewhere else. And so my maximum standards are squeezing as much as we can academically. If we're having this bundle of funds that is going to art or  the arts. Can we move some of that to academic programing and increase programmatic space in the schedule?
NEXT> Matt Angell: Yes.

[R17037-531] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: However, times have changed.
TEXT> Access to all.  I'm not saying that that's what we should do. I'm saying that if this was a value that the board had and we have been talking about this for years, then we I feel like it's worthy of attention moving forward because that's a that is a high risk group of kids. And those are our vulnerable students that went up going out of district, which cost us more money. And so that was the plan. And, you know, and we I still believe in the plan is just making sure we budget for it and make sure we right staff it.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And however however, because of this past year's, Fiasco activity, we have an additional school building that might be available. I'm talking about bluff. We do not have an elementary

[R17037-545] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Sub-Committee Chair (presiding) | 2025-12-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: But but we were the estimate we were provided was we could bring back almost 1.2 and out of district savings if we had the right.
TEXT> To students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: 1.2 million.

[R17037-559] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Because you.
TEXT> Don't have because we won't have the volume of students.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. And that's why if you were to go and put it into like a special education collaborative where you're drawing in from the other schools.

[R17037-563] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged into the Speaker 3 cluster — adm | 2025-12-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: Region ten agreement basically.
TEXT> Yes. And so you're you're giving some options. Well I mean sort of but you know, you're giving some ability to  when I say trade, but we have a spot for an autistic student and you have a spot and we have a need. And then we're, we're offsetting the tuition and things like that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Bartering services, service, bartering.

[R17037-580] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged into the Speaker 3 cluster — adm | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Okay.
TEXT> And we do have options that we looked at and discussed. You know we would love to see like a CDL program the tech center a pair of training program in the tech center. Some other options. But then we have to figure out the students that sitting in different spaces where is the best place for them.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Right. So now we're working with a supplant. We're supplanting tech program issues. We had a we had a lot of conversation. So that's why I'm bringing it up, Candy.

[R17037-585] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right. Okay.
TEXT> All right. You know, when I'm hearing your conversations, I don't think anyone ever brought up the idea that you're losing students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What do you mean? What do you mean, losing students?

[R17037-586] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member (same voice | 2025-12-12
PREV> Matt Angell: All right. You know, when I'm hearing your conversations, I don't think anyone ever brought up the idea that you're losing students.
TEXT> What do you mean? What do you mean, losing students?
NEXT> Matt Angell: Well, I mean, the ten year model. I mean, you're going to have a thousand kids in ten years.

[R17037-587] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: What do you mean? What do you mean, losing students?
TEXT> Well, I mean, the ten year model. I mean, you're going to have a thousand kids in ten years.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yeah.

[R17037-593] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Sub-Committee Chair (presiding) | 2025-12-12
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> Okay. So what. So I think what you're saying is that if you're going from 1400 to 1000 students over ten years. Yes. The proportion right now, if there are 100 kids in the tech and proportionately, that would drop it down to 75. And in ten years. Yeah. Okay. I would argue that you would content because of the nature of our population. Yeah.  We would we would still have 100 and maybe more  in the tech program in the future. I proportionately.
NEXT> Matt Angell: I've said this, I've said this privately. My crystal ball on the tech is there's going to be more emphasis on the tech.

[R17046-8] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: I chatted with Miss Kennedy before the meeting, and you had something that you wanted to add as well.
TEXT> To see if we could just the technical advisory quickly about the, what just came out. It sports everything videoed.  Would you would it be possible for us to put that at the end of the gender? Is there any action to that? No. So that would be  item ten. Would again, would you repeat the technical advisory regarding video recording of students. Is it other business. Do we need to make a decision? It's going to be an item.  Just came out. I'm just making sure of it. So where are you? Where are we placing it? On the agenda. Number ten. Item number ten. After the Nonpublic and the school board. Thank you. Is there any objection to the amendments that have been made or the change in order? Are all  in agreement of approving the 12 through 25 minutes without amendments. Everybody's good. Seeing no objection. The agenda is amended, as noted, and the minutes are approved. The next item on the agenda is citizens comments for  non  agenda items. Is there anyone who would like to speak to a non agenda item recognizing that that three minutes is three minutes. Yeah they're like all right I don't want there to be any.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Yeah. No works. Don level at Ward two. During the last meeting you had a lively discussion about the search and for a superintendent and a hiring process. And a

[R17046-11] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1; special education teacher | 2025-12-17
PREV> Don Lavalette: current model has not helped our students, our educators, or our taxpayers. It has been a failure. And in closing, I want to thank those folks that are on the retirement list tonight. That's, quite a lot of knowledge it's leaving us. Thanks. Thank you.
TEXT> Figured I would just form a line. Matt Bean, Ward one. I rise this evening. First, for a point of clarification, since last week, my stipend earnings were blasted on. What's up? Claremont? I would just like to make something crystal clear. I coach four teams for the Claremont School District. I coached J.V. and varsity football as well as unified and varsity track. I had been in a coach in the Claremont School District for ten years. I've always worked incredibly hard in order to earn what I what I make from coaching. And if you really do the math, it's probably like $2 an hour. I this act continued a trend of feeling under pressure by the Claremont School District throughout my time as an educator in the district. I constantly was there in times of need. Amen. Can you work with the student? Amen. Can you work in this program today? Amen. Can you chaperon this field trip? Amen. Can you ride with a child to their placement? Matt, will you be in charge of a difficult, self-contained program in your first year of teaching? I even came through through the district in an emergency situation.
NEXT> Matt Bean: My thanks for all that work. Was being lied to by the former HR director and being told I was not a good fit by someone who never worked in

[R17046-17] Shayla Duran | Public commenter; interim plumbing/heating instructor, Sugar River Val | 2025-12-17
PREV> Karen Gherardi: And I think it's disgusting. I also think that kids are not being treated the way they should. They're not getting the services they need. Not at all. And I don't know who thinks they are. But you're in your own world because they're not.
TEXT> Wasn't really planning on speaking, but Matt got me wild up a little bit.  So my name is Shayla Duran. I am  a temporary the plumbing heating teacher here at the tech.  I came in last minute when the  former teacher left.  I'm teaching two classes at the same time. Two different levels, two different curriculums.  And trying to do that with no budget. I'm here and doing that because I care about this program. This program got me where I was and countless other students.  I would encourage the board to look at opening up  negotiations with the Sri. Because right now the I think the current C collective bargaining agreement really makes finding teachers for the tech even more difficult  with the way that that structure was changed, as it is, having someone come in for these,  these programs, you're asking them to take a huge pay cut, even if they were to come in at top scale. And with the new CBA from a couple of years ago, it is basically an insult. Those teachers and these programs, and if you guys care and the community cares about these programs, you guys need to be able to find adequate teachers. And I would love to do it. I'm willing to come in and do it at a huge financial loss to myself, but I can't do it at like a 75% pay loss to come in at like a ten year teacher scale.
NEXT> Shayla Duran: Because that's not what my skill set and, and education and experience. And that's not what the market rate is for me or most of the other teachers at the

[R17046-29] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Angell: 21 million. 21. Okay. So that. Yeah, that's until the end of the year. Yeah. That's okay. It would include payroll from now to the end of the year. Okay. Yep.
TEXT> Everybody okay?  All right. Thank you.  Next item on the agenda is follow up items. And, Miss Hawkins, if I remind me, so I don't know. Okay. First is professional development update.  Building principles are meeting on.  And this information that I'm sharing has been shared to me  by Miss Kennedy. Great.  Building principles are meeting on December 18th to develop a professional development calendar for this year and next year. Title nine  on December 8th. Every principal is trained on title nine. Investigations. Every building will have its own investigator now and this is considered a best practice model. It's not finished. The training, just for the record, is the training. But we will have everyone. Every building will have a title nine investigator. We want to make formal welcomes again to Miss Paige Jarvis and to the role of Super Students Services Director and Jason Bonneville as Director of Technology. And we also are happy to announce that Scott Mabel will be our attendance officer  this year. Okay.  Superintendent. Superintendent. Advisory committee. Also on the eighth, the Superintendent Advisory Committee met potential school reconfigurations options were discussed, as well as a review of free and reduced lunch form completion strategies. D Skinner presented an educational video to train mentor families and community partners on how to fill out those forms.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I also spoke with Josh Nelson briefly about, issues with audio or folks not being able to hear in the back of the room. Apparently we had investigated getting speakers

[R17046-36] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: speak for other members on the board, which would be an appropriate. So if you get these generic kind of responses or non, satisfying responses, it's somewhat intentional because I don't want to misspeak for other members of the board. So thank you for that.
TEXT> And the last thing was that there was a question brought up about  15 of our identified prekindergarten students not receiving services, and I'm wondering if that can be looked into by the administration.  If there are, in fact, youngsters not getting their required services.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's it.

[R17046-41] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Could you speak up?
TEXT> Sarah Ferland. Is. A school counselor at CMS, and she's been working with the Mount Saint Ski group in Mount Saint be for skiing. And so they had a proposal together to see if we would be willing to accept some money that would help allow our CMS students to go skiing. It's been a program that's in the past that's been happening.  We would like to continue it. So what just a quick overview. So it's one day a week for five weeks the students would be missing some classes. So from 830 to 1245  they would head to Mount Sunup. They would go skiing.  It was a  form that went out to folks to sign up, and they were able to put in some things if they needed some financial assistance. We'll get into that in a moment.  So just some questions I know people have about what does it look like? How is it working in things? So,  students would come to the regular day once they got back from the ski program, so they would start their day skiing.  And so why? Because this is the northern New England.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We wanted to make sure we take advantage of it. It's not something that's available in many parts of the country. So to be able to support our local economy

[R17046-43] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: number of students that were able to participate. We had opened it up to 46 students and there were two busses and, but we only had enough space to fill one bus, so we had to cut off some, cut off some of the students.
TEXT> So,  this was in  because of a generous donation from the son of his ski club, and we would like to see if we could look into this.  There was financial aid available for those that, you know, said that they might need it. So when parents signed up, they had to check off whether they were self paying or whether financial assistance was needed. They tried to get enough money through the ski club, which they did, and that would cover the students.  They initially did not get completely enough, but they were able to look for the counties. And so we're hoping to hear back just everything else for that. So right now the ski equipment is not allowed on the bus itself, but it's Ferland is able to we originally wasn't we found a bus that does allow for the ski equipment. And so it can just go on the side.  So we don't need to use a personal vehicle for that. The, transportation will be included in this  funding. So each student was able to take a weekly lesson. They were able to do the program options,  and there was something about an add on. And so basically, if they have an epic pass and it's not to be as part of the Epic program, they can use their pass to participate in this.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so it's not an add on to pay for the lesson itself or the ski lift, I should say the lift itself. And so they were able to get

[R17046-44] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: They were able to do the program options, and there was something about an add on. And so basically, if they have an epic pass and it's not to be as part of the Epic program, they can use their pass to participate in this.
TEXT> And so it's not an add on to pay for the lesson itself or the ski lift, I should say the lift itself. And so they were able to get this going. So it was originally  Monday's. It was on Wednesdays. The chaperons are there.  And so it is a cashless  option. So they are levels of snowboarding and skiing have been updated. And so originally when it was asked, you know what on the form, what type of level you have when you go to actually fill it out online with their their registration process, they actually let you say what kind of a ski snowboarder, a skier you are and things. So it's tailored to their needs and things.  And so we're looking for exceptions of a $4,000 donation from the Mount Centerpiece Ski Club for this. And that would allow the students to have the ability to get there and then to be able to participate in the ski program. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I did hear that we had. Perhaps a Kiwanis donation as well. So is that did that actualize or.

[R17046-55] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Anybody else is eligible. In other words. Okay. Thank you. I just want to make sure. Sure.
TEXT> Making equitable for students to be able to attend.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Would anyone like to make a motion to accept the donation of $4,000 from the Mount Centerpiece Ski Club? I'm just going to make a motion. We'll second, we're going

[R17046-102] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: be aware of the following premises on which the budgets were built. Number one, there is no reduction in existing teaching staff. There is a redeployment of staff in an effort to improve student achievement by using reassigned staff to work on tier two interventions.
TEXT> Second, the budget includes pay increases for bargaining groups with multi-year approved contracts, including teachers and paraprofessionals. For nonunion employees. A 3% increase is budgeted. Next budget. Next item the budget includes a 11.8% increase in health care costs. This amounts to an estimated $600,000 in increased cost. Approximately 250 employees are covered with this insurance. The most popular plan has costs of 16,500 approximately for one person plan, $33,000 for a two person plan, and 44,000 $45,000 for a family plan. These are contractual obligations. Next point there is funding for full year science and social studies at grade seven and eight. Next item the machine tool instructor at the Tech Center is fully funded. No other changes at the Tech Center. Next item the alternative education programs for middle and high school students move out of the tech center, and we think into Bluff School. The next one, funding for athletics and music arts programs is restored. Next, there is a classroom for preschool students. That that includes identified and non identified students. Next item. There are no student service interns. Next item. There is no money budgeted for any upgrades or repairs for any of our old school buildings. Additionally, as you are aware of the say, the Supervisory Administrative unit changes on July 1st,  unity is leaving the saw.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right now, the, say you budget is about $2 million. Unity contributes 10% of those funds. And so with their leaving, that is a deficit of 10% of 2 million

[R17046-106] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Yes. You echoed.
TEXT> So just. I'm trying not to make it awkward, but because the. We do have a QR code. So if you want to follow along with us, if. You have your cell. Phone, you can scan it. For the members in the audience. Those of you who are on TV. It will. Be broadcast. But we can flip. It around for a second. So if you want to scan, if you. Haven't already scanned it, you can do that so you can follow along. I apologize, it's a little more awkward and clunky to do that. This is for the school board, so it's important that. You can see it. We just want them to get the QR code so the students they can get access to the documents picture.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[R17046-116] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: want to again balance the classroom numbers to make sure they're more equitable and then eventually reduce special education costs because we're addressing a tier one issue, and that it doesn't revolve into more students at the tier two and tier three level. All right.
TEXT> So I said this is still lying. Right? Okay. We're consolidating our grade levels  across the district,  making sure that they're great aligned. I'm going to go over that in more detail in a moment.  We want to use the data and the Nasdaq report. And we'll go into that in a few moments too. So the efficiency in the delivery of the instruction supports, we want to result into less needs  for long term additional supports or classes. So and make sure that we are yeah. So reducing educators in different places. But we're not changing the number of educators but reallocating them.  So and our service providers will be aligned to your buildings, hopefully lessening the cost across student services as well  and putting them into different sections of subsets or clusters or educators across the levels with all collaborative efficiently. So we were able to have what's called special learning communities. We'll get to that in a moment. And so there'll be a great clusters. And so with a different model you might have two, you'll have 3 to 5 or some other, you know, complement of those arrangements. And so teachers right now so there's one grade four classroom and then it Dessner there's a couple grade fours. And so in order for them to be able to have any time to collaborate, somebody has to leave their building things.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So this would allow students to staff excuse me, to be able to collaborate more efficiently in the same building. Special educators plan the small group instruction that was to

[R17046-123] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Angell: That's right.
TEXT> All right. So here's where we're looking at. So for the for school model it's a little bit of a change. And that's something I want folks to take a moment to listen to. We're looking at and where it says the title, it has Maple Avenue or Dessner. That's not decided which one would fit better in things. So there's a possibility of doing it. And I'm just putting it out there. We haven't discussed all the full preschool part of it, but I want to just plan. So depending on if it's short sighted of us not to include preschool.  So we want to make sure that they're covered. So we have preschool through second grade at either Maple Avenue or Disney.  And it has the breakdown of students. We preschool. It's very hard to predict right now. We don't know. All of our preschool students are not completely accounted for. So we don't have a number for that. The kindergarten one is a projected enrollment number for that because it's coming out of the necessary for. And those, again, are students that we don't fully know the number right now because there's some students that are just we don't have a preschool program to feed into.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So that's just the projected number. The rest of the numbers are current students sitting in our schools right now. So we have first grade. There's 89 first graders, 104

[R17046-124] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: is a projected enrollment number for that because it's coming out of the necessary for. And those, again, are students that we don't fully know the number right now because there's some students that are just we don't have a preschool program to feed into.
TEXT> So that's just the projected number. The rest of the numbers are current students sitting in our schools right now. So we have first grade. There's 89 first graders, 104 second graders. And that school would have a total of about 314 students, excluding preschool. And assuming that the Nasdaq number is fairly accurate at 121. So we still need to work on the pride and division programs and making sure so many families we have some students in those programs where that would sit, but we were not. We're obviously including that. We're just trying to make sure classroom wise that would be included. So,  the second one is an option of the third, the fifth grade. So we have a pre-K to two school and then a 3 to 5 school. And again, which school? It depends. We're going to discuss what the Maple Avenue or one of those schools would be sitting with that cluster. So there's three, excuse me, 103rd graders, 116 fourth graders, 96 fifth graders. So about 312 students, give or take again minus that preschool number. So they're fairly equitable in numbers. And again, the divisions program would fit wherever we determine classrooms would sit. The middle school and high school in this model pretty much status quo in terms of location and student makeup.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So the next year, it's projected will have 123 six graders, 108 seventh graders, 109 eighth graders, for a total of 340 students. Fairly similar to what it is right

[R17046-125] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: take again minus that preschool number. So they're fairly equitable in numbers. And again, the divisions program would fit wherever we determine classrooms would sit. The middle school and high school in this model pretty much status quo in terms of location and student makeup.
TEXT> So the next year, it's projected will have 123 six graders, 108 seventh graders, 109 eighth graders, for a total of 340 students. Fairly similar to what it is right now.  And again, that staffing change doesn't sit there. It's still sixth eighth grade as it exists right now. The high school would be the ninth to grade. There would be 113 ninth graders, 105 10th graders, 90 1/11 graders, 113 12th graders for about 422. And I believe, Doctor Harrington. It's fairly close to where it is now. I believe.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Right now, as of today, you're at in 428.

[R17046-127] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: Right now, as of today, you're at in 428.
TEXT> Yeah. So or minus few students. So again for this for school model. The high school in the middle school are exactly as they are. We're hoping to also still reemployed some interventionists and looking at some options for them too. But right now we're really looking at concentrating on the pre-K to second grade, excuse me, fifth grades, which is part of our strategic plan. We really want to concentrate on those younger kids as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay.

[R17046-130] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Angell: When you review the budget numbers, Disney is going to be K-2 and Maple Ave is going to be three five.
TEXT> All right. So some of the strengths and some of the challenges we recognize. There's some probably questions that folks have. We tried to get ahead of some of those. There may be others that you have that we haven't thought about, but we understand this is primarily some of the things. So  it does allow for more interventionists at the two level. And that allows us to be able to, especially if, you know, the,  the research behind it by third grade. We want to get ahead of that. So students are not reading on grade level by third grade. They will continue to struggle for many, many years. We want to really put our best educators on that and deploy our interventionists at the pre-K to two level,  get ahead of it and really work on that. That's part of our strategic plan to continue with that model.  Again, more gradual transition. So in the future, we're not doing the same model all the time. And we apologize.  It's not ideal that everybody's transitioning, but we want to get to this point where we're reducing the number of transitions. The declining enrollment is there. That is something that we can't control, but we want to be able to get ahead of it.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We want to be able to create the interventionists at a better rate and make sure title one deployment, also making sure we have enough staff. We know, you know,

[R17046-131] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: apologize. It's not ideal that everybody's transitioning, but we want to get to this point where we're reducing the number of transitions. The declining enrollment is there. That is something that we can't control, but we want to be able to get ahead of it.
TEXT> We want to be able to create the interventionists at a better rate and make sure title one deployment, also making sure we have enough staff.  We know,  you know, understand grant money is not always available. So using our local budget to help support that as well. So eventually the goal is to reduce the number of special ed referrals and increase achievement of the tier two level. We have the classroom space as we consider it right now. We would like to continue to add more mentors for new teachers within a grade level. It's one building. So as I said before, the example is that grade four, if that new teacher had been in one of those twos,  it involves a lot more transitions and it's more difficult for the the mentor to get there. So this would allow the mentors to be together in one, you know,  so it's more balanced class sizes. Our goal would be eventually to get to 18 kindergarten to second grade students and try and keep it at that, and then 22 to 3 to five students. And so we want to keep those numbers fairly consistent. There may be a few, you know, couple numbers here and there for a little bit to, you know, to balance it out.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But that's our goal is to make sure it's the numbers there. So we would like to delay the District of people's, and this continues with CMS. And at Stevens

[R17046-137] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Sure.
TEXT> Okay. So considerations parking. We know parking at all the schools in our district, for the most part, is really challenging. So we want to work on that as well.  But considerations regarding some special education program. We want to make sure  that, that can be something that's looked at. So depending on we know that special education that's a nationwide shortage is not even just unique to Claremont. So that there's always something to look at. So that is always a challenge. Less savings for taxpayers. So this while might be a little bit more expensive.  But we're also proposing it. As for what we're looking for, the educational outcome for students and fewer transitions. It's not without transitions.  And so I know going into it, we're asking for a bigger sell for this particular model. And then the additional craftsman prep in the summertime. We know either way, there's still more work on the staff and students preparing and things for getting ready for a transition again. So we just recognize that these are challenges and looking at that. All right. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Oh yeah.

[R17046-139] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh yeah.
TEXT> All right. So one of the ideas about doing a for school model is eventually we'd be going to a two school model years down the road okay. And the reason behind that is because your student population just can't support it.  Now, one of the ways that you can do this is to rehab the middle school into an elementary school. And unfortunately, to come up with a cost budget, we would need to hire an architect to, to calculate that, I guess it is between 1 million and $4 million to accomplish that task. Now I'm going to talk about the three school model. And again,  the the tech is not affected in this. The tech is fully funded, like it has been in years past. So either Maple or Disney, that's going to be if it if this is chosen to be chosen from the board in the future, it would be pre-K through two and pre-K we would have it's  similar student counts as the four school model. Pre-K to have 121 students. First grade would have 89 students, second grade 104,  and with a total of 314. Now the it would rename the middle school to upper Elementary school because you can't have third grade in in middle school. And so it would be third through sixth  and third grade would be 100 students, fourth grade would be 116, fifth grade would be 96, sixth grade would be 123 with a total of 435.
NEXT> Matt Angell: And Stevens High School would would end up being seventh through 12th, 108 for seventh grade, 109 for eighth grade, 113 for ninth grade, 105 for 10th, 91 for 11,

[R17046-149] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Grade two.
TEXT> Really? Yeah. Grade two  concentration is support. Personnel intervention is by grade cluster. More savings in the budget resulting in lower tax increase. More intervention is available under the for school model. There would be six additional interventionists. Under the three school model there would be ten. This adds mentors for new teachers with with a grade level in one building. The challenge is, however, another transition for students, staff, family members at certain grade levels. And that's also similar for the four for school model. Additional classroom prep in the summer beginning and ending of the school years. You might have to explain that one a little bit more.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Yeah. So similar to the three school model. And it there's still transitions. So there's packing up. There's moving. That's still obviously a big challenge for folks to be able

[R17046-151] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Yeah. So similar to the three school model. And it there's still transitions. So there's packing up. There's moving. That's still obviously a big challenge for folks to be able to transition a classroom once again.
TEXT> Okay. You community created this year. And that's also a challenge for the for school model.  Student transitions occur during the third grade to, the Claremont Upper Elementary School and seventh grade to the high school  time needed to ensure spaces can fit program  programmatic needs for the high school, especially lunch. Let's see the junior high, junior senior grade level span, student numbers, a combined school which require programmatic changes. More families, student staff disruptions, moves in a short amount of time within 3 to 5 months.  There's also going to be parking issues and a loss of a neighborhood school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So all right. So why we're looking at this and you know specifically the the model A that's for school. So in ten years we understand the student population based

[R17046-152] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (sub-second onset fragment) | 2025-12-17
PREV> Matt Angell: junior senior grade level span, student numbers, a combined school which require programmatic changes. More families, student staff disruptions, moves in a short amount of time within 3 to 5 months. There's also going to be parking issues and a loss of a neighborhood school.
TEXT> So all right. So why we're looking at this and you know specifically  the the model A that's  for school. So in ten years we understand the student population based on the projection that we have will be fewer than 1100 students. And so the four school model allows for the natural decline, and allows us to ford an opportunity to rehab the middle school in the future and to be able to make sure that we're getting into, you know, to make it into an elementary school. So this elementary school could be part of the upper elementary school. We talked about the QS under the three school model or an elementary school, eventually leading to a two school model. It would allow us to be able to write some of the positions in terms of clusters, but you know, the grade levels, but not completely shift it as much as it would in the three school model right now. The number of students will decline, though, through the as we rehabilitate the the school. Between the fiscal years, we're projecting between 2029 2030 and 2032 and 2033. It sounds very far off, but it's actually not that far as you would think. So we're trying to plan ahead for that. But with the three school model, the rehabbing the middle school become more challenging if it's already being occupied.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So with the four school model, we would be able to eventually get to rehab the middle school, becoming an elementary school. And then we'll talk a little bit about

[R17046-153] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: 2032 and 2033. It sounds very far off, but it's actually not that far as you would think. So we're trying to plan ahead for that. But with the three school model, the rehabbing the middle school become more challenging if it's already being occupied.
TEXT> So with the four school model, we would be able to eventually get to rehab the middle school,  becoming an elementary school. And then we'll talk a little bit about that. So it does minimize the impact to the middle and high school students right now, where the buildings have been designated as schools in need of support by the Doe. And we'll look at the building of the classroom structures and things in a moment.
NEXT> Matt Angell: That all right for both models? Teacher student ratios. Both both models assume anticipated teacher ratios for elementary schools to be around 18 students per teacher. However, there will be

[R17046-156] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Intersection. Success.
TEXT> Transportation. And so we are discussing having one of our parent Guardian drop offs. So you would have one place to drop off and pick up elementary students. We are discussing these staggered times. We understand it's very difficult to be in two places at one time, so we would look at the start and stop times for schools as well. And so they will have a solution for transportation in either model. So that wouldn't matter. We figure out a way to make sure that the students are getting to school in each model. The playgrounds, we understand we might have to move some playground to some close locations to the Claremont Upper Elementary School. And eventually, if that was like the old middle school. And so that we have to make sure that there's playground equipment at the middle school. If it became an elementary schools, we understand that that's happening.  And then that's only in model B, the three school.
NEXT> Matt Angell: All right. So currently the the total budget that's been approved for this fiscal year is $43,179,564. That includes all the contributions to all the reserves, if there were any.

[R17046-159] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: or something like that, that would meet the needs. And so we would sort of we're, we're playing with or excuse me, not playing with experience, looking into the options of having this consortium started and so that we can each meet each other's needs.
TEXT> And so right now we're sending students out of district at a very high cost, some to Massachusetts, some to Vermont. And so to be able to create some more, you know, districts, programs that requires  fewer dollars and they're not out of district programs. And so this would allow us to look at more of the special ed collaborative and utilizing a lot more of the bluff school. And so we would retain it in our school arsenal for right now, with the eventual part of it possibly being rented out. And so they would operate as a special ed collaborative. The collaborative model can assist students,  I mean, staff members and make sure that we manage our special education costs. And then we would be able to get some revenue from the rent or lease of that program as well. So it would be able to assume that we have right now the four schools that we exist, not in the well, it's five schools with the bluff part, but not, the configuration model.  And then that also still we're still discussing that Maple Avenue, the what was going to be the tech and at the text excuse me the academy program still looking at that as potentially being sold off. And that's something to be coming up to. So but looking at options for the bluff school usage in the future and so being able to bring in some income associated with that use of that building.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Right. Next steps. If you have any questions, please email me that email addresses right here. And I need emails by December 30th. And what I'm going to do is

[R17046-215] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Right. Okay. I just wanted to make sure that it happened. Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> My questions are primarily are not primarily, but I have a number of questions. I'll send most of them to you again. One of my big concerns is that we have nothing built in to these models to sustain our infrastructure  or  to react to a catastrophic infrastructure or mechanical  event in any one of the schools. So we have no capital, for all intents and purposes. Our reserve funds are. Depleted or depleted. And so what would the strategy be if in any of these models, but in particular, the more schools you have open, the more chance you have of issues. If we had a leaky roof, a major leaky roof that made it inhabitable  for students. I  we looked back. I looked kind of remember that we had spent almost $300,000 on roofs repairs for Stevens High School alone, and that was recently renovated.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Also the, how each model impacts the adult to student ratio. And what the effects of an increased adult a student ratio if there is one how that would impact

[R17046-216] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: issues. If we had a leaky roof, a major leaky roof that made it inhabitable for students. I we looked back. I looked kind of remember that we had spent almost $300,000 on roofs repairs for Stevens High School alone, and that was recently renovated.
TEXT> Also the, how each model  impacts the adult to student ratio. And what the effects of an increased adult a student ratio if there is one how that would impact behavior management, intervention access, curriculum,  curriculum alignment and safety. So those are my, Oh, and another thing, the tech, when we were thinking when I was hearing about the renovation of the CMS, that the goal of the for school model is to essentially provide space within the district  to allow us to absorb kids into those into three schools at one point for one year,  to then reconvene them all into the two school model, completely reconfigure it down the road, down the road. And so just to remember the number of transitions for students that are in the system now, when we're talking about transitions like that's a quadruple multiplier. If we go to four and then we squish everybody back to three and then we go to two. So when we're talking about transitions and disruption, it's just something  to think about. And the value that the community has placed on expansion of the technical center. And it's been a value that the board has tried to reflect. I think within the last, last year, we had a discussion about renovating the tech. We have a window of opportunity to get state funding to do that. We did have an architect look at the tech facility.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We had a very nice plan.

[R17046-229] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-12-17
PREV> Michelle Springer: safety and learning of all students and staff. I also want to clarify the purpose of special education. Special education is intended to be a supportive step designed to help students across grade level learning and return to general education classroom as much as possible.
TEXT> While some students may always require more intensive support, they still have the right to belong to their school community. Under the Ida and specifically 34 CFR 300.11 for students with disabilities must be educated in the least restrictive environment, meaning they are educated when non-disabled peers to the maximum extent appropriate. New Hampshire law reflects this expectation. RSA 186, C and ED11 hundred rules require districts to provide special education services in a manner that supports inclusion, access to peers, and individualized decision making, not placement based on convenience, staffing shortages, or behavior alone. Even when a student requires a self-contained classroom that does not remove their right to participate in lunch, attend specials, take part in school wide activities, or be a visible and valued member of their school community. I am deeply concerned about any movement toward relocating a self-contained or behavior alternative program into a separate school for any age. This raises serious legal and ethical concerns, including increased risk of inclusionary practices, new Hampshire seclusion and restraint regulations. Ed 119 are clear. Seclusion may only be used in emergencies involving immediate physical danger.  We know that if the district believes an alternative or therapeutic program is necessary, it must be clearly identified and fully staffed. A legitimate alternative program requires a full time administrator, a school nurse, certified special educators, general education teachers A, B, C, A, and writes in-person mental health counselors, oversight, data collection, and accountability.
NEXT> Michelle Springer: Anything less is not in an alternative program. It is a placement that risks violating student rates. Finally, there is a significant community and fiscal concern when required. Related services

[R17046-232] Molly DeLuca | Public commenter, Ward 1; parent and Superintendent Advisory Committee | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. Molly DeLuca, Ward one. I'm a parent of two students, and I'm also on the Super Attendance Advisory Committee. So I apologize. I have to raise some things because we had a little bit more data tonight, so, might be a little choppy. So in general, I just want to say I have serious concerns with the restructuring options being discussed, because once again, I feel like we're rushing to make this happen before fully understanding the impact. I was part of the restructuring committee five years ago, and it doesn't look very much different, except that we might have a little bit more data. So I just want to say that and I have serious concerns about moving the seventh and eighth grade to the high school. I don't know how you can think that's realistically a good idea with the current setup. Yes, other districts have done it, but in a vastly different setup where there's different wings. You know, I'm also part of the parent committee at CMS. We're dealing with significant issues, behavior issues, vaping, tobacco use, sexual assault. And I just don't understand why you think it's a good idea to put younger students with older students. You're talking a potential 12 year old with an 18 year old.
NEXT> Molly DeLuca: That is just too much. I just I don't know what your safeguards are. I don't know what that plan looks like. We need more planning. The other thing is,

[R17046-235] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1; parent, taxpayer and science teacher at Stev | 2025-12-17
PREV> Molly DeLuca: to 2 in 10 years? Insane. Also, it's just data. I work in marketing. It's just data. You have no idea what could happen in ten years. Housing is a major issue. Massachusetts people are coming up and just want to put that out there.
TEXT> Okay. I'm going to talk really fast. I'm Leslie Peabody Award one. I didn't change my speech too much, so sorry if I'm saying stuff you guys already answered. Okay. I'm here as a parent, a taxpayer and science teacher at Stevens, and I have a profound concern regarding the current trajectory of our district's restructuring. So I understand the financial pressures following the recent 5 million deficit mismanagement. The transition from five schools toward a consolidated two school model appears rushed and lacks the comprehensive transparency required for such a permanent change. I'm formally requesting you guys slow the process down. I love that you're already talking about it. Thank you. I'm going to detail some areas for you. So staff retention and stability. Consider your recent mid-year closure of bluff, the reassignment of teachers, secretaries and other support staff, the last minute riffs and continual staff resignations. Whether you like it or not, there's a significant issue regarding employment uncertainty, distrust and cynicism. So that in itself should be a major concern to you. I've come from organizations before. It's it's bad. So the board needs a clear multiyear plan for students and staff placement and, frankly, morale that prevents further resignations and protects our special education services infrastructure.
NEXT> Leslie Peabody: Consolidating more students into fewer buildings significantly impacts local traffic and parking, blah, blah. We talked about that. We require an engineering and logistics report on how these sites will

[R17046-244] Abby | Public commenter, Ward 3; parent of a special education student (name  | 2025-12-17
PREV> Abby: not you specifically, but as a whole, this district is so lucky. It doesn't have more lawsuits. My child from third grade and I just met with Mr. Harrington. She is 15. She is 10th grader at the high school and she is in everything.
TEXT> I wrote a letter  complaining at Maple Ave when she was in fifth grade. Her whole class was excluded from the end of year graduation projects. The whole special education class was excluded  and she is not been included any more than that moment now. So you already do not include the special education students. And she has down syndrome, so she's OG special education not meeting forms test this she is it's on her face. She is special education and she is not included in anything at any time since the third grade. I don't know how to say that much more clear. It is painful. It is. There's not education on it. Your students aren't educated on how to include special. They are so educated on how to deal with trans and and different genders and all this. But special education, you don't teach them. This is a down syndrome child. She has no choice. She didn't choose this. She is what she is and you will walk away from her. She is ignored on the daily. We have walked with her where all these girls were waving. She was a cheerleader. All these girls are waving and she's waving back. And they walked right by her. They were not waving to her. There is no inclusion. So to dare to say  that you have a plan that excludes them even more is disgusting.  Lawsuit. Lawsuit. Lawsuit.
NEXT> Sam Torres: Hi, I'm Sam Torres, Ward one. I have some random notes that I just want to include. One thing. I think it was model B. I just want to note

[R17046-249] Michelle Bian | Public commenter, Ward 2 (sub-second onset clipped from the next segme | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Hello. My name is Michelle Bian and I am in Ward two.  I just want to say thank you for addressing pre-K. I'm looking to see when it's actually going to be presented to the public, so. And to the board. So actually here the data on the current need that we have, I think it's great that we're looking at adding a classroom, but I think we need to look at where's the data on what we actually need, not just what fits into our budget. I think it's also important to remember that there are services that are required, but also it's the placement where the services are provided. And so that is decided by the team at a child's IEP meeting. And if it's a tournament that the preschool placement is the best for them to receive their services. And they should be not just getting services, but they should be in a preschool classroom. So I understand  from the presentation that there's no intentional reduction in staff. If we are to move to either of these models and looking to see where's the data currently on the number of staff who have resigned since we have made this model of moving closing bluff, and how many new hires have we had into the district since the bluff closure?
NEXT> Michelle Bian: Not moving within, but outside the district? How many are we hiring that are new? So I'm thinking that maybe we need to look at that data to determine whether

[R17046-284] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1; special education teacher | 2025-12-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Then go to extend this time, we can.
TEXT> Consider putting all the special needs kids at one. School.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: If we can. We're going. To will extend the time to. Do that. So it doesn't mean you can't talk.

[R17046-297] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1; special education teacher | 2025-12-17
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Wow.
TEXT> Empower every student. And that's not doing that. That is segregating. That is something we did in the 1950s to kids to to children with disabilities. We warehouse them. That's what that leads to. So please don't do that. Thank you.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: Hi. Amanda Barton, Ward two, parent and teacher. So a very dedicated person for education here. I just want to say ditto to a lot of things that have been

[R17046-299] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent and teacher | 2025-12-17
PREV> Amanda Barton: are feeling. They also know how our intervention is going. And from what I'm hearing, I mean, we had the shout out to Mrs. Miss Herzog. She is amazing. And she says things are going well and she's working hard and those kids are improving.
TEXT> So if we could get some data to make sure that it's okay to leave it K through five, because intervention is happening and kids are starting to get into the swing of things, and maybe we can push things off so that kids can have maximum achievement. Okay. So thank you so much for considering that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R17046-310] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (second diarized cluster of the chair's voice) | 2025-12-17
PREV> Camron Lownie: included, comparing model A and model B, while providing only qualitative contrast with the status quo, is insufficient. I think it's reasonable, as a taxpayer and employee, to expect a clearer rationale for why such an accelerated time frame is necessary for any consolidation plan.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there any more anyone else that would like to come and speak? I've had no more kids. Okay. Oh, I just I.
NEXT> Abby: I'm so angry right now. Honestly, I'm. Whoever put that segregating the special education. We can.

[R17046-334] Alicia Simoneau | Public commenter; first-grade teacher at Maple Avenue School, formerly | 2025-12-17
PREV> Alicia Simoneau: an adult. I'm an old lady. I'm used to it. My little babies still are not. Some of them are. I don't bring it up. I don't discuss it with them. Somebody wanted to give me a bluff sign the other day, I refused it.
TEXT> I will not put it up at my new school because I respect the decision that was made. I am working my tail off. I have worked so hard with my little kiddos because I've taken it on as a positive instead of being negative every day. And then I watch your finance committee meetings, and I almost don't want to come to work the next day. But the only thing that brings me in is my kids. My students. They will have to move my little first grade babies if you change them to Disney, which is also a wonderful school, they will have to move three times. We gotta  we can. We slow down and take some time to plan and do it right. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Do I have any more sit in this? Comments.

[R17046-393] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.
TEXT> So one of one of the the objectives was setting the tuition rate in the past has been enough to make it worthwhile to do it, but  yeah, but low enough that it's attractive to other schools to send their kids here. Yes. So where are we as far as those two?
NEXT> Matt Angell: For the for the high school, it is enough to, fund programs, but it's slightly more expensive, I think, in comparison to some of the other schools. Except, however, Fall

[R17046-398] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Does anybody like to make a motion? And then we can further discuss,
TEXT> I'll make a motion to accept these two proposals for 15,000 for elementary and 155 for middle school students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We have a second. Second. Mr. Howard seconds. Is there any discussion or we open the floor to discussion? Miss Crawford.

[R17046-433] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (sentence continuation) | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So Doctor Harrington approached me. Do you would like to present? Sure.
TEXT> I would very. Much love. I'm here. Honestly. To try and balance an equation, and. Make sure that Stevens High School. Is. Able to operate as a,  as you know, Miss  Jarvis  has  left being the assistant, one of the assistant principals at the high school  and is throwing is going to be helping out with the the student service director. She's going to do a great job. She's going to be sorely missed. She was absolutely integral to the function of that high school, especially being down so many positions. Of the things that she did as the, assistant principal behavior is one of the core functions, another function  that she did, which was really just because she's wonderful, and she wanted to know how to do everything is she was the backup to the, Attendance secretary. I will not, pull any punches. Our attendance and how it is being done is not great.  Miss Holly Brissette, Jen Ferland are doing the best that they can. It is a lot, especially with everything they're doing.  And now that,  the bulk of the behavior is landing on Miss Deb Beaupre, I'm trying to, fill in as much as I can.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: But there's things that need to be done that pull me away from that. So what I'm doing with the balancing of the equation is I am looking at all

[R17046-463] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-12-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And the second policy that's on the agenda is policy. I see academic honors, class ranking, valedictorian. Salutatorian. I turn it over to Mr. Madden.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. So when I first came  as a parent to the school, I was struck that it didn't have the feel of the school. And I brought that message to the board and I explained it to them. And an example I gave them was there's no honor roll. And I think they looked at me like I had two heads. And then we dug into it a little bit and we did not have an honor roll. So I think it's a matter of changing the culture. This is one way we're going to do it. I think we cheated all those good students that were in our school in the past. They didn't get to put that extra line on their application to college, saying hi on a roll, honor roll. So I kept pushing for this. I didn't know why I had to push for it,  and I Heather said, you got to do it by making a policy. All right. Finally got a policy. Frank and I worked on it. We put something together. Then it was expanded to include all the other class rankings and  valedictorian salutary. And  and then Arlene wanted to be very careful that we didn't impose something that couldn't be lived with.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So I had me work with Doctor Harrington. We got together. We came to complete agreement a couple weeks later. He said, Billy can't do it this way. So what

[R17046-548] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Technical advisory.
TEXT> Okay, so just hot off the press from the Department of Education just to make sure everybody's aware. I did email it out, I believe, yesterday. But it does warrant some more discussion and to look into it. So I know, Miss Hawkins, you're so in good policy. So you may want to help us unpack this one. So this technical advisory was developed and says to provide guidance to schools and the requirement of written and parental consent prior to audio and video recordings of students. So it is a five page document. And we are literally trying to unpack this at our level. But it does mention about making sure that the school boards are where it does have impact on policies. The biggest one that I've seen that we need to get ahead of varied away,  is regarding English language proficiency testing. So we have what's called access testing. And we do that coming up in January. So right after the break, the students who are English language learners will take this test. It does involve a speaking component. The speaking record requires you to be recorded. And then we hold on to that for the assessment and things. So it would to comply with this, school districts must obtain written permission from parents before consenting to this this assessment.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Obviously it would need to be in the native language. We need to work on that. And so we want to make sure we get ahead of this. So seeking

[R17046-549] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: involve a speaking component. The speaking record requires you to be recorded. And then we hold on to that for the assessment and things. So it would to comply with this, school districts must obtain written permission from parents before consenting to this this assessment.
TEXT> Obviously it would need to be in the native language. We need to work on that. And so we want to make sure we get ahead of this. So seeking approval to work on that, particularly more expedited than the others because this one is right after the break. The other things were heading up right now is there was a concert that was about to be broadcasted Friday. So we need to make sure if you all can take a look in the next day or so to see, we want to make sure reading it, we literally have not had a moment to sit down and just really make sure we're in compliance. It does mention a lot about IEPs, but there are other some things there area. So there is a difference of opinion about sporting events right now. So some districts are saying that it's fine to record and report out sporting events. Others are saying no, we need more. We might need more permissions. And so typically when a student enters school, there's a, you know, photo release. We want to review ours just to make sure it covers all media, all forms of things, just to cover our bases. Now that this has come.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Out, will you do that tomorrow?

[R17046-551] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-12-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Out, will you do that tomorrow?
TEXT> We were planning on doing it tomorrow, but I would ask that maybe if everybody else can take a look at it. I did ask Mr. Howard. Maybe. I mean, Mr. Howard, if you could take a look at it too, just from the video lens of it. If there's anything else that we're missing. It does pertain to IEPs. And it talks a little bit about, you know, in your teacher evaluation, sometimes student teachers  or teachers under mentoring program or things like that would record themselves. Usually it's in the back and they don't see students and things. And it was talking about you obviously have to get for rental parental permission for that. But there's many nuances in here. And so it just talks about board action too. So I want to make sure you're aware of it. I did email it out, but I can't let this just sit in in. So we want to make sure we take a look at this. And if there's any other feedback that you'd like to provide to us, please do. And obviously time is of the essence.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Drummond Woodson question like can we hand this to.

[R17046-560] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-12-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any other business. Yes, sir.
TEXT> I do have a couple of quick ones. Scott Maple going to be driving the homeless kids.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So right now that does not seem to be able to be done. And we are looking at that because we are actually the superintendent groups that I talked about

[R17092-1] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: a brief description of what those donations are. And so someone from the board can, when the time comes, make a motion to accept. Okay. So I just want to do a quick overview and thank you, everybody. We have a generous offer that we're.
TEXT> Hoping to engage into a grant application, which is the purpose of this  because we had to help some stipends. And then we had lost a band member, teacher or a teacher at the middle school. The students at the middle school have not had band or chorus or  music music instruction since October 31st.  And so we've been looking we have a substitute in that position and we've been looking. And so we worked with W.C.,  CMA, and then Richmond and several other people have been able to help fill  to get some approval. So George Ward,  Lori Ward, Michelle Beat and Rob Beaton has been instrumental in trying to find alternative sources.  And so we looked at variety of places. Kiwanis and other places have given some donations to WCC with that. But instead,  in addition to that, the mayhem for Charitable Foundation has been guaranteed  an opportunity for us to apply for a grant.  So I'm looking for a motion that  authorize  the six  administration statement staff to apply for this grant. And let me just get the wording in for a minute. Second, I apologize.  To if we were apply for this grant and if granted, to accept the needed funds that would provide for band and chorus instruction to CMS students to cover the cost of the instruction, this amount is not to exceed the $49,775 that was outlined.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So all the board members had the breakdown of what it costs for each section of the band and the chorus. And this is totally no cost to anybody in

[R17092-10] Noah Bosch | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So we have a plan. So we'll have active Ben the music and chorus and everything next year as well.
TEXT> Okay.  Hi everyone. I'm Noah Bosch and I live in Ward three and I'm a senior at us. I just wanted to come up here and talk about  the benefits of music programs in schools. I personally have been involved in a music program at school in some form since I was in sixth grade, and I honestly could not imagine a life without that. So being involved in these programs, I have learned not only how to play music, but also what it's like being involved in a community bigger than myself. And, there are also countless impacts of music on, like students. And a primary example of this is my younger brother, who is a current student at CMS. He's in eighth grade, and this band and music are a positive outlet for him to be able to express his emotions and connect with his peers in a way that he doesn't really get elsewhere. This is also exemplified in the show's music program, which will not be the same if CMS is unable to continue a music program. It's really hard to create a community if you're building it from the ground up. So, yeah, I'm just asking everyone to consider that. And I also just had a question and that is does this cover so the operating costs of a music department are usually more than just like the salary of like paying a music teacher.
NEXT> Noah Bosch: So obviously this is a very large and generous donation. But I'm just wondering, like, is this just the salary of hiring somebody to teach music, or does it include

[R17092-12] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Noah Bosch: So obviously this is a very large and generous donation. But I'm just wondering, like, is this just the salary of hiring somebody to teach music, or does it include other things like instrument repairs and things like that?
TEXT> That's a good question. It does have instrument repairs. It has a variety of  other specifics, and it breaks down into,  you know, whether there's performance  support for students, for concerts. It has,  and I apologize, we have we had a situation here before. There was a gas leak smell. So we were running out trying to fix that for a minute, so I apologize. So it has jazz band, chorus, choir equipment,  program management of piano companies for, you know, if you have a concert, things like that. So it has right of  supplies. So all of those are factored into it outside of the  hopefully we're going to talk about our advocation for a teacher that will be doing the instruction during the day. And so this will be the supplemental part of it that typically would be outside of the  school day structure or after school, and things for banded chorus and things. So we do have that covered in there. Okay.
NEXT> Noah Bosch: Perfect. The last thing I want to say is that oftentimes the art our arts are chronically underfunded, as important as that is, and they are definitely one of the

[R17092-16] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Sherry Williams: to be clear that we should absolutely say yes to anything related to that. And then just the question would be, you have used both grant and donation in the same topic. And so I'm just unclear how a grant would be considered a donation.
TEXT> But thank you. So sure, I can clarify that a little. Hopefully too. So this would be a great reply, for we had had some donations and then gone specifically to WCC,  and that's sort of sitting as a  reserve for other things that are happening. Since that time. We would apply some fundraising. So it's not lost money, it's it's sitting to be waiting to be used because they know they stepped up the charitable foundation saying, we suspect you're going to need more. So we're going to hold that in reserve. We're going to give you everything you asked for, potentially, hopefully, and more.  And then we can hold on to the other donations that we have.  And so we have some other supports that are coming up. So we have the southwest Band competition. So there's other things that we have planned that necessarily aren't covered on this. And so we want to be able to make sure we can do those two.  And so we have the opportunity to apply for this grant, which I won't say it's guaranteed, but it's a very high percentage likely that we will get it. So we just want to be able to say if they get it, we can get going. And so we can get these students the music construction that they need. So any other questions.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Or is there anyone else that would like to speak from the community?

[R17092-64] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Would you like to contact us? Mr. Angel would like to speak briefly. Can you. Can you speak to that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, sure. Okay.
TEXT> Well, stipends are issued  according to the CBA or the collective bargaining agreement. Okay. And there are different situations where a stipend may spring up.  For example, if, if,  if a teacher  works, you know, their normal schedule and they may be asked to do, like, an additional duty that's beyond their their normal work program. We will, we will. And if they agree. We'll issue them a stipend for that particular thing. An example in that case would be, say, tutoring a student. Okay.  Another example would be  if right now the teacher contract is, I think for 186 days. And  if we want them to come back in and do, say,  additional work for  building curriculum,  to evaluate curriculum,  to do specialized training, we may have to issue a stipend for them because that would be work that would be performed outside of their contract. Okay. So it's usually the way we're going to do it is, is to make it so that there's work.  We're trying to follow their, their agreement when issuing stipends. Now, I think  there's been some right to know requests that have been out there. And what you'll find in those stipends that were issued, some of the, especially the Covid money, there were  there were some funds that were given out  to teachers  as a bonus during the Covid funds. So you'll see those as stipends. Okay.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But there are some that we agree. We're. Not contractually obligated. We've talked to the unions about.

[R17092-68] Sherry Williams | Citizen commenter, Chestnut Street (self-identified) | 2026-01-07
PREV> Sherry Williams: but I wanted the opportunity to come up to the school board and ask you not to discount the benefit that if a student is is facing an Re with a need like summer school or being a credit recovery, it doesn't indicate uninvolved parents.
TEXT> It doesn't indicate students who aren't doing their best.  It is a huge benefit to a lot of students and has been a huge benefit to our family and my students who have graduated from Stevens High School, proudly continuing the tradition that that came with my graduation from Stevens High School. The credit recovery program has been a part of that. And so I just want to encourage you not to close your mind to the benefit, and please don't consider  the need for that as an indicator of uninvolved parents. Thank you.
NEXT> Derek Alexander: Hi, Derek Alexander, Ward two. I just wanted to follow up and find out what's happening with the forensic audit. Are they declined? Who declined? The two. The two from

[R17092-107] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any other questions for Miss Kennedy from the board.
TEXT> And also remain with Billy Specialist. Sorry I'm sorry. And I apologize to it's even harder. So we'll also be working on anybody else that's worked with a billing specialist and making sure that they understand that time and effort logs,  and how to make sure that those are filled out so that we can bill appropriately for student reimbursements and things. So.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Miss Hopkins, I have a question from the last meeting. Sure. It was mentioned that there were, I think it was 15 prekindergarten students who were not receiving services identified

[R17092-108] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair (segment opens with the | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: also be working on anybody else that's worked with a billing specialist and making sure that they understand that time and effort logs, and how to make sure that those are filled out so that we can bill appropriately for student reimbursements and things. So.
TEXT> Miss Hopkins, I have a question from the last meeting. Sure. It was mentioned that there were, I think it was 15 prekindergarten students who were not receiving services identified pre-K students at the next meeting. If that could be answered or explained, clarified.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We can definitely get an update.

[R17092-116] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: One. I don't need to see that.
TEXT> Okay. I'm going to start. Good evening. Can anybody hear me back there? Yeah. Okay. All right. So we have a few things to present to look at the budgets. We have some options. Like I said, it's a little bit more atypical this year. I'd say nothing is really typical right now, but we want to make sure we explore options and make sure we keep your objective. So I hope everybody can agree that our objective is to make sure that we are improving achievement at all levels. The initial goal here is especially the elementary level, which will include achievement growth through all of the grades over time.  We want to eventually reduce the need for support services  in all grades, because we have a higher than state average  number of students who are receiving support services and improve the graduation rate. And so we want to really strengthen our tier one instruction. And that's just what every student gets in our schools, because we want to make sure that that's the strongest possible. And that's, you know, across every board. It's not saying it's nobody's not doing their job. It's saying that we want to make sure we are looking at the curricula.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We're looking at everything to make sure that the students are getting what they they can get. We also want to increase the number of interventionists. And so right now

[R17092-117] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: gets in our schools, because we want to make sure that that's the strongest possible. And that's, you know, across every board. It's not saying it's nobody's not doing their job. It's saying that we want to make sure we are looking at the curricula.
TEXT> We're looking at everything to make sure that the students are getting what they they can get. We also want to increase the number of interventionists. And so right now we use title one grant funds.  And we know sometimes that that's not always guarantee. So we want to be able to use local funds and talk about that. What does it look like. And so we have more opportunities for folks. So there's a tiered instruction model. And so there's tier one like I said that's everybody gets that. Tier two is typically you know 5 to 15%. And it's you know sometimes when we title one sometimes specific for a variety of things, it could be social emotional health, it could be mental health, it could be for, you know, academic support. And so we want to make sure we get the number of supports and the right supports and all the students and where they need to be. And then, then tier three. And oftentimes the special ed is but it's particularly specialized instruction. Typically 1 to 5% for sums that need some a bigger support than what they're already getting in the classroom.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so we want to make sure that we improve the intervention time across all of the schools. We want to make sure we have higher academic achievement and engagement

[R17092-118] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: all the students and where they need to be. And then, then tier three. And oftentimes the special ed is but it's particularly specialized instruction. Typically 1 to 5% for sums that need some a bigger support than what they're already getting in the classroom.
TEXT> And so we want to make sure that we improve the intervention time across all of the schools. We want to make sure we have higher academic achievement and engagement from all the students.  And we want to look at the alignment of the grades. And that's something that's, it's it does involve some moves. We want to talk about that a little bit, but it also makes sure that professional development opportunities are there. Students have the ability to be with their peers.  And you know, because we are going into the declining enrollment. So I want to switch slides for a moment. Just a quick review  for that. That's our enrollment form. Slide. And it shows over the next several years what does it look like? And unfortunately and it's not guaranteed. But our world right now is declining. And, so we are currently at 1500 students. 1509, I believe, today. And then it potentially, if things progress the way that they might be or looking at projected is we may be down to 1000 students, you know, within several years here. So we want to try and be forward thinking, but also at the same time. Look at options for, you know, not completely changed everything for our accessibility for students. And so there's been discussions about different models. I'm going to turn it over to Matt to talk about the budget proposals.
NEXT> Matt Angell: All right. So the budget proposals if you start with the far left hand column, that's the current year operating budget all in. And it's at $43,179,564. That includes all

[R17092-125] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the lower elementary, 4 to 6 and the upper elementary and 7 to 12 at Stevens. And so the budget for the three school model line configuration was built with being a key to two, a 3 to 6 and then a 7 to 12.
TEXT> And that was also the request that we had, you know, back in the middle of October. So, so there's been discussions about where grades three and seven go in the final version, that's still, you know, potentially open for discussion. But the number of students currently they're at is 108 in each grade level. So numerically it does not make a difference. There same number of students. It's a matter of, you know, is it preferable to have students pre-K to two or pre-K to three, and the upper elementary school would be 3 to 6, or it could be 4 to 7.  And then the, you know, the junior senior high school would be the 7 to 12. So, those are some of the big things that are coming up. We continue on. So what number of interventionists per student or grade are needed to make an impact? Excuse me? An academic impact. And so Matt and answer the three school nine model has ten interventionists above what we already have for title one. The for school, a line model. Again, that would be the one schools K to two.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: When the school is 3 to 5, that would be have six interventionists above what we get for title one right now the four school current configuration that we have

[R17092-180] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: Yeah.
TEXT> Right. But also you can configure, you know, so if the schools were aligned and grades were in one room, you might change. Some might change grades.  Right. And so we might have a fourth fifth grade. There's a number of teachers we might need in one grade over another. But they wouldn't lose, you know, positions and things. And so you might because we're trying to the number of students in with each classroom we might lose, you know, like say one teacher at one grade would go to another grade that needs another teacher to those numbers.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Another another comment that I think checked my memory. I think that during our, budget meetings, the cost for healthcare went up 11.8%.

[R17092-197] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: Yes.
TEXT> The questions. I just want to verify  that or just compare and contrast between some of the models to make sure  that we're all kind of operating with the same information when we're having our further discussions. So my understanding is, is that if we go to the aligned, models, either the three school or the four school as it impacts elementary school. And we and I think Candy touched on this about the class sizes and my understanding. And correct me if I'm wrong, is that some of the disparity in the class sizes per grade  were as extreme as ten students in one class, and 24 in another class, in another school on some years.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Similar. Yeah, I mean, there's some that were more, you know, 10 to 18 or, you know, different numbers. There is a disparity, but it's not as.

[R17092-199] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Similar. Yeah, I mean, there's some that were more, you know, 10 to 18 or, you know, different numbers. There is a disparity, but it's not as.
TEXT> Not 3 to 4 students. It was meaning.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: There's a few that there were no significant, you know, eight students fewer in one room or something.

[R17092-201] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: There's a few that there were no significant, you know, eight students fewer in one room or something.
TEXT> Got it.  And with the aligned models in K through two, what I had kind of figured out was it was going to be roughly 17 students per class  and K through two.  And it's my understanding that the minimum standards, which we all agree  are not acceptable, minimum standards are minimum worst. The minimum standard is 25, with a target indicated by the state of 20 for class size. And third, fourth and fifth. The estimates that I have is that the class sizes would be roughly 19 and 20.  Per class.  And the target of those classes are 2025. So we're well below their even the floor.  And in fifth grade, 19 students, sixth grade 20 students per classroom.  And I know that there was some concern about whether we had a surge in, enrollment. And if I'm wrong, stop me. But I'm looking at we would need to have like in some of these classes, anywhere between 20 and a 30% increase in one year for us to even meet the target of, say, 20, in kindergarten in every class.  So I just want people to have their fears allayed, that even if we had a large influx of students, that we would not get anywhere close to the abysmal minimum standards level.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: May I clarify something about the minimum standards through the state 306? Yes. May I do that at this point? Is that okay? Yeah, we were looking at that today

[R17092-207] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: to the building leaders on how the extra staff that were in the buildings were being used. And to your point, the first line of defense or the first use would not to be as a substitute, but to be used for academic purposes. Absolutely.
TEXT> Yeah. And so ideally, you know, the intervention is a really, you know, targeting ideally when you set it up and I've seen it most successful is when we have data meetings. Administrators, special educators, everybody is involved in it. And, you know, meeting in my last district, we did it on Fridays. Doesn't really matter which day of the week it is, things like that. That we we certainly talked to the unions about negotiating when it is and how it looks and things. But everybody sits down, says, here's our data. You know what it is. And, you know, you're making a 5 to 6 week plan every 5 to 6 weeks you're meeting. Are the students making progress? Yes. Are they going into this group or that group and moving forward? And they're very fluid groups.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And this is this is kind of an intuitive thing for what what I'm looking for is are they going to be effective if we keep them in the budget

[R17092-249] Alicia Simoneau | Maple Avenue School teacher, formerly Bluff School; citizen commenter  | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to come and speak on any of the models?
TEXT> I. Alicia Seminole, I'm a teacher at Maple. I used to be at bluff. I keep hearing, all kinds of comments from administrators that people are going to volunteer,  to become an interventionist. And although that might be true for a couple of people, it's not going to be as many as you hope. I have been approached by 25 teachers since your budget came out on the website,  and they've all asked me for references  and recommendations, because there are going to be a ton of wonderful teachers that are going to leave this district, not because they're obstinate, as Lisa said, not because they want to be jerks, but because  there's an unknown. We don't have any answers. We hear ifs, a bunch of us are hoping to get some answers tonight. That's clear. We're not going to get an answer tonight. And the more you leave it open for the unknowns, the more that people are going to plan on leaving. I've worked here in Claremont for 16 years, and I love this city, and I have always taught my students respect for the taxpayers in this town by everything that's provided.
NEXT> Alicia Simoneau: And I've been very thankful for 16 years, and I've told my students that several times over and over and over again. I am begging you. We want to meet

[R17092-250] Alicia Simoneau | Maple Avenue School teacher, formerly Bluff School; citizen commenter  | 2026-01-07
PREV> Alicia Simoneau: open for the unknowns, the more that people are going to plan on leaving. I've worked here in Claremont for 16 years, and I love this city, and I have always taught my students respect for the taxpayers in this town by everything that's provided.
TEXT> And I've been very thankful for 16 years, and I've told my students that several times over and over and over again. I am begging you. We want to meet with you. We want to talk to you. We don't we don't feel like we have open communication with you, and we would like to have that. So you can, can you come into my classroom and hang out for a week and see what's happening? Can you can you go visit kindergarten and see what we're dealing with? Can you go visit fifth grade and see what it's like? I have planned more for the White Mountain trip than you guys have planned for the transition. Please take some more time. Thank you.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: Jenna Gage, Ward three. My name is Jenna Gage, and this year is my fourth year as a second grade teacher at Maple Avenue School. I love Maple because of

[R17092-251] Jenna Gage | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; second-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School ( | 2026-01-07
PREV> Alicia Simoneau: you go visit kindergarten and see what we're dealing with? Can you go visit fifth grade and see what it's like? I have planned more for the White Mountain trip than you guys have planned for the transition. Please take some more time. Thank you.
TEXT> Jenna Gage, Ward three. My name is Jenna Gage, and this year is my fourth year as a second grade teacher at Maple Avenue School. I love Maple because of the people I work with in the incredible students, both the ones I teach now and those from past years who still visit me every morning. Through all this uncertainty of my job, my coworkers position, school resources, and my future in education. I have tried my best to stay optimistic. After October's decision, I hope we would finally be able to breathe.  I was wrong. I'm only 26. There's plenty of opportunities for me to go elsewhere. Yet I've stayed in the district because I care about this community by how much longer I can and will stay is a question I haven't decided yet. One of my hats at Maple is leading the Sunshine Committee, and I can honestly say it's been so difficult to keep the sunshine going each day because this year we are drained. The decision to cut staff in closing elementary school in the middle of a school year has left my colleagues and me overworked, stressed and faced with many challenges.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: We are teaching high class sizes with limited support and resources and during periods of uncertainty about or pay. And now we are learning that through all the sacrifice of

[R17092-252] Jenna Gage | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; second-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School ( | 2026-01-07
PREV> Jenna Gage: been so difficult to keep the sunshine going each day because this year we are drained. The decision to cut staff in closing elementary school in the middle of a school year has left my colleagues and me overworked, stressed and faced with many challenges.
TEXT> We are teaching high class sizes with limited support and resources and during periods of uncertainty about or pay. And now we are learning that through all the sacrifice of closing a school community, more changes are still coming. We started the year seeing people we love lose their jobs. People who helped our school run were forced out in our schools. Still haven't recovered from that decision. The loss of those 40 positions being cut shouldn't be forgotten. You need to be reminded that the choice has caused multiple staff members to add many additional responsibilities to their daily tasks, to make up for the people that were let go. Some are doing the work of three people alone. What the limited staff remaining are. Kids who are in need of additional academic support are not in compliance for those services in any school. We are exhausted from shouldering these additional job titles that you assumed our schools would function without. All this is still happening right now,  and by making another drastic change, these gaps, these positions and these problems are only going to get bigger as staff continue to leave for work places that truly value them.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: With all that being said, the students and staff are finally starting to settle with the previous closure in combination. Everyone has done their best to make this year seem

[R17092-280] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: I know we'll need less.
TEXT> It's also a nationwide problem that we have was at 1.69. That's the birth rate. So we're not we're not producing enough children to maintain our population.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Right. But that fact changes nothing for our current students. We're still out of compliance at this moment.

[R17092-281] Unidentified public commenter | Citizen commenter — did not state a name; questions on the default bud | 2026-01-07
PREV> Matt Angell: It's also a nationwide problem that we have was at 1.69. That's the birth rate. So we're not we're not producing enough children to maintain our population.
TEXT> Right. But that fact changes nothing for our current students. We're still out of compliance  at this moment.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R17092-307] Clinton Lowry | Citizen commenter, 163 Maple Avenue (onset clipped; continues in seg 5 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> My name is. Clinton Lowry. I live at 163 Maple Avenue, and I. I'm a supporter for education. But right now. I can see people that are afraid or not afraid, but demoralized. They won't speak up on the bottom of the Facebook page that says community input matters. Please attend. Stay informed. Make your voice heard. I'm here to tell you that it's a perfect storm. It's not just the school district financial  problem, but we just had that tax reassessment  in Claremont. I don't know about others, but if you live in Claremont. My taxes went up 26%. So now we're looking at more money. I get I can get wound up. One of my big peeves. I've seen superintendents leave get whether they're fired  or not. And they have maybe a year. They still get that extra pay for a year. When does a teacher ever been paid an extra year paid or business manager? Whether they are good or bad  and they quit, or for some reason they're somehow you finally read some small print  that they had a a stipend and money. And it seems like Claremont has been too loose with money. It's a whole lot easier to spend. I tell my kids to save.
NEXT> Clinton Lowry: Please be careful on the money. It's not all just about money. But I'm telling you, there are a lot of hurting people in Claremont, and they're afraid to come

[R17092-325] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2026-01-07
PREV> Loren Howard: per year. That was my math. And that divided by 12 is just over $50. So I hear that the pockets are hurting, in terms of taxes, but I think this is going to be one of the least significant increases that has happened recently.
TEXT> And I think our tax system in the state is broken, and there's a much larger conversation about how property taxes should work that is not for this venue. But with that said, I think $600 on $250,000 a property a year, $50 a month. If, for example, the house is a it's a three family. So if you have two tenants and you needed to make up an extra $50 a month, your two tenants are paying 25 extra dollars a month. And again, I hear you, none of us want to be taxed in a way that is abusive, but I think currently that's the position we put in by the state.  So I think what we've heard, at least in my years, is that we need a year of stability in a much, much more thought out plan. I proposed previously loose ideas around kindergarten, leaving one elementary school, you know, next year, and then each successive year, we'd take a grade out of that school so a student wouldn't actually be leaving.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Like, no students would leave the school. They wouldn't be a kindergarten one year, and anyone entering kindergarten would go to Disney. And we, you know, reconfigure in a way

[R17092-338] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just good.
TEXT> I just don't know what's. On one hand, everybody's hurting because they don't have sufficient staff. We're not meeting required, needs for students. And on the other hand, in order to restore that, it has the biggest impact on the budget. There's no way to come to a happy medium with that. From your perspective.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Under the three school model, it will be difficult to get it smaller.

[R17092-357] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So there's nothing. Okay.
TEXT> I  have to disagree about the $650, being something that people should be able to, digest or internalize. One of the reasons why our tax rate is so high and the reason why  the portion that is attributed to the school  is because we haven't done a really good job at watching our pennies, and we haven't done a very good job of managing human resources. And we have been talking about reconfiguration for probably 6 or 7 years, because we've recognized that the model that we have is completely unsustainable and is egregiously wasteful and on equitable  as far as classroom size,  and when you have 60% of families that have less than $1,000 in their savings account, and that's a statistic,  the idea of $650 is meaningful. And I guess I have to speak from experience. And right now, my current life, I have a fantastic career. I'm very financially stable. But when I was a mom that moved into Claremont and I was working 50, 55, 60 hours a week, no child support, had a mortgage,  and I got my tax bill and I had allocated out my budget.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That tax bill prevented me from getting snow tires. I had to make a critical choice, and I ended up skating around for a year with my kids in the

[R17092-365] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (recognized by the Chair at seg 627; Whitney refer | 2026-01-07
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: and they said, you know, the quality of our schools is terrible. And. I think you have to put yourself in the place of an average working parent, a homeowner, and they say for 30 years have been here in this nonsense for 30 years.
TEXT> The attendance has been dropping for 30 years, the grades have been dropping faster, and for 30 years the price has been going up. And now they look at this disaster that we're dealing with.  And the first information we had last April was a one to a $1.5 million bust.  And then. In July  we found out it was all lies and it was X. And we took a lot of steps  to change X2X by one fourth. And the average guy looks at it and he thinks about this and he says, you all suck. You don't know whether  you were off by 1 million. 1.5 million, 55.011, 10 or 12. So why can't you do it with $12 million less? If you got through this year,  you should be going with $12 million less. Well, if you do that, that's not realistic either. And that that's just dooming us to, worse grades and giving up on generations of kids.  So I think we're trying to reach a balance. And I think we got to try and make the increase as little as possible, and we got to focus on the quality. You haven't heard about all the things that Miss Kennedy and Mr. Angel working on.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: We've got three different accounting systems for payroll, and they showed me it this week. You got to do this system. And then you you write down all the numbers

[R17092-495] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: some point in time we're going to be will be forced to. And I know there's some discrepancies about whether or not our population is going to increase. There has been just down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down. It's nationwide. It's not Claremont.
TEXT> And even if we have economic growth here, to Mr. Angel's point, there's truly a birth rate issue and an affordability issue. People aren't having kids. And a lot of the apartments that are coming in are two bedroom apartments that are really designed not to have kids. They're not welcoming for kids, three, three bedroom apartments. I mean, there's a strategy to the development that's going on in the community. So I have to. Like  bring out that reality. And quite frankly, going to the three school configuration, although it would be messy. And I'm not here saying rainbows, unicorns, anything like that, I get it. I think it will be very messy probably initially in the first few months, but it will be the terminal move. That's it done  and we will not. I cannot foresee us going to a two school model unless the unless our demographics become so extreme that we do not have to do a footprint modification at CMS. I also think, and I've heard from the high school and I've heard across the district  that we need more guidance, support, and this model actually pushes in guidance support at the high school. I think  it would bring down the guidance counselor to student ratio to 17179. And that would help with the transition of the middle school, the seventh and eighth graders, to the middle school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I also put that provision in of the .25 as a push down to the upper elementary school, to give them adequate supports and to help with the sixth graders

[R17092-496] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: this model actually pushes in guidance support at the high school. I think it would bring down the guidance counselor to student ratio to 17179. And that would help with the transition of the middle school, the seventh and eighth graders, to the middle school.
TEXT> I also put that provision in of the .25  as a push down to the upper elementary school, to give them adequate supports and to help with the sixth graders transition.  And I think that there is I don't believe anybody has looked at this. I didn't look at this until I started looking at it, because I was concerned about integrating the middle school kids into the high school. Then I, I remembered that my daughter went to a six through 12 school, completely integrated. Their plays were multi age and there is tons of there is meaningful amounts of of literature out there, particularly in European countries and in Massachusetts where they're, they're transitioning to the 7 to 12 model because it provides a much longer runway. It's called the runway effect or the family effect, and it helps to improve graduation rates in the way that it helps to improve graduation rates. Is everyone is right. When a transition occurs,  there is often a dip in academic achievement. And so when you have that transition from the middle school to the high school, you get a dip in ninth grade and that dip becomes a permanent part of your transcript. When you go to when you apply to college.  And this long runway model allows for kids to actually kind of mature within the school, and by the time they're heading in to ninth grade, they it's not a transition for them into ninth grade.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And they have an they have a community. They're not transitioning anywhere. And it gives an opportunity for the administration and the teachers to pick up on problems that kids

[R17092-497] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: When you go to when you apply to college. And this long runway model allows for kids to actually kind of mature within the school, and by the time they're heading in to ninth grade, they it's not a transition for them into ninth grade.
TEXT> And they  have an they have a community. They're not transitioning anywhere. And it gives an opportunity for the administration and the teachers to pick up on problems that kids are having and to help mitigate those problems before they go to the critical nine through 12 years. And so I recognize wholeheartedly, and I'm not dismissing  that there are negative effects to some children, but many children. Are okay. With it,  I understand, or will rebound very quickly. And there are positive attributes to having a three school model that I hadn't thought about before I started really looking into it. So I think it's it's it's worth it's worth a look and it's worth being considered and it's worth further exploration. And what I'm looking for is an opportunity from today until the public hearing is to do some rough modeling on what a program would look like.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: At the high school, I became so impassioned about this that I actually tracked down the architect who did the remodeling at the high school and got the plans so

[R17092-500] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (merged cluster — Madden, Rapp and other male voic | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: hiring anybody with just using existing staff. And we all know how challenging is to feel vacancies. It's also the model with the lowest vacancy rates to fill, so we have a much higher likelihood of filling vacancies. So that's my pitch. And Mr. Sprague.
TEXT> So so I'm going to be clear I every every school I ever worked in other than Stevens High School was a a six through 12 model. So I know the model itself works. I worked at Newport for, for 13 years, and, was the middle school principal while I was there. And so I'm very, very familiar with with that and the, the angst of fifth grade parents sending their kids to a six through 12 school. And we had literally no problems with the interactions. I mean, virtually no problems with interactions between middle and high school kids. My concern is our ability to do that at Stevens High School. I'm also very familiar with the layout of Stevens High School, having worked there for eight years,  so and attended for for four years. So, I just I just haven't seen a plan  for that that makes me comfortable that we could pull that off. And I mean, a real plan. And so I, I'm,  I'm a no. One on this one,  even though I know the model works a 6 to 12 configuration, but I just I just don't see it at Stevens High School with the middle school coming up, I just I can't envision it in my schedule was mind. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins.

[R17092-502] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins.
TEXT> Reading through the questions and answers that were submitted to the administration regarding all of the models and budget options, the the piece that came out loud and clear to me regarding the three school model was the mismatch of program scheduling, the mismatch of programs. And based on what you're saying as well, it takes time to organize that kind of program coordination that runs smoothly up through the grades. Again, the lack of consistent stability  in a leadership model at this point in time. I also read in the comments that it's it's completely no,  it is impossible to completely segregate the middle school kids from the high school kids at Stevens High School. That's what I read in the comments.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We never did at any school. I worked.

[R17092-550] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any language changing in the.
TEXT> There is a memorandum of understanding that the regarding the student support, student support.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Student service. Coordinators.

[R17092-551] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (sentence continuation) | 2026-01-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: There is a memorandum of understanding that the regarding the student support, student support.
TEXT> Student service. Coordinators.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Where their work year is defined more clearly and that there will be a committee engaged during the length of the two year contract for research and compensation beyond Claremont,

[R17092-576] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Is that the gentleman we met earlier?
TEXT> No, it's actually not okay. And so he was actually with the WCC. Emma, this is actually somebody who is a public school educator and it actually his other 2/5. So we're looking for somebody who's 3/5 is other 2/5 in a close by neighborhood, you know, district next door to us. So his name is Mr. Ian Gallup. And so we would like to bring forward his name. He would be at step 17, a master's plus 15, which is the annual rate of 71,831. But because he's point six, it's three days a week, seven hours a day, 21 hours a week. His amended amount for the the 3/5 would be for $33,099, but then realize it's per rated from January to June. So it's even less than that. And so this money was already budgeted for the previous music teacher. This would allow for some more music instruction to happen. So what's missing right now is the graded aspect of music instruction. So even though we improved the money for the band and the chorus, which again, we regardless of the model we would play  for next year, we still don't have the students getting regular music instruction, so it's still not perfect because we would have a sub still two days a week, but it's definitely closer and we would do that. So we would bring forward and hopefully make a motion to ratify him as a teacher at CMS. Yes, Mr. Speaker.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can make a motion.

[R17092-582] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: language of the filming of students to being aired. There is something and we're working on that with our ESL instructor. Grace is one little section is about the wider testing, which is a state testing for students who are speaking of a non-native speakers.
TEXT> And there is a speaking section where they have to get permission from their families, obviously, to native language, saying that they allow them to be, they have to record them in order to grade their speaking  abilities. And so that would still be there. But we want to make sure that folks understand. The good news is, like I said, our release already covered a lot of what it had. And so we would just make sure everybody's aware with the technical advisory. And then again, if parents want to change their permissions, it's fine. But it already had come out in the beginning of the year. It's part of our onboarding process. Every year the students come in. So that was a good news. So yes.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So right now it came out that last week or the week before we ended recording of sports or broadcasting of sports. Is that back.

[R17092-587] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: You can still feel what.
TEXT> So that's the big part that we're still working on the legal part of it. And so with the, like the know, it's very hard, you know, in a public thing. And so that's something that would need to be put into this thing. So if you're saying no, your child can't be filmed, just realize then that may limit what their access is to it. Because if you're in sports, you know, it's not like in a public domain, like so we did the Halloween parade. It was outside in a public piece. You know, there's no guarantee of privacy in that part of it. And so it's a little bit different here. And so people need to be aware. And that's to the general public. And so there is no assumption of privacy in the public domain. Obviously here this is where we want to, you know, kind of put it out there saying you understand your child in this setting a sport, it could be a concert, it could be, you know, some sort of performance would be filmed. Right? And we can't, you know, very easily do that.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so we don't want to assume the liability for that. So people have to be aware of that going into that, that they would potentially be filmed. And so

[R17092-589] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: little bit on the filming release to make sure people are really clear. The technical advisory, by saying, yes, you allow the filming that you understand your liability as you know, the person deciding for your family that they cannot, you know, won't be filmed.
TEXT> That they. So yes, I'm participating in basketball, which means my child. Would. Be. Potentially be filmed.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Right? Because all of. Those, you know, are filmed.

[R17092-591] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-01-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Right? Because all of. Those, you know, are filmed.
TEXT> If I choose no, that means my child is not participating in whatever.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That would be. You know. A ramification of that. And that's what people need to be aware of. So I apologize.

[R17092-595] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> So we'll be in the next couple of days. We just want to make sure you're aware of it next couple days. Rereleasing everything, adding the technical advisory, making sure families are absolutely clear of what they're signing up for. So like Mr. Peter said, you know, that we can't not film something and we can't guarantee students privacy. So if you want them to be able to participate, you have to understand that filming is part of it. And then that's a consequence of that part of it. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, thank you for running down all these details. I don't think the world knows how what kind of hamster wheel will who these people are. And and when we're

[R17095-34] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Matt Angell: So it's. Not available for the public for viewing because it has student names.
TEXT> And oh, I thought that was going to be redacted. I apologize. I apologize. We do not have this some student data redacted out. Apologize for that misinformation. Is there any request to amend the agenda or  any discussion of the minutes to amend the minutes seeing none will move forward to the consent agenda and its accept. Next is citizens comments. Anybody who would like to speak to non-agenda items can approach the podium. We allow three minutes to speak. Miss Cronenberg will be keeping time. Please state your name and your ward, and you'll have an opportunity if you so choose to speak again. After a motion is made  to move forward on an action item prior to us voting.
NEXT> Eric Peabody: Good evening, Eric Peabody Award two. I attended the public hearing last night. The there was a slide about the budget cap proposal. There seemed to be some confusion on

[R17095-89] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Jason Bonneville: Thank you.
TEXT> Another follow up item was pre-K services for current students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Sure. Christina Stanford is here from the preschool services part of it, too. So I just wanted to clarify some information. Because I know there's a question about some students

[R17095-90] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Another follow up item was pre-K services for current students.
TEXT> Sure. Christina Stanford is here from the preschool services  part of it, too. So I just wanted to clarify some information.  Because I know there's a question about some students that are not receiving services. So we do have we've had total 30 referrals this year. We've had 19 meetings. We still have five more to hold.  And we've had 15 evaluations that are completed. And the one thing is nine students have qualified. So not every student that has been evaluated qualifies for an IEP. Three students did not. And then three students are still a work in progress. I don't know, Christina, not to put you on the spot. If there's anything you would like to elaborate on specifically about preschool, or if there's any specific questions that folks have. So we have maybe, maybe. I don't know if you could describe the drop in services program for just a few seconds. I didn't really get a chance to talk to you specifically, but okay. Hi there. Christina Sanford, preschool coordinator.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: For the Claremont School District. So, as you know, we don't have a preschool classroom or program this year, so we had to get really creative about how we're going

[R17095-92] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Christina Sanford: that many students to have them each come in individually for all of the services provided in their IEP can be really challenging just scheduling wise. So we had to get creative about how we can get them in for a small amount of time.
TEXT> You know, we don't have a classroom teacher. We don't have any parent supporting that. It is myself and my amazing related services going way above and beyond what their role is, to make sure that kids are getting what they need, that they're getting some pure exposure, that they're getting some introduction to school before kindergarten. Because school readiness is a is a big concern for those kindergarten teachers as they enter the elementary schools  and not having a preschool program, that's a big concern for them not having same age peers and introduction to school readiness. So we have kids that come in for small group services. We also have kids that come in for individualized services for just whatever service they might have. Some parents aren't comfortable leaving them  alone, so they come in with them and stay during their speech services or whatever that might look like. And then we also have been really lucky to have some great community partnerships this year. So I have students placed at Head Start  place at Green Mountain and placed at the one for all center. So we also have kids coming in, and then we go out in the community and we go to those childcare centers. We also provide services right there. So I would say, yes, we've had 30 referrals so far is what was on the paper.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: I got another one today. We can bump that up to 31. As kids turn three. So students, anybody can have a referral at any point for when there's developmental,

[R17095-93] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Christina Sanford: So we also have kids coming in, and then we go out in the community and we go to those childcare centers. We also provide services right there. So I would say, yes, we've had 30 referrals so far is what was on the paper.
TEXT> I got another one today. We can bump that up to 31.  As kids turn three. So students, anybody can have a referral at any point for when there's developmental, concerns for our preschoolers, but also  as students who are receiving early supports and services.  Six months before they turn three, we start the transition process to go from early sports and services to special education. So most of those referrals, I would say, come from early sports and services. And just being prepared to do the transition from early sports and services to special education services. So an IEP needs to be in place if they qualify by their third birthday.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So yes.

[R17095-103] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: I. See.
TEXT> Come from. So if a child is receiving services under the age of three they get early sports and services for three to age 22. That's that would be special education. So there's that transition between two and a half to three years old. So most of ours come from pathways.  And we I am going to a transition meeting tomorrow. So we have a nice relationship with them and make sure that we are in compliance and that everything's done timely. Otherwise the state will dig us if we do not have IEPs in place by their third birthday. That has been a problem in the past. I have cleaned that up.  I would say other referrals would be from parents. Family members can make a referral.  Teachers.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So how would teachers if they don't already have the kids in school?

[R17095-109] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: And how do you create improvements in socialization if it's a drop in service?
TEXT> That is a big concern of mine. So,  how do children learn? Children at the earliest level learn through imitation and having those same aged peers to learn from. I mean, we we're talking about speech models. We're talking about play models. We're just talking about routine. So having other children to model off of how to sit at a circle, how to sit during snack time, how to line up and go down the hallway. Those are all really important skills to practice with peers. And not having a program to practice those skills in is a big concern of mine. Having services provided in a drop in setting where we can at least have some peers to interact with and play with is my best case scenario right now, because I. I don't have the option to have a preschool program.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: When you say drop in services, say, when I hear the word drop in, it seems like kids just kind of drop in. It could they drop in or is

[R17095-110] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Christina Sanford: big concern of mine. Having services provided in a drop in setting where we can at least have some peers to interact with and play with is my best case scenario right now, because I. I don't have the option to have a preschool program.
TEXT> When you say drop in services, say, when I hear the word drop in, it seems like kids just kind of drop in.  It could they drop in or is it mostly scheduled services?
NEXT> Christina Sanford: I have to have everything scheduled to a tee. You know, we we have to make sure that our related services are able to meet the needs that are on

[R17095-113] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Thank you. Yeah.
TEXT> Miss Hawkins. Just a quick question. When you have students being brought in for services, do you rely on the parents providing transportation to get them to you?
NEXT> Christina Sanford: I rely on the parents for transportation. We do have a handful of children who do receive transportation through the school district, because they do not have transportation otherwise to

[R17095-114] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins. Just a quick question. When you have students being brought in for services, do you rely on the parents providing transportation to get them to you?
TEXT> I rely on the parents for transportation. We do have a handful of children who do receive  transportation through the school district, because they do not have transportation otherwise to receive their services.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And do you have where if a child is in one of the community partnerships like Headstart or Green Mountain, and they discontinue their attendance there, what happens then?

[R17095-115] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Christina Sanford: I rely on the parents for transportation. We do have a handful of children who do receive transportation through the school district, because they do not have transportation otherwise to receive their services.
TEXT> And do you have where if a child is in one of the community partnerships like Headstart or Green Mountain, and they discontinue their attendance there, what happens then?
NEXT> Christina Sanford: I am. Currently in that situation due to a few of my children have now lost, their child care. So a lot of children in our community receive childcare vouchers

[R17095-118] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: allow our community partners or pay our community port partners instead of the parents who have lost the vouchers to ensure that those socialization skills happen? It's a way of creating a partnership that uses that efficiency of having that in community. You know, access.
TEXT> Is a possibility because, I mean, I would say  a concern is that we have a lot of children that don't have access to preschool programing at this time.  I don't know the details of what that might look like, but if we're not able to provide that, it might be something that we would like to look into. Yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you very much.

[R17095-122] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Coming out late after working. Great. So for sure. Certainly.
TEXT> I wanted to talk about as I was looking at this, there are 30 kids.  Each kid gets 33 hours a week. No, three hours each week of services,  but one hour per week.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: It depends on where they are and what kind of services they get. But so my small groups come in for an hour and a half a day. So it

[R17095-125] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (as announced; introd | 2026-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: And so related services when they meet with when they meet with the speech person or ot what is the length of that session.
TEXT> It depends on what is in their IEP. So some students might have  one group session for 30 minutes. Another student might have 315 minute individual sessions. It depends on what the needs are. And we have to kind of really piece that together when we're making these schedules.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So can you ask me for me how many how many FTEs of related services are currently engaged with.

[R17095-222] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: I know we can get to that number without cutting anything.
TEXT> Why can't.  Okay. And you won't, Okay. I could support that that amendment. If if people agreed to have  the sports  on a separate warrant article, I think that it's well within the,  our purview. We know that. Believe me, I am. I fully support athletics. I know, I mean, personally, my kids, they went to school because of athletics that kept them in school. And however,  it has an option and we have a lot of other educationally based criteria that we have to meet. And we've already cut out the six interventionists, the two instructional coaches, the school psychologist, the counselors, which those amount to about 860,000. Is that correct? 850. 800.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's more than that. That's what. I thought. But what I'm saying to that number is that's the that's who I cut out.

[R17095-226] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: we hold dear. And just to perceive the status quo when we could do some implement, some really high impact, although controversial kind of things, and we act as if we're not in an academic crisis. We act like we're not in a financial crisis.
TEXT> And both of those things are true right now, and we have a great opportunity  to hold ourselves fiscally accountable and still hold true to our values without putting voters in an untenable and unfair position to choose whether their kids or their grandkids play sports or whether their taxes go up, I think it's our responsibility. As Crawford.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I, This didn't this didn't happen overnight. We've been talking no, we have been talking about this budget for three months. We haven't we have been talking. And whether the

[R17095-259] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2026-01-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: The intervention is.
TEXT> Instructional approaches. So I just I disagree with that part. The school psychologist,  the I looked it up today on the school psychologist association and the recommended caseload ideal ideal caseload is 500 kids per school psychologist.  And if you do the easy math that's three school psychologist not for. And so in fact many districts have 1000 to 1 ratio. Not uncommon not  obviously ideal but not uncommon. So we really could do with two school psychologists in reality. So just saying they can publish them.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: If we have 1500 kids.

[R17095-260] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: easy math that's three school psychologist not for. And so in fact many districts have 1000 to 1 ratio. Not uncommon not obviously ideal but not uncommon. So we really could do with two school psychologists in reality. So just saying they can publish them.
TEXT> If we have 1500 kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We do 500 each. That's that's three. Yeah.

[R17095-306] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: there. I mean, there's there's no there's no way of there's no way of saying the efficiencies aren't built into our infrastructure because the way our infrastructure is currently laid out is the way. And again, that's a dead issue. Any other discussion, Mr. Madden?
TEXT> Mike said the cap is a threat that's out there.  I don't think it's a threat. I think a lot of people want that.  And. If you put in simple terms. I myself have not seen any changes below this level.  I haven't seen any changes in the school, I haven't given I haven't seen anything that gives me any hope  that the scores are going to go up. I say, let's get at a prep course. Everybody said yes, that it never gets done. I see low standards  and I see low expectations, so I'm not seeing any change. So if the taxpayer behind me is nudging me, said, you've been telling me going on three decades, you come up with this money and we'll educate your kids.  Well, we got a 25% proficiency in math. I could use that as a definition for child abuse. So it's not a threat. People are fed up.  And then we lecture. We have the audacity to lecture the people. You know, we had the 80 year old man on a fixed income. I used to go for coffee every morning at the one way bakery.  You know, the senior citizens do when they pay off their mortgage  and they're looking to save money because things are tight.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: They drop their insurance. It was a woman in the bakery last year who was living in the shelter and spending on warnings in the coffee shop because she had

[R17095-308] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: house. You know, we can all have these, you know, but to lecture people, we're the government and we're just treating them like slaves and we're not delivering anything to them. So. The cap is not a threat. The cap is what we're up against.
TEXT> Just to clarify, the cap, the way it was worded and the way it works with the with the expenditures and the student, that 35 million, it would be different if it was capped at a different level. So that the way because we cut so much this year, the way that  cap would come out, I think is quite a threat to disrupt our education, I agree.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes, Miss Hawkins.

[R17095-507] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Second open for discussion. Seeing no discussion on favor of approving the motion as stated, I.
TEXT> Okay, so, this is here. You can have. This is the warrant article. So there's going to be one of the articles. Please ignore it. And so. What we have to do is A normal a normal process for the warrant is the board votes. Each of the articles onto the warrant. And part of that is making a recommendation for the,  for the articles. Okay.  Because otherwise it would be as if the administration had done it. Okay. Well, the first one, unfortunately, I don't think you need to vote on the first one is the election of school district officers. Under article one, it's going to be two school board members for a three year term. One moderator for a one year term, one district clerk for a one year term, and one district treasurer for one year term. In opposition for putting that on the one. The second one is the main budget. Okay. And so similar to last night, we have to talk about the per pupil costs at $26,012.84. The Ela proficiency at 35%. Math proficiency at 25%. Science proficiency at 29%. Let's see the the warrant article. Do you want me to read them all? Normally, I do.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Whatever you feel comfortable with knowing out.

[R17095-644] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I don't like the idea of making them prisoners if we can't get our stuff together. Same on us.
TEXT> A clarification it doesn't change, whether parents can send their children elsewhere. It just limits the liability for the Claremont School District.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Shame on us.

[R17095-647] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard.
TEXT> I would just I mean, I think I need a little more articulation than just shame on us regarding this. I again, I think to put the tax burden on somebody, we go to a school outside of it is would be shame on us. So I think eliminating sending other kids to open and Roman schools, that is on our dime with a good thing and that, you know, parents want to pay for it or take advantage of efforts. Then they can do that. But, I don't see how it's a shameful thing on us. And if anything, hopefully will benefit the taxpayer to not prevent.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I agree with you on principle. But in our current financial situation, it brings me to say it. But I would have to agree with this. Adopting this. Okay.

[R17095-653] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: I opposed Mr. Madden's post. No. Abstentions.
TEXT> Is article nine. Adoption of the school district budget cap saw number six. Claremont, new. The school district 2026 saw six school district meeting petition warrant article. Shall we adopt the provisions of RSA 325 and implement a budget cap whereby the School Board or Budget Committee shall not submit a recommended budget that is higher  than the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost times the average daily membership in residents of. The. School as of October 1st of the year immediately preceding the proposed budget year, plus an annual increase for inflation using CPU for the Boston, Cambridge Newton, mass. New Hampshire area, published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as of January 1st, requires a 3/5 majority vote of the school district. This is required to go on, so this is not a vote to go on. This is a vote as to whether you recommend or you don't recommend.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard.

[R17095-660] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Matt Angell: a recommended budget that is higher than the 2526 budget. So next fall, your budget that you that we're all going to put together can't be higher. So next year would be at part three, article two, and then the following year would be limited.
TEXT> So the per pupil question was resolved.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Was it you mean the per pupil question?

[R17095-661] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: So the per pupil question was resolved.
TEXT> Was it you mean the per pupil question?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I thought we were. It was a draconian $9 million cut.

[R17095-663] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: I thought we were. It was a draconian $9 million cut.
TEXT> Yes. So, so the per pupil in that calculation of the $9 million. Okay. I  took our the latest budget versus actual expenditure report  for all funds, and I use the states form to calculate the per pupil cost. So if we're encumbered the funds, I'm assuming that they were expended. So I came up with a per pupil cost using the states form. I applied the latest,  was it average daily membership in residence, which is not the latest that per this, but it's the most recent information I have. Okay.  And and I try to follow it through as best I can. Also using, the CPU, I had to use November's because January 1st isn't out yet. So I came up with  the $9 million and $9 million cut over  over option A that was presented last night. It's not. It's going to be a little different than the article two. Ivan calculated the difference.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay.

[R17095-735] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: You're saying that that's the second.
TEXT> But if you could have a great doctor, doctor doing surgeries and could cut you open and keep you alive and, and do a great surgery, but you may not want that doctor running your hospital because they have no idea how to manage and how to run a hospital. So we are still open to finding an educator or superintendent that can is a great manager. They're also opening it up to look elsewhere and see what else is out there to expand our field of who we can come and have come around the district. We then have the support the people under the executive director to make sure curriculums on target, to make sure, you know, students are getting educated the way they need to be educated. So it's a multi approach.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I mean, I asked, did we cut the assistant superintendent position out of the budget. And that ended. The assistant superintendent ended as the person who was the curriculum person

[R17095-740] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: And right now this is where we're this is a situation that we're in is that. We're at we're struggling for air here. And so for me, the primacy is financial stability and security period. And a story we can't deliver education without financial stability.
TEXT> Then you're obviously this is the majority of the board from what I'm hearing. And that's the direction the board will go in. I just want to also point out an HR director was hired with no educational experience. And at the time I was on that committee and I was told. Don't worry, it will be great. The person will be fine. That person had no understanding of human resources in an educational system. I'm just saying that I still believe our primary function is delivering education, advocating for students, advocating for public education, and working to improve it.  I don't know how this model does that well. In my opinion.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The person who recommended that HR director was the superintendent.

[R17095-748] Don Lavalette | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified as 'Don ... Ward two'; surna | 2026-01-21
PREV> Don Lavalette: it makes no sense to go outside and and speaking of that, the curriculum and program and having one of those tell me in a real world where one person is expected to know a pay to 12 curriculum, it just that's a fool's fantasy.
TEXT> It just doesn't exist. There's no way you can do that. I spent years teaching everyday math and I still didn't have it all mastered, so we're going to expect one person to be the curriculum director. Makes no sense. Localize it. We have teachers here that we could easily take the money that we are going to spend buying instructional coaches, and again, it just in an align model. Our resources are together, second grade teams all together. They've got these master teachers who by the way, if you haven't taken a look to see what they need to get for that, you should sometime. I have plenty of extra copies. It's not easy and it could be done without cost to the teacher. And I look at the amount of stipends and money that we give out for things that have far less bearing on student test scores, and shocking to me that we haven't taken advantage of that program. So anyway, thanks. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: All right. Are you ready to end discussion?

[R17095-767] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any discussion. In favor. Of emotion as stated? Say hi. I any opposition seeing none.
TEXT> The next policy before you is the it's a revised policy. We currently have  policy JLCK. The current policy just refers to the physical well-being of students. This revised policy that we're bringing forward is a priority policy, which means it is based on legislation. And we are required to have a policy, regarding this, this comes under. 0604 B15 and what it does is it offers greater substance in relation to both physical and emotional needs of students. And there are procedures to address and achieve these goals under three areas now, not only physical but emotional, mental health and prevention and intervention. The current policy that we have that was also in your packet only identifies physical health needs, and it's only three paragraphs long. So this has more substance to it. Our policy that's currently in place was adopted 2017. The the sample we're providing you is from 2025.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Let's make a motion for the purpose of discussion to to move.

[R17095-771] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-21
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: So I'm curious about the Appropriate social emotional learning programs. Do we do that? And what does. That. Look like?
TEXT> Can you, can you have a step which is about a social emotional learning program that's used nationwide, this research base, we also use Miss Kendra at the lower level grades. It's another support program for students in social emotional learning.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So that's all computerized things isn't just Kendra a program?

[R17095-791] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Yes.
TEXT> It's a Monday. I thought it was a Tuesday. So if I told anybody Tuesday, it's Monday. And we are going to get another update on per student preschool cost integration.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Because I. Had a I was one. Of that was became. Through one meetings in additional cost was. So I don't know if there's an additional information. That there's been

[R17116-3] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-01-20
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Frank Sprague here. Bill Madden here. Candace Crawford here. Arlene Hawkins here. Michael patron here. Heather Whitney here.
TEXT> Because we haven't before. We have a consent agenda.  Is there any requests for amendments, or does the board approve  the agenda as written? Seeing no objection. A request for amendments. We're going to accept the agenda. I'd like to open the meeting by welcoming everyone. The purpose of the meaning of this meeting is to hear your thoughts on the two proposed school budgets that were selected by the school board on January 7th. The three school budget was not advanced to this hearing and will not be discussed tomorrow at our regularly scheduled meeting. The board will decide which of this evening's presented budgets will move to the deliberative session on Saturday, February 7th, 9 a.m. right here where we are tonight. We recognize that this school year has been extremely difficult. Staff, students and families have experienced stress and disruption due to staff reductions, program and athletic cuts, and the closure of left school. We also acknowledge the financial strain, uncertainty and fully justified concerns. Taxpayers have these concerns and your comments this evening will be considered when we deliver it tomorrow. Mr. Angel, our interim business administrator, and Miss Kennedy, our interim superintendent, will start the meeting with an overview of the proposed budgets and warrant articles that have an impact on either revenue or appropriations.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. O'Shaughnessy, our district's legal counsel, has kindly made himself available to address any procedural questions that are raised by the board. After the administration's presentation, we will open the

[R17116-7] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: we try to do is we try to make it so that on each slide, if, if, if it has like a red bolded item on the left hand side, that's option A, and on the right hand side it's going to be option B.
TEXT> And those slides will have like a gray  thing on on the right hand side. So option B is going to be the for school current configuration model. Under this model there will be two K-5 elementary schools, one middle school and one high school. The proposed budget for this is $46,211,951. The dollar change to the current year is $3,032,387, for 7.02%. This is going to be the proposed warrant article that you're going to see on the ballot. Okay.  New this year is going to be the top item there where it talks about the average cost per pupil for the preceding year is calculated in the courts with RSA 189, colon 75, Roman numeral one A, which is $26,012.84, Ela, which is English language art proficiency, is 35%, math proficiency is 25%. In science proficiency is 29%. Onto the warrant article. Shall the Claremont School District raise an appropriate as an operating budget? The amount set forth in the  budget proposed with a warrant or as amended by vote of the first session and second session, for the purposes set forth therein, totaling 44,844,373. Should this article be defeated, the default budget shall be 44,000,490 $49,704, which is the same as last year, with certain adjustments required by previous action of the Claremont School District or by law.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Or the governing body may hold one special meeting in accordance with RSA 4113. Roman numeral ten and Roman numeral 16. To take up the issue of a revised operating

[R17116-9] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: the issue of a revised operating budget only vote required, the school board recommends this article. Tomorrow night is when the school board is going to make a recommendation on any of these articles. So you're going to see this to be blank this evening.
TEXT> Good evening.  We want to discuss some goals. And so with this option A which is the aligned model.  One of the proposals that we have put forth is the increased achievement of students at all levels. And then the decrease the gaps between the subgroups. So because by moving the students into an aligned model of groups by age  or by grades, we would be able to provide services along those lines to those grades and those subgroups. More concisely,  we would also make sure there's a requirement of exhibit compliance with the required services. And obviously we need to do that maximizing our resources, making sure that our time and personnel  across the district are in one place. And so in said, of having to travel from building to building for some related services. BJ ot they would be right there by grade level,  be able to access the students right away. Our goal is to provide a plan that identifies the strengths and weaknesses. They want to make sure the school reorganization,  as we know it needs to shift over the years and things. And again, I have to start on that and making sure we can identify what's the strong points and where we need to work on some of that reconfiguration.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We want to provide for staffing for all levels of instruction. So tier one is your typical Ell students are at tier one level, tier two where students in need

[R17116-18] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: present that. That's our goal. As schools, we want to make sure our students are at their level so that they should be at be deficient and that there's no gaps in between the subgroups. And then, of course, it's your compliance with required services.
TEXT> Regardless of that, we've made sure for the models that would be there, the again, transportation would still be available. Thank you.  And students would be available at the elementary schools similar to what it is now. Parents will have the drop  off and pick up points and that would change the staggered school start we're still looking at though, to make sure it's efficient. Depending on which model,  to make sure students can get all the buildings where they want to be and at the same time.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Similar to option A, the revenues will be flat as compared to the past tax rate. Setting local revenues would be $4,815,880. Adequacy aid would be $16,931,007. The total tax

[R17116-23] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: and or consummate this conveyance, including securing necessary approvals and executing the necessary documents with said sales, subject to the district's compliance with the statutory right of first refusal provision granted to Turner Schools by RSA 194 colon 61. This is a majority vote required.
TEXT> Okay, so what we've been doing since the leasing of bluff  is a possibility. There's a nonprofit organization that would be starting a collaborative, looking at special education and discussing what would be the purpose of  the building.  We want to make sure we have some options for special education collaborative.  We want to reduce the cost. We want to make sure, if we can, to bring back some students that are in and district claim placements, and by creating our own out of district placement in district,  we would be able to bring some resources in the superintendents in the southwest area for discussing this as a possibility. They have similar needs and looking at different schools options or districts options about what are the  special education needs that would go along with this. So under the proposal,  the district received annual income that would offset the tax rate. And then it also hopefully would preserve the school. So we don't have to sell it. And we should we need it for future growth. So we want to make sure we have the access and the people to use the building skill as it is. So, that we need more along the lines of the lease as opposed to the sale of the building.
NEXT> Matt Angell: The next ward articles of sale, or at least a 52 maple have for the Sonic Lodge. Shall the district vote to authorize the school board to sell, or at

[R17116-26] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: have access to it some other way. Somebody else will be able to access the building. So we're just looking at selling this property out, right. We have need right now that we can see to use the property. And it should be just so.
TEXT> The final warrant article for this presentation is the adoption of the school district budget for the Saw six. Claremont Unity School District 2026 saw six school district meeting petition warrant article. Shall we adopt the provisions of RSA 325 and implement a budget cap whereby the School Board or Budget Committee shall not submit a recommended budget that is higher than the 2025 2026 fiscal year per pupil cost times the average daily membership in residents of the school district as of October 1st of the year immediately preceding the proposed budget year, plus the annual increase for inflation using the CPU for the Boston, Cambridge Newton, mass. New Hampshire area. Posted by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as of January 1st, this requires a 3/5 majority vote of the school district submitted by petition. So I did a really quick estimate of what the tax cap would look like. And I'm estimating based upon today's information,  a comparable budget of $35,700,906. This represents a $9,143,468 decrease, or 20.39%, as compared to option A, the for school line model. Okay, I've come up with some strategies to make a recommendation to the school board, but some of these items would include, but not be limited to, the elimination of the vocational center, closing of the Dow building and moving its operations elsewhere, eliminating athletics, eliminating extracurricular activities, closing the Maple Avenue  Elementary School, converting the Tech Center to a K1 or K-2 school.
NEXT> Matt Angell: The goal is to move to a two school model that utilizes the Tech Center. Also, we would be providing transportation for what is required by law. What's required by

[R17116-40] Sherry Williams | Public commenter, Ward 1, Chestnut Street — parent and taxpayer (self- | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: stories from around town. You know, I think we need to start thinking, you know, more about what's going on with the children in town and start holding them accountable for things that happen and hold some thoughts accountable for things that happen. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Sherry Williams, Ward one, Chestnut Street. I confirmed that normally when I come and I speak to you guys, I am aware that you. This is an opportunity for me to speak and for you to listen and don't generally ask questions, because I don't expect that this is where you're going to get answers. I do have a lot of questions, so I'm going to go ahead and do that because this is kind of a different meeting. So I don't know how  the answers will work, but I want to be able to ask the questions. I do want to start by saying, this is the first meeting in what you all. Are aware has been a very difficult year, but this is the first meeting that I, as a taxpayer and a parent, am feeling rather helpless. I feel like at our last meeting you all made a decision for us and I feel like anything that I have to share is going to fall  on somewhat deaf ears, because a decision was made at the last meeting about what we as a community actually get a say in, for $26,012.84 a year per student.
NEXT> Sherry Williams: I could send my school, my child, to a school who is seeing figures like 72% English Proficiency proficiency at Mount Royal Academy for an eighth grader. Although my child

[R17116-52] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified at the mic) | 2026-01-20
PREV> Amanda Barton: to see. Exactly. I know you said eight positions. The I was listening, I, I would just like to see what are you currently have desired what we currently have at Maple, how many positions are coming back in. How many are never coming back?
TEXT> Because right now  I feel like those both those schools are packed. And I think you can redistribute some of the numbers currently. And I'm here to support our teachers. And if our teachers want to stay status quo, I want that for them, because I want those rates to the teachers to teach my children. And I am very, very nervous about that. So that's coming from my heart because I, I just don't want them to leave, and I want to make sure that we can get this tax rate to a place where our, my fellow can afford it as well, so we can find ways to go. I mean, we cut 5 million and then we borrow 3 million. I feel really good that we could do this for, So do they still have a chance to make cuts before  this goes to the delivery session? Is that what you guys will be working on? Okay, yeah.
NEXT> Matt Angell: The school board has the opportunity to make cuts tomorrow evening. So if they close the public hearing tonight, they can only make cuts. And to talk about your the

[R17116-55] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter, Ward 3 — self-identified only as 'Chris'; questions  | 2026-01-20
PREV> Amanda Barton: any money to the table. So if anything, we need to bring our voices to vote for our teachers please and staff. So just want to make sure that's clear to everybody here. And thank you again. You guys are working really hard. Thank you.
TEXT> Chris  Ward three. I don't really have a comment personally, but there was, I thought, a really good point brought up,  that I saw, which was the question that I haven't heard anyone asking yet today.  But essentially with the shift over  to the current model that we will be we will no longer be a regional district. So what is the need for a large administrative office building?  I think we've been asking teachers and students to do more with less.  I believe,  I believe this is a good idea that something you should be looked at, right? Is there a possibility of having administrators work within the schools themselves as opposed to having office spaces? Is another building. We can get rid of things of that nature. So I don't know if it's possibility. That is quite a creative and good solution that is worth considering, and no one had brought it up yet. So thank you all.
NEXT> Matt Angell: I just want to quickly address that. We have been talking, and some of the things that I have personally brought up is what to do with the building, and

[R17116-74] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter, Ward 2 — urges selling district real estate (self-ID | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: estate that's not generating any tax dollars. We wouldn't have a $5 million deficit if every every building in this town paid their tax bill. So please sell the buildings. And what is up with the tech center? Is it only open to Claremont residents?
TEXT> We have other schools tuition in their. Okay. Well it should be all of Sullivan County. I don't know how far the the reaches for the school, but  I know that we do tuition kids or other schools twisting kids in their  money maker. Yeah, some of the problem that we're facing is, is we also have an agreement with the Newport Tech Center, and we can't compete against them.
NEXT> Matt Angell: So we get to offer programs that that they don't offer. So they've got like automotive. We can't do automotive as an example. Well, who signed that non-compete? That would

[R17116-82] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: Because that has to do with the cap, right?
TEXT> No, has to do with adequacy aid. So adequacy aid, we get like, 4000 something per student. You get a certain amount for  special ed students, you get a certain amount for students that are on news. And then and then you have other Koreans that are  that are piled in there. This is called the whole harmless grant.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Okay. Is that the same thing as a mandated by law, special ed thing? Because I was curious about that.

[R17116-86] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — former district officeholder ('when I left office') | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: is the alternative Stevens Academy going? Not the special education camp, life skills, any of that stuff. Where is the academy going that does the behavioral stuff? Because they're at the tech center now, and as far as I know, that's they can't be there.
TEXT> And it didn't really. Yeah. Sorry. We're still working on that. Yeah. Okay. And then if we sell the Mason building, whatever, whatever is, if we lease left to a nonprofit collaborative. Right. Which I think is great, but would we be managing that? Like, would we be managing that or would they, like, is is the idea that they're nonprofits doing all the work and we touch nothing and then we just we pay them for the out of district kids that we're going to bring back and then just push over to the collaborative, because how is that being how is that going to affect the budget? Because I didn't really that's a huge amount of money and I'm just not seeing it.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. So I've, I've had an experience with special education collaboratives, mostly in communities south of the border. And usually what happens is, is, is you get a couple of

[R17116-87] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: district kids that we're going to bring back and then just push over to the collaborative, because how is that being how is that going to affect the budget? Because I didn't really that's a huge amount of money and I'm just not seeing it.
TEXT> Okay. So  I've, I've had an experience with special education collaboratives,  mostly in  communities south of the border. And usually what happens is, is, is you get a couple of anchor schools that,  pretty much don't see kids at, at that school. Okay. So what you get is an efficiency model where,  say, we might have like one student who has one specific  need. And but if you look at the ten schools in the area, they may have ten students. So by servicing ten students, it's actually less expensive per pupil than it is to do that. One student. Okay.  And so that's the model that we're discussing with the local area schools. And, and hopefully we can get them together. And of course, any decision to lease this building to a nonprofit would have to be approved by the school board. So if the school board is going to become a member of that,  of that collaborative, if you will hear it as a community. So if we can't do that and we can't bring in revenue to offset the tax rate, then we're going to probably sell it outright.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Oh yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. If you can't lose it, then get rid of it. I totally agree with that. I think it's a really great idea. I'm just okay wondering

[R17116-90] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — former district officeholder ('when I left office') | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: Right now, we just need permission from the taxpayers to move forward with that.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. No. 100%, one. Hundred percent. Nothing happens. The first year. The only way the total budget goes down is provided the number of students go down or inflation is down. So I would expect break even once again for the first year and in fact push down into the future. Can you? I'll be back tomorrow to ask, but can you comment now? I'd like to see it done better tomorrow, basically.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Yeah. So, great question. That was my initial thought as well. But if you look, if you look at the petition, though, the first thing that is a problem is

[R17116-91] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: inflation is down. So I would expect break even once again for the first year and in fact push down into the future. Can you? I'll be back tomorrow to ask, but can you comment now? I'd like to see it done better tomorrow, basically.
TEXT> Yeah. So,  great question. That was my  initial thought as well. But if you look, if you look at the petition,  though, the first thing that is a problem is the 2020 526 fiscal year for pupil cost. So the measurement year is this fiscal year, I've cut out about $5 million out of the current year operating budget. Okay. When you calculate the state has a specific form to calculate the per pupil cost, you start with what you've spent. So I'm I've looked at the  budget versus actuals that I've given to the school board, which estimate what  our spending is going to be through the end of the year. I'm using that as the expenditures. And there's pluses and minuses in that formula to come up with a perfect cost. Some of the minus R  transportation, tuition paid to other schools for special education services. And so what it does is it drives down artificially the pure per pupil cost. So we have an artificial artificially reduced amount mainly because I cut the budget. Now what I've said to other people as a strategy, if I were, if the school district didn't have a deficit in order to make what you're saying to be true, I would spend the  the operating budget to its max so that the that the  measurement period is, is is much higher.
NEXT> Matt Angell: And then the budget could be done. But the problem is, is that don't have the cash flow to do it. So I'm forced at a lower per pupil cost.

[R17116-92] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: a strategy, if I were, if the school district didn't have a deficit in order to make what you're saying to be true, I would spend the the operating budget to its max so that the that the measurement period is, is is much higher.
TEXT> And then the budget could be done. But the problem is, is that don't have the cash flow to do it. So I'm forced at a lower  per pupil cost.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: So so I'll have to paraphrase to get it into my head I apologize, but so the budget that you used in the interpretation of this warrant of this word

[R17116-94] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: into my head I apologize, but so the budget that you used in the interpretation of this warrant of this word count was the operating budget, not the original budget that came out, which had to be taken. Did I get it right or wrong?
TEXT> No, you didn't get it right. If you. Did it. If you read the the  the warrant article, it specifically says their per pupil cost, the per pupil costs are actual costs and don't relate to budget.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Okay. That's what I need here.

[R17116-110] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — questions the proficiency projections and special-e | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: Okay. So the benefit that I had was there were very several. There were several very strong administrators to guide this program. Okay.
TEXT> Right. I just I think that's sort of what my thought is, is like, that's great. You had a lot of things in order and like ready to go. And what I see is a lot of teachers who have been torn, well, a lot of parents and students who have had a really tough year. And I'm not sure that we're maybe in the same place. That sounds.
NEXT> Matt Angell: So that your year because of me making so many cuts. Okay. Yeah. So I acknowledge that. Okay. And I do want to say that when I'm trying to propose

[R17116-111] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: and like ready to go. And what I see is a lot of teachers who have been torn, well, a lot of parents and students who have had a really tough year. And I'm not sure that we're maybe in the same place. That sounds.
TEXT> So that your year because of me making so many cuts. Okay. Yeah. So I acknowledge that. Okay. And I do want to say that when I'm trying to propose with these budgets right here is, is and also trying not to have a deficit for next year is to try to have more of a normal school year next year. And if we can, if we can make it so that, make the teaching more efficient and also try to  improve and work towards improving the skills of our teachers and try to get more student engagement and, and and so on. I think the school district will do a lot better, right? I think we just need to have some successes to show the public.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Yeah, well, I think that, you know, it looks like this year the administration within the school district separately have shuffled teachers where they're needed and realigned to sort of

[R17116-116] Wayne Hemingway | Public commenter, Ward 1 — parent and taxpayer (self-identified at the | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: don't see how we can Like do what we're like. I just want to see how we can't, like, propose the same thing for next year with some cuts in place to manage the balance. And if we take care of our special ed problems.
TEXT> We've. Hemingway for one. We'll talk to you as a, as a parent and a taxpayer. Claremont. And that's that's wrong. We keep that. So going over the budgets for the last couple of days, we want to stir crazy blind, looking at the the bussing, we got a total budget for bussing of $1,821,519, which is up 179,000 from last year. We have. 11 full time bus drivers, 11 full time bus drivers of the 1991, 1919. Anyway, it's it's like 1717. So  what are those? Well, actually for for people in that bus terminal are getting over $50,000 a year. One is a part time employee is getting $51,000 a year. Plus he's getting retirement pay of $7,000 a year. That's a little questionable. And what we also did is equipped $32,000 on vacant retirement pay for those five positions, which should probably be part time positions and no retirement pay. That's $32,000 that you go back into the budget for something else. Here's another little note. This is not related to 1500 students, which I think we're pretty close around there. There's 348.75 staff members. That's across the board. Everyone had teachers, parents, everyone that works out to a 5.1 ratio. One person of those 348 is is responsible for five students. I know I'm going to say, well, that doesn't mean the teachers I know exactly. I'm just saying as a general that's 5 to 1 ratio. That's high.
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: I think we should probably look at and I have nothing against the bus, the bus people or anyone here. We're looking at another $3 million after the $1.66 million

[R17116-120] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter — questions stipend transparency and outsourcing of b | 2026-01-20
PREV> Matt Angell: So two things. The first one is as you found five of the 14 positions that I removed out of option A, okay. The second thing is, I've been actively discussing with a couple of school members about going out to bid for transportation services.
TEXT> Thank you. I actually will, taught me everything more to. That's actually a real big thing. When you start to bleed, when you're financially struggling, why don't you go after the experts in the community? Jobs like bussing. We're not bussing words. You just outsource that. Have them handle all the busses and we we can stop budget. I'm sure there's other places in the school system that we just, we think like maintaining the buildings. We have to pay these people all this money. Why not look at some business that can maintain our buildings for a fixed cost? Now, the other thing I mentioned is that that building. I don't think it should. I think you need to sell that building. Make a laugh. I think you need to sell that building. You really need to start getting rid of these things off of budget. You know, I don't see the population of Claremont increasing with kids. So why why would we want to just keep these buildings? And that's all I actually do.
NEXT> Matt Angell: A quick answer about the Dow building. If we sell the Dow building, we'll have to part with a portion of the parking. And so it would push more parking

[R17116-123] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-01-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: diversity of outcomes. Whereas if you said conformity as your goal, that leaves me with more debt. So, you know, like the Army's be all you can be, it's not be as good as the average, you know. So if you can speak to that.
TEXT> Sorry. What were you talking about is the subgroup there should not be a large disparity in terms of growth in success for students. I was going to understand students on an IEP may have a deficit in a certain area, and maybe in that certain area they may not be as strong, but there should not be a big disparity in their academic growth over time between an ESL student, English as a second language student or as a student,  disabilities, other and things like that. And so they still have to grow. They may not be as proficient, but they still have to show growth at that rate. And so we need to equities the growth over time. And so making sure those subgroups are, you know, depending on what the category is, we're not having a disparity that we're selling that the students are not growing at the same rate as they're typically developing peers. And so that's why we need to make sure we are providing the staff to show growth across those subgroups of students. With that help.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: That helps. I think I'm going to have to read more. I wanted to again, question about the Warren article that's still up there. The longer sat there, the easier

[R17125-3] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mrs. Whitney. I'd like to ask Interim Superintendent Carrie Kennedy to introduce the administrative staff. Good morning.
TEXT> Good morning everyone. I don't think it's working very well, so I apologize.  So high end. Carrie Kelly, interim superintendent. I would like to introduce all of the staff that work in the administration. To my left is Matthew Angel, our business administrator. To his left is Noel Cronenberg, who is our district clerk for the school board. To her left is Jason Bonneville, our director of student Services. In the audience is Paige Jarvis, who is our director. Of it. In the audience is Page Jarvis or director of Student Services. Thank you. Also in the audience we have Melissa. Lewis. Principal of Disney Art elementary.  I also like to recognize they may not all be here. Some are waiting to see because of voters in space. Mark Blunt, who is the principal of Maple Avenue School. Dale, who is the principal of Claremont Middle School. Michael Harrington, who's the principal of Stephens High School. I know he was here.  Michelle Harrington, who's the director of the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center. And that's who we have for today. So he will pass back.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. I think we're having a problem with Mike, but I just want to remind everyone, I've just learned that you need to talk directly into the mic. Okay.

[R17125-14] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: you, Mr. Howard. Anyone wishing to speak against this article? Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the article, seeing none. I'm closing discussion. In the article will be forwarded to the ballot as presented. Article two the main budget. The moderator recognizes Candy Crawford.
TEXT> The average cost per pupil for the preceding year, as calculated in accordance with RSA 189. Colon 75 dot. I friends say it's 26 million. $26,012.84. Ela proficiency is 35% and proficiency 5%, science proficiency 29%. Shall the Claremont School District raise an appropriate as an operating budget? The amounts set forth on the budget posted with the warrant or  as amended by votes in the first session and second session, for the purposes set forth therein, totaling 42,000,957 zero $713. Should this article be defeated, the default budget shall be $44,449,704, which is the same as last year as last year's budget, with certain adjustments required by previous action of the Claremont School District or by law,  or the governing board body shall hold one special meeting in accordance with RSA 40, colon 13, sections ten and 16, to take up the issue of of a revised operating budget only the School board recommends this article.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mrs. Crawford. Thank you, Mrs. Crawford. There's been a little change, and I'm probably going to surprise the school board, but, we're going to go forward with your

[R17125-16] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Mrs. Crawford. There's been a little change, and I'm probably going to surprise the school board, but, we're going to go forward with your presentation as we address the articles. Now, Mrs. Crawford, as presenter of article two, do you wish to speak to the.
TEXT> Okay, so,  I'm Matt Angel.  So this slide here is for schools line grades. Under this model,  there will be one k two elementary school and 135 elementary school, one middle school and one high school. The proposed budget is $42,957,713, is a change of a negative of $221,851 from the prior year, and it's a reduction of 0.51%. The budget is $44,449,704. The dollar  change is $1,270,140. As an increase in the  percent change is 2.94%. So it's an increase achievement of students at all levels in a decreases gaps between subgroups, ensures compliance with required services. Maximizes resources such as time and personnel across the district. Provides a plan that identifies strengths and weaknesses around school reorganization. Provides for  appropriate staffing for all levels of instruction at tiers one, two, and three. Balanced classroom student numbers and reduces SA costs by $828,376. So the current tax rate, it's a total of $17.45, which represents $1.23 for state and $16.22 for local.  The revenues used for this estimate,  we  we estimated revenues to be flat as compared to the past tax rate setting, which is as follows. Local revenues at $4,815,880, and adequacy aid at $16,931,007. The total tax rate for the operating budget  being presented is estimated to be $17.27. The total tax rate for the operating budget sustainably.
NEXT> Matt Angell: $17.27. It's $1.23 for state and $16 or $0.04 for local. It's a 18 cent reduction from the current tax rate. The total tax rate for the default budget is

[R17125-18] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair (onset of her prepared st | 2026-02-07
PREV> Matt Angell: insurance, including eliminated positions, is an increase of $876,001.63. Health insurance is $1,053,360.60. School lunch $190,000. Saw services. The reduction of $828,375.77, mandated by law for special education, $148,240.50. One time Bluff Elementary School closure and non salary $161,350. The total default budget is $44,449,703.53.
TEXT> The financial crisis discovered in August, put a huge strain on the schools this year. We were not able to hire as many teachers as we needed. We had to close Bluff School. We. Had to defund athletics. We had to do  make do with a lot less. It is important to acknowledge the huge effort our teachers, students, parents and community have had to make to allow us to get through this year. We are very grateful to the staff who have had to cover many more duties than usual, and to students who had to be as flexible as classes changed. The Claremont community, in particular the Stevens Alumni Association, did amazing work in working together and coordinate payments for so many extracurricular and athletic events. The administration and board's finance committee spent many hours in November, December, and January developing a realistic, sensible, education oriented budget. Many discussions, cuts and changes in line items were made in the process at the January 21st school board meeting. The school board voted to approve 42,000,700. Excuse me. $957,714 for the 2627 proposed operating budget. This figure was based on funding for a four school model aligned by grades, with about $2 million in cuts from what had been presented two weeks prior. But in a surprise move, there was an additional requirement to find another 865,000 to cover athletics at the time.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I agreed with the $2 million in cuts, but I did not know where another 865,000 would could be found. Even though I support athletics. Therefore, I voted against adopting

[R17125-19] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: based on funding for a four school model aligned by grades, with about $2 million in cuts from what had been presented two weeks prior. But in a surprise move, there was an additional requirement to find another 865,000 to cover athletics at the time.
TEXT> I agreed with the $2 million in cuts, but I did not know where another 865,000 would could be found. Even though I  support athletics. Therefore, I voted against adopting this budget. That explains why the motion in your packet shows. The motion was voted on a 4 to 3 vote from the school board. During the next two weeks, I reviewed the budget and talked more with administration and board members to see where the money could be reallocated. Some requests for additional staff were withdrawn and some other program changes were suggested. Identifying these changes allows me to support this budget and recommend you do as well for the following reasons. It allows for all grades to be aligned by school. Students will be together by grade for their entire school experience. It makes for a better transition between grades five and six. It provides teachers at one grade level to work together in one building for better delivery of education. Our goal is to improve efficiency levels and this action helps do that. Additionally, it represents an overall lower  cost  to taxpayers. This budget is more than $200,000 less than last year's budget. Having said all that, it is imperative that we keep in mind that a budget is a plan that is put together with the best knowledge at the time.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It is not a fixed, unyielding document. While it is absolutely true that the bottom line approved is a fixed number. It is also true that various line items making

[R17125-20] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: overall lower cost to taxpayers. This budget is more than $200,000 less than last year's budget. Having said all that, it is imperative that we keep in mind that a budget is a plan that is put together with the best knowledge at the time.
TEXT> It is not a fixed, unyielding document. While it is absolutely true that the bottom line approved is a fixed number. It is also true that various line items making up that budget are subject to change. The budget that is created in January, voted in March and goes into effect in July will be impacted as the year goes on by one the end of the year balance on June 30th. Number two. Unknown expenses that come up in every school year. Examples could be maintenance, surprises and or  special education needs. For example, a new student moves into the district with specific additional required services. Number three staffing variations. Did all positions get filled? Are their resignations during the year? Do the needs change as we go through the year? It is very important to keep in mind that a excuse me, that a budget will be reviewed throughout the year to identify changes among line items to address current needs. Savings in all areas will try to be achieved so that the district can save wherever possible, so that by the end of the year, we have a balance with a positive number. Savings can then be applied to next year's budget and or  go into a much needed capital reserve fund. Future boards will make those determinations. Please vote yes on article two.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Miss Crawford. Do I have anyone wish to speak against the. Seeing? None. Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favor of this article? Same one. I

[R17125-38] Sonya Stephan | Voter, Ward 1 (self-identified; the moderator thanks 'Miss Stack') | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mr. Bass. Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of the article? Seeing none. Is there anyone that was used to speak against the article? I'm sorry. When you come forward to speaking to the mic. Hi.
TEXT> I'm Sonya Stephan. From. Ward one. My concern  is with. Locking ourself. In. To a certain. Amount. For the. 2728 period of time. I don't have a crystal ball. None of us do. And since we meet every year to discuss different things about budgets, I believe it would be prudent for us to see how the next year goes and then decide with how everything is going. I don't want anyone to go without, but I also don't want to overcome either, because that's where the problem comes in when you're overcompensating. But I don't want us to fall short as well. So the problem here is if we're deciding on something that's in the future, I think we should really be prudent and take a look at everything in the next year, and then decide what needs to be done for the future year to come, because I don't want our schools to fall short. But I also don't want to overcompensate because we don't. Just as the board has discussed up to this point, sometimes staff changes. Sometimes people leave. Sometimes they need more.  We might end up with more students. We might end up with less students. And I think it's very foolish for us to decide on something that's in the future, without seeing how the next year is going to go. I'm all done.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Miss Stack. Is there anyone that wishes to speak in favor of this article? Is there anyone that wishes to speak against this article? Seeing none, I will

[R17125-134] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: motion to reconsider award article means that the voters will not be allowed to go there to discuss. All signify by saying I. Please by saying nine nay. You guys can have it at the seven. The adoption of enrollment. The moderator recognizes candy can't.
TEXT> Article seven. Adopting open. Enrollment to. See if. The school district. Will vote to designate all. Of its schools as open enrollment schools pursuant to Rs. 89194-D. To allow. Nonresident six from outside. The school district to attend. Schools in the district in the. Amount. Not to exceed 10% of each. School's enrollment. And to limit the. Percentage of students residing. In. The school district. Who may attend open enrollment located outside. The. School district to 0%. The school board recommends this article.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Seeing you present me to speak to the.

[R17125-136] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Seeing you present me to speak to the.
TEXT> RSA 194 D sections three and four for annual meeting districts and Open Enrollment school must be established by a warrant article voted on by the school district. Because in last October, the New Hampshire Supreme Court ruled that unless a school district voted on how to manage open enrollment, the school district would be responsible for 80% of the costs of students going to another district. In addition, there is no cap on how many students could transfer into the school district. This means that without this proposed ward article, if a student chose to go to a school other than Claremont, the taxpayers would be responsible for paying 80% of the costs. This would reduce the amount of money available for our schools, and Claremont taxpayers would be paying to help fund a different town. For instance, if Claremont doesn't have this policy, it is roughly how the money would work if students wanted to transfer to another town. For example, the average cost per student in New Hampshire is $21,545. 80% of that cost is $17,236. If just six students were to leave Claremont, taxpayers would pay over $100,000 to another town. There is no way to plan ahead for these costs.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Additionally, if we did not have this article place, we could have an unknown number of students coming to our schools whether or not we had capacity for them. If

[R17125-140] Unidentified | Voter from the floor asking whether the 0% limit covers students the d | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mrs. Crawford. Is there anyone wishing to speak against this article? He's asking for clarification. You need to come to the podium to ask.
TEXT> The clarification. On this article.  It says 0% of students go outside in the district. Does that include sending kids to Granite Hill? Like, if the district sends people to Granite Hill, this would be only parents of the wish to send their students out. Okay. Thank you. For sending. Tommy. Just any word to.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Please come the podium.

[R17125-146] Unidentified | Voter from the floor, in favour of open enrollment (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Is there anyone who would like to speak against. It next? Okay. Are you speaking against this? All right. Speaking against. Right here.
TEXT> I'm speaking that we need to have open enrollment. Because that's how you make your school district better. Because it's a competition. Now, if you want your students to stay, you make it a better school. It's been a screw up mess that we've seen over the last year with all this money loss. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Can I ask you a point of order if you want to come to the podium?

[R17125-151] James O'Shaughnessy | District legal counsel, Drummond Woodsum | 2026-02-07
PREV> April Woodman: Therefore my question what is our ability to say no? What is the criteria?
TEXT> Under current law, there's no criteria for saying no. We're saying yes. So the administration gets the secretariat. I think the board would have to adopt the Policy Center criteria. There is no criteria now is open enrollment hasn't been adopted yet. That would be the next step is to decide what the criteria is. A lot of interests in New Hampshire have policies for nonresident students. That's a starting place for what the criteria can be, but there is currently no policy in place or no restrictions on who the board  will allow to come into the school for open enrollment.
NEXT> April Woodman: So I want to be very clear. As of right now, we do not have a criteria that says if you have a student, for whatever reason, that would cost

[R17125-153] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-07
PREV> April Woodman: of right now, we do not have a criteria that says if you have a student, for whatever reason, that would cost this district $250,000. We have no criteria to say no, I'm sorry, we don't have a spot for your child. Is that true?
TEXT> Is the spending district's responsibility. And so looking at the numbers of, you know, the 80% piece. And so  depending on the districts and what they're sending to us, they're saying to us in our money that we would have to assume,  as Claremont taxpayers would be because of that other costs that are associated with those students coming in and not just looking at the dollar figure. If we don't have the services in place to take that child, we still don't have the policy set to say, sorry, we don't provide those services currently now. So we would be looking at the board to create that policy as soon as possible if we were, in fact, to pass this article today and send it to the ballot.
NEXT> April Woodman: We don't have criteria to back it up. The decision making. Correct. That's what you recognize.

[R17125-156] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair (one answer shredded acro | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Just just yes, yes. Just a clarification.
TEXT> If if the child coming into our. District happens to be. A special. Education. Student with. Extra costs. Associated descending district is. The one that. Is responsible. For the cost, not the. Accepting district. Therefore, in your example, if it was a student that perhaps would cost $250,000 a year, chose. To come. To our district, the sending district would be responsible for those costs, not the district. Provided we have the services.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: To it. Can I interdict for a second, candy? Yes. Sorry. Clause not delineate who is responsible for the special ed costs between the sending receiving district. The amendment on

[R17125-158] Unidentified | Voter from the floor arguing against sending Claremont students out of | 2026-02-07
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: the Senate attempts to do that by saying the president district is responsible for special ed costs. That's not in the current law. So we don't have an answer here that I can certainly explain seasonally for folks on special ed from your escape plan.
TEXT> If we want Claremont to be better and stay here and fight for it. If instead you don't think for their muscles, you're going to get better. You don't want to see it get better and move. You have that right. But don't stay here. And it makes the taxpayers fun to you to send your kid to another district, so that that district gets all the benefits.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against Brian?

[R17125-163] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2026-02-07
PREV> Joe Carrier: if you don't feel this school can give you a kid a good education, you should be able to send it to another school. And that's what it's all about. The education for your child should be your up to you. All right. Thank you.
TEXT> Is the responsibility. Of. This of a descending district? Whatever. When when the special education student resides in the town, wherever they are assigned, it is the local school district that's responsible. For the costs. And that would apply in this instance. That was our understanding as we were  considering this article. It's it's not about the open enrollment  policy. It's the special education laws that are in place that would supersede the open enrollment consideration.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Okay. Anyone from. The school district, we should just speak for the cycle. Approach the podium, please.

[R17125-171] Unidentified | Voter from the floor restating the article's effect (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Question not about the bullshit or the amendment on the floor.
TEXT> I just wanted to make sure that, again, we simplify this because I think that answer was also not very clear. Yeah.  You are still, as a parent, able to stand here to another school. The difference here is that you are responsible for paying for that 0% is how much money incorrectly Claremont taxpayers are responsible for  when sending a student to another school district. Correct. Okay, so your kids are not maybe the Claremont School District if you do not want them to stay here. However, the taxpayers will not spend their money to send your kid to another school district.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That's absolutely correct. And just realize the amount of money that big the amount of money at any difference receiving a school district will be different too. So we wouldn't

[R17125-173] James O'Shaughnessy | District legal counsel, Drummond Woodsum | 2026-02-07
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So we wouldn't be on this planet or whatever the receiving tuition is in that school district. So that's just open yourself up to liability is more taxpayers have to be done because we would then have to pay what they asking for their tuition.
TEXT> Can I just address something I won't be responsive to one of the board members who, clarified the special ed costs when I'm sitting in this capacity and advising the body about what the literal law says with respect to home and rolling. And so what I told you is current open enrollment law doesn't say what happens with special ed. What we have advised the district is that in all likelihood, you will be responsible for the special interests of your resident districts attending schools outside Claremont, and certain that's what state position is. I'm certain that's what the position is, and that's likely what we need to be advising, and that's what we have already advise you. Those are your kids. You're the local education agency under the idea.  Those are going to be responsibilities unless we get a court order  stating otherwise. I just want to provide that clarification. Thank you. Okay.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak in favor. Moderator recognizes that.

[R17125-178] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking on open enrollment (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Unidentified: do you do it? It's the same time we've got more tax dollars as to what they're going to pay, because if you put them into special education, I as a taxpayer, to a lot of pay for it, I don't think anybody else does.
TEXT> So you've got to decide on it. You got free school over there. You can get to run this place. What are we going to do, folks? You're all the thinkers. We seem to come up with all these fancy ideas and everything. We don't follow through on them, and we don't ask the question as to who is going to support it. You see, the tax payers in this town, in the nation, between these school budgets, they grow up every year. I mean, we just. Open enrollment works great. If you take the student and see them down and see if there was a while, because we didn't have a few superintendents, we had the bathroom mirror, one never made of mistake. And here we are again doing the same thing. We've got to have students that are not going to put a person on the taxpayers of Claremont. And I do agree with him. That ought to be the people here, the mindset stay in this town. Anyway.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: A vote by the public here that allows you to squeak because you're not a resident. So come on, I know I'm to follow procedures. All right. In order for

[R17125-182] Unidentified | Voice from the floor (name not stated) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: You guys have it.
TEXT> I shoot it. I am the president. Of unity and also. One. Of the tax leaders that apparently we can't get.  I have a point of order. I just want to verify how does this policy of 42 students coming from school  school districts like unity, where they don't offer the high school services, that 10% apply in those situations? There is only from school districts that offer high school or the equivalent  services. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: That's a question for the board. Is anyone watching?

[R17125-184] James O'Shaughnessy | District legal counsel, Drummond Woodsum | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: That's a question for the board. Is anyone watching?
TEXT> This? Let's keep it simple. This doesn't apply to students that ten year through an agreement or other arrangement with the board. So this is only with respect to the open road program.
NEXT> Unidentified: 24.

[R17125-191] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Croydon (self-identified; House Ed | 2026-02-07
PREV> Hope Damon: pay to be covered. For those students in my. Explain this clearly as I would like to, but it is basically what is going to look at. And I'll tell you, I've been having a school budget or deliberative school meeting every day this week.
TEXT> Very different size communities and different  taxpayer burdens. And so far,  everyone has been very opposed to open a moment under the present, present state funding model. If you want to clarify that open and moment is to public schools, that it doesn't, no matter how many public does not send students to nonpublic schools, that's not part of this open enrollment. One of the differences between the article and the  proposed bill at the state House. Sorry. Really did lose it for a minute here. It pertains to what the payment amounts would be. So the state bill is 80% of the sending district's cost gets paid to the receiving district. This would be negotiated differently, but it doesn't specify transportation. So if you as a parent, simply don't have the wherewithal to get your child to a different school district, but in a world isn't going to read anything to you anyway, unless you can find a way to get the child there. And the state bill doesn't include transportation either. The state bill says the districts can limit the number of students that they receive based on capacity, but it doesn't define capacity. So that is very open to interpretation. It could be how many students in the classroom. It could be how many is the building able to hold? It could be.
NEXT> Hope Damon: Or excluding the AP classes that are full. And the student who wants to come needs AP classes. It's very vague about what capacity. I mean, it's not there. It

[R17125-194] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Croydon (self-identified; House Ed | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Representative gaming aircraft just wrapped up.
TEXT> Thank you. So. That cost us less for student than what open enrollment would cost. So depending on those agreements it could be quite different in what the cost side. I am very happy to answer questions and hear feedback from people. And I would note that three three other state reps  here today as well of your five straight reps. So please speak with all of us. House Bill 751 and I would very much encourage supporting Warren article, and I will be voting against open enrollment on the state level at this time. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Unidentified: For a question. For you have a question? Move. Can I ask a procedural question before you move this question? We have not about I just want to know what

[R17125-198] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (self-identifies at the podium as a Ward 2 voter)  | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: still unable to decide, we'll have standing himself. Vote. Although you take us by saying I. All those opposed signify by saying they may. Because you have, as you said. Under article eight. The adoption of a budget cap. The moderator recognizes. Price is right.
TEXT> Price for two. Early adoption. Of school district budget cap. For the six school district. 20. 26 I see you six. School district. Meeting petition. Warner. Show me adopt the provisions. Of. A 32 colon five e and implement a. Budget cap. Whereby the School Board or budget Committee shall not submit a recommended budget that is higher than the 20 2025 2026 fiscal year per pupil cost times the average daily membership in residents of the school district. As of October 1st of the year immediately preceding the proposed budget year, plus an annual increase for inflation using CPI, you for the Cambridge. Boston, Cambridge Newton, mass. New Hampshire area, published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as of January 1st. This requires a 3/5 majority of the school district. This has been submitted by the school board. Does not recommend this article. Is not. 25. Percent and. Six for not recommending one member of state. So yes. So we do not recommend this article.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Mister Sprague. Speak against the. Speaking in this article. Princeton. Princeton. The author. Frank. Thank you. Is there a primary sponsor petitioner of this petitioner? Please, please. You

[R17125-200] Emily Sandblade | Primary petitioner for Article 8, Ward 3 (uncertain - not self-identif | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Mister Sprague. Speak against the. Speaking in this article. Princeton. Princeton. The author. Frank. Thank you. Is there a primary sponsor petitioner of this petitioner? Please, please. You have ten minutes. Thank you.
TEXT> And school board to recommend. An annual school budget that is based on the spending or pupil in the fiscal year prior to the budget. Pleasant annual increase determined by the Consumer Price Index, which is often referred to as the inflation rate. So why should we pass us any cap? It's all about Claremont. It's an effective solution somewhat. Claremont uniquely serious problems. In 2016, the median household income in Claremont was just over $60,000 in 2020. For nine years later, the median household income had declined to $59,000. And that's not even a testing for inflation. That's a 2% decrease in actual numbers, is a considerably higher increase if you're looking at inflation or just for comparison, let's look at the pupil spending over the same period of time. In 2016, the Claremont pupil cost was $16,520. In 2024, it was $23,266, according to the state Department of Education. That's a 41% increase. And I think the problem here is pretty obvious. Household income in Claremont has. But the pure pupil costs have shot up faster than inflation. When we are household income actually declined by 25%. So who gets hard to hit hardest for this? The retirees you plan to age and in place suddenly crushed by 1000 to $3000 tax hikes they never realistically planned for renters whose rent increase faster than their income and are having trouble sitting in their homes.
NEXT> Emily Sandblade: Blue collar families who bought modest homes decades ago and now live in markets that they never asked for. Widows and widowers trying to survive on one income instead of

[R17125-201] Emily Sandblade | Primary petitioner for Article 8, Ward 3 (uncertain - not self-identif | 2026-02-07
PREV> Emily Sandblade: gets hard to hit hardest for this? The retirees you plan to age and in place suddenly crushed by 1000 to $3000 tax hikes they never realistically planned for renters whose rent increase faster than their income and are having trouble sitting in their homes.
TEXT> Blue collar families who bought modest homes decades ago and now live in markets that they never asked for. Widows and widowers trying to survive on one income instead of two. The force isn't pretty ugly choices. They can take on  the debt and old age just to pay taxes. They can sell the home that they raise or kitsune lead to a cheaper area, often far from family, friends and their support systems. Or they can cut back on food, heat, medicine or car reverse just to keep up with the tax burden. It's a slow, quiet depiction of the people who live in and Will Claremont, who worked hard and pay taxes consistently and reliably for decades. And what do they get in exchange? Did the schools improve with increasing levels of spending? No. The English language, math and science Fiction six have been dropping for years, and Claremont schools ranking around for trial of New Hampshire schools that, in spite of fact that Claremont spends more than the state average person pupil. The Claremont property tax rate is the second highest of all towns and cities in the state, and our schools receive more state aid per pupil than any other school system in New Hampshire. This is a change. This country is immoral in so many levels.
NEXT> Emily Sandblade: How does the spending capsule of this problem, if the school district wants to be spending beyond the rate of inflation, the voters have to pass the budget by 60%

[R17125-202] Emily Sandblade | Primary petitioner for Article 8, Ward 3 (uncertain - not self-identif | 2026-02-07
PREV> Emily Sandblade: Claremont property tax rate is the second highest of all towns and cities in the state, and our schools receive more state aid per pupil than any other school system in New Hampshire. This is a change. This country is immoral in so many levels.
TEXT> How does the spending capsule of this problem, if the school district wants to be spending beyond the rate of inflation, the voters have to pass the budget by 60% margin. That's actually a very manageable margin if the budget is honest. And what's your vision? Budgets in New Hampshire passed by 60% or more year after year. But the Claremont School District has a long history of mismanagement, and it's supposed to a child for the same. It takes a school to bankrupt a village really is long overdue. As citizens, we need to see more responsibility, more focus on for educational goals, more transparency and more community involvement. We must have sort of school board and the school districts employees to be good stewards of the public trust, financial. Financial due diligence must become a driving factor in the budget process, not an optional afterthought. My house clear that asked me nicely, probably isn't going to work, as spending provides a strong and timely incentive to do the right thing and to continue doing the right thing year after year. All I can say to that to all of us is trust, but verify.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Are you going to propose now?

[R17125-213] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mr. Sprague. Mr. angel, Mr. sweet.
TEXT> I calculated with her pupil cost with the peace of mind. That it. Provides to this award. So when I look at the information, what it is, it's a budget versus actual and, and it's, what I'm saying for expenditures through the end of the year. And that's how I cut the, the $9 million reduction that, board member spoke about. There's a state for that. This is what the full cost is. And because I got so much out of the budget just to get through this fiscal year that,  that created the $9 million reduction, it's going to be another double. And what's going to happen is if this passes, I'm going to be recommending a budget to the school board that includes these huge, huge price programs will not be the same. I'm going to be making recommendations such as closing the test center,  eliminating athletics, closing the two remaining elementary schools. Okay. It is going to be deep. All right. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. The microphone. Legal advisor. I'd like to clarify something for everyone.

[R17125-215] James O'Shaughnessy | District legal counsel, Drummond Woodsum | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. The microphone. Legal advisor. I'd like to clarify something for everyone.
TEXT> Pulling out the statue right now. I spoke about this at the hearing.  The the legal concern I want to bring to the community's attention is,  not with the concept itself. The statute allows the adoption of a budget cap.  The law in question is are, say 325 dash. The method of adoption is RSA 32 colon 5-F That law says that the wording of the question shall be and then it provides the wording of the question. So that's what we call the mandatory language.  There is a tiny bit of flexibility when you have mandated statutory language, but you don't have a lot of flexibility. The the law says that the form of the question is, shall we adopt the provisions of our, say, 32 polling five and implement a budget cap whereby school board or budget committee not submit a recommended budget as higher than. And this is the part where this petition is different than the law, higher than a blank dollars, and it literally has a line in the lower dollars per pupil cost. That's how the legislature drafted RSA 32 of five F since its adoption in September of 2025. I have been asked to advise me on this, and I have consistently stated that the way that it was drafted isn't helpful and doesn't make a lot of sense for most communities, because it doesn't leave you a lot of flexibility.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: For clarity with how you're supposed to petition for a budget cap. The way you've proposed is you're proposing that it be at a 25, 26 fiscal year per pupil

[R17125-235] James O'Shaughnessy | District legal counsel, Drummond Woodsum | 2026-02-07
PREV> Chris: monumental cusses, those discussed unnecessary angels. So my argument would actually be based on the point of order here that the entire warrant article has written is illegal, and does not actually follow the rules required for to put it on the ballot at all.
TEXT> The moderators asked me to response  to provide legal guidance on this.  As I stated grievously, the  form of the question in the petition Warren article has all of the prescribed linkage correct, except  with respect to the part  that  says the  2025 2026 fiscal year. The statute says it's supposed to say blank dollars in the statute literally leaves it like per pupil cost items. I mean cost  time, the amount. But there are two other places where this article, by design,  is amendable. One is by naming the particular index, there are different index indices that can be used. The other is by changing the name of the U.S.. Bureau of Labor Statistics, city or county. So with these articles, you can't amend the prescribed language. You can't amend it to change the subject matter, because no article can be amended to change the subject matter. But the limited body in every district of town has to make amendments, as long as they're not changing the subject matter. And that does mean changing the intent of the petitioners. Once you get here in front of this body, that intent is a first session and modification by the person. So in my view, the amendment is formal. It's definitely where you whether you want to adopt it or not and make further amendments to it. Okay. My second promotion.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: I have.

[R17125-237] Unidentified | Voter proposing the amendment to Article 8 to insert a per-pupil dolla | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: I have.
TEXT> Yes. I do. Not intend. To change the intent. This is still. About a budget cap, and I'm just changing it to make it more legal, actually, and putting a number for people. That would. Be still, but obviously make the board aware that we don't want to, You know, raise the budget over and over and over again type thing. So I make that the intent is still there. And I'm actually make it more legal by adding in the pupil cost. That would have been recommended. Thank you. So it would state now  shall not submit a recommended budget that is higher than a 500 per pupil cost times the average, and everything else is the same. So we are now putting a right to average about for people who want to make this cap actually make sense. We're getting into the cap. We don't want them to go to the cap. Right. All right. We want.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Yeah. She's going to continue to be in writing. She's. I'm going. To ask for any going to speak. In favor of the amendment. No.

[R17125-242] Luke Diamond | Voter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone who should speak against the amendment. Sorry.
TEXT> Luke Ward three.  Setting a dollar amount of 5000, just in case you didn't know, this is really an attempt to cut to cut the the article. It completely changes the intent. It's way above what we currently spend per pupil. And so I recommend that if you're here to pass a cap on school spending. You'll. Vote against the amendment proposed.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Any to speak for this amendment?

[R17125-254] Tracy Pope | Moderator (the approved 2/1/25 minutes spell her 'Tracey'; the Rules o | 2026-02-07
PREV> Multiple: No.
TEXT> I'm sorry. I have excellent. Stephen the student. Oh. I think you have a chair. All right.
NEXT> John Gavin: So I am heavily involved in both our fire and our musical theater programs at high school. And I'm also on a high honors workload, and I have very high

[R17125-255] John Gavin | Stevens High School student, Ward 3 (self-identified; a minor - the me | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: I'm sorry. I have excellent. Stephen the student. Oh. I think you have a chair. All right.
TEXT> So I am heavily involved in both our fire and our musical theater programs at high school. And I'm also on a high honors workload, and I have very high schools. I cannot see for the other schools, but I know, and I will say with my whole chest, this even high school is a shining example of what the people of Claremont have to stay and fight for. Moving is expensive. We considered it  I my house, but we can't. We have two of the greatest teachers I have ever met at school district  and Mrs. Gessner, leading the music and performing arts programs that have never failed to put on incredible shows for the people of Claremont, while also developing incredible student leaders in the process. Any variation of this budget cap would place not just the school arts programs, but all of the other extracurriculars like the Tech Center, which have all  guided countless students to successful futures at dire risk. So why? Why are we choosing to let these programs potentially lose funding and die along with our  along with any of our other programs? Defunding the extracurriculars of the district is unacceptable, and I call upon every citizen of Claremont to work together and not only vote accordingly, but keep pushing us. We get what we want. Thank you.
NEXT> John Gavin: The requires public schools to have which they refuse to fund. And the city has this funny way of pushing around money and not actually providing more, but just putting

[R17125-260] Richard | Voter, Ward 1 (self-identified by first name only) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. My name is Richard. And I'm an award winner, kind of one supporter of a budget cow. But I was thinking about thinking about the $50,000 Kaplan. That that gives me the heavy GPS with only guardrails. So, like, what if you want to go to $27,000 per student who are 29? How are we gonna what's to stop that? If it's if I understand it's 50,000 as it's written out. But, I'm. Also concerned about not only the school budget, but if there are going to be any property tax reassessments on my property, that would increase my, I guess, like, not a school budget, but the city budget of a property tax assessment if that happens in the next couple of years. So I just  I'm just going to come out against the this amendment as it is. And and that's all I've got to say. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you.

[R17125-262] Skinner | Voter, Ward 2 (self-identified; surname only) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you.
TEXT> Skinner for two I wanted to address a oh, look. Okay. Somebody  I wanted to address something really quick on an average April cost since 2009. We've had a decrease of 726. Students. Roughly just under 33%. That does. Make it. Seem like we're overspending, but really dropping like this is better said, it's going to affect that cost. I just wanted to put that out it. So it's just like we've lost 33% and families are growing with the use of me. We don't have families just by 6 or 7 kids anymore. So that. The 50,000 tax cap, the 50,000 tax cap, well, I don't. I'm not sure if it needs to be that high, but if you look at the moment, it's not out of the possibility. Yeah. Thank you.
NEXT> Tom Luther: For council more. One, my concern with. A substitution of a 50,000 per kid. Per year. I would offer this as a comparison with our law enforcement community. I propose

[R17125-263] Tom Luther | Voter, Ward 1 (not self-identified intelligibly; Frank Sprague later c | 2026-02-07
PREV> Skinner: by 6 or 7 kids anymore. So that. The 50,000 tax cap, the 50,000 tax cap, well, I don't. I'm not sure if it needs to be that high, but if you look at the moment, it's not out of the possibility. Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> For council more. One,  my concern with. A substitution of a 50,000 per kid. Per year. I would  offer this as a comparison with our law enforcement community. I propose a cap of 90 miles an hour on Broad Street. All in favor, say I see the cap.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, I'm sorry I said the campus is in generous and defeats the purpose. I agree with, you know, the unintended consequences. But we, again had no choice. We're working

[R17125-275] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking against the $50,000 per-pupil amendment  | 2026-02-07
PREV> Tracy Pope: The podium has.
TEXT> Line. Thank you for coming for this great day and great deliberation. I understand what the, 50,000  cap. The 50,000 cap. Understand what you're trying to do. I think that's a way too much from the average for Claremont to 27 to 26 000 people. And if you raise it up to 50,000, Virchow will spend it. It doesn't matter. That's what happened when we got all the Covid 19. These are  all the Covid 19. And they didn't go and give us any question that he spent at all $50,000 per student is just. And it's going to increase the CPI every year. So it's not it's not a stopgap is is a starting gap to to tax the taxpayers out of the city. Thank. The motion. For questions.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Okay. Just point of if you're going to make a motion would you please put the podium and whoever said it please come to the podium taking a lot of

[R17125-289] Emily Sandblade | Primary petitioner for Article 8, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2026-02-07
PREV> Emily Sandblade: the voters control what happens in their government, not the government controlling what happens with the voters. It doesn't work that way. And if we really believe in our democratic form of government, which I do, you would see this as a really serious problem.
TEXT> Okay. I'll cover a few more points that were brought up.  One was that, There's a huge to of how much they spent this year and an. Email. That I got that was  from  Matt Angel to another person. I got a copy of it and it's in. And he said that the spending per capita per student was 35.7 million. Yeah. 7 million. I mean, what I'm sorry. The calculation is the wrong part. What they didn't tell you was that last year, the average daily attendance, it's called. A. Was 1496 students. That's how many people were attending regularly in Claremont schools. That doesn't count. The ones we sent out, out, out of district for whatever reason. But it does include everybody who's in district.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Your time is almost. Spread. I didn't see. Excuse me. I recognize I'm speaking in. It's against. Two.

[R17125-296] Unidentified | Voter from the floor on budget-cap overrides and the Stevens renovatio | 2026-02-07
PREV> Unidentified: But this was probably longer that you don't get any more. Can we take control of the meeting this time? Can we please take control this meeting? Anyway? Please attend. Get off me! Me and I refrigerator start to look like. Based on his low.
TEXT> It's going to be a real damage tax cut. Communities have real problems. They really override them. And what this does is really tell the voters that they don't trust you. I know it was trying to say it the other way, but they're acquiring you to actually deal what you need for your schools. It isn't 50%. It's £0.03. So they're trying to get you to, to to make your spending the way that you need to for your schools. You need to override this. You need to it's very difficult to override these caps.  So we're hamstring us ourselves. And I'd like to point out that the renovations for Stevens remember that we needed a 60%. We couldn't get it. We missed it by one vote for that. And we we lost out on a significant amount of money. That's how bad these caps are. That's how bad these overrides are. But the other point is that in line with the opening Roman, what's going to happen is you have your student leave. The funding is the same that goes out of district. That still counts. The student leaves your pupil. The money is so many. So as you lose your people, as you lose your students, you're losing the funding. The per pupil cost is still going to go up just to a point. But so these two things together. Unbelievable. You don't you really don't realize what's going to happen.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: I'm calling the question. This is a I know that, but they have announced that I'm going to call the question. All those who favorably signify by saying I opposed

[R17134-13] Matt Bean | Citizen commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified; ASR renders the name 'Matt | 2026-02-04
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Matt. Been Ward one. I'm here tonight with one objective. I'm here as a fierce advocate for Stevens Athletics. I saw what was put online, and I appreciate the sentiment. But with all due respect, I have some trust issues right now. The way sports was cut felt sneaky to me. None of it was mentioned at the public hearing. When I was there listening and then at the meeting, it just happened. It feels pretty frustrating. I would like to speak on the current model this year that we've made work for our sports, but I don't think it's sustainable long term, including next year. We need to return to traditional school funding model for sports as soon as possible. And as a taxpayer myself. In Claremont, this would provide a very small amount of tax relief. I would like to raise kids here. I have a house here, please. On the sports. I would now like to take some time to pay respect to the last ten years of action that the Stevens Athletics has brought us with a listing of the runners up in their championships. I was there on Sunday during football lifting, and I literally just looked at the banners and made a list.
NEXT> Matt Bean: 2023 Unified Track runner up 2023 bowling runner up 2024 bowling state champions 2025. This year with a with an unorthodox funding model. State champs undefeated 2022 unified track state

