[R9385-525] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Over there.
TEXT> So you see the number 524. So you see subtotal revenues 5,000,092 500. It's a pretty simple paper I think everybody should be able to follow along here.  You'll see that now you'll see the unassigned fund balance and miss 25 of five 2494. So essentially that's the combination of the 135 that was left from operations from the 171617 school year and the 388714 that we carried over from the prior year. Now, if you jump to the other, so what I've done is I put the 524 on here and just for conversation purposes, I put less fund balance to reduce taxes. 326,329 now some of you might say, wow, that's kind of an odd number. I wonder why you come up with that. Let's look at this page right here and I'll tell you where I came up with that one. So this other page is the revenues. This is the same page I gave out a budget time with the revenues on it. Everybody on this revenue page. There were some changes in revenues. That's why we update our revenues essentially when we do the year in reports for fund balance, obviously, and to look at other assumptions we made.  So line one tuition is up to 525. We've been quite successful at lowering the tuition and getting more kids to come from other districts, so that the tuition is actually gone up by lowering the cost earnings on investments.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Again, we've been really good. We have a lot of trust funds that are paying us really well as far as the earnings on investments go. So I bumped that

[R9385-530] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Frank.
TEXT> The cat aid. That's, on students who have extraordinary expenses associated.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: If they pay more than three and a half times the average cost per student, if we pay three and a half times or more, we get a certain percentage

[R9385-532] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: ten times, then we get 100% of it back, theoretically. But the state does is they do a calculation of what your entitlement is. Our entitlement for this year would have been 400,000, $400,001. They were agreed to give us the reduced amount of 277,500.
TEXT> So what is a student typical student? The costs of their programing have to be in a year to  to qualify their them for a.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: About 55,000. Before you start to get any.

[R9385-534] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: About 55,000. Before you start to get any.
TEXT> Age, that's when students are placed out.  It's not just.
NEXT> Unidentified: No.

[R9385-544] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Do you do we have.
TEXT> That discuss certain students at this time?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'm not saying. I'm just saying in general. Do you have students in that side of the barometer?

[R9385-545] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: That discuss certain students at this time?
TEXT> I'm not saying. I'm just saying in general. Do you have students in that side of the  barometer?
NEXT> Unidentified: We have students.

[R9385-546] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections and votes from several v | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I'm not saying. I'm just saying in general. Do you have students in that side of the barometer?
TEXT> We have students.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: We have students that could.

[R9385-547] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: We have students.
TEXT> We have students that could.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Have 150,000.

[R9385-549] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Have 150,000.
TEXT> We have students that could exceed ten times the average. Yes we do.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I guess an estimate of how many you think.

[R9385-553] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: We could we could bring that back from the first. That's one of the things you asked. You give us more information about sped.
TEXT> Mean if we can talk about it. There's two kids over the top of that, and there's 12 kids that are over three and a half times. So it's 14 kids all together.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And why do we only receive 66% when.

[R9385-591] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Version one.
TEXT> Essentially the same numbers are on the first page, but I want to. I want to go to the last page. And I want to I want to have a chance to do some more analysis on this, but I just wanted to go to cost per student for a second. Okay. So if you look at at the bottom of the page, essentially you start with an average daily membership, three lines up from the bottom with three. The third line that contains information, the elementary  was 812.42, middle and high was 3.02. High school was 530 .57. Total 172301. That compares to last year is a total increase. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Unidentified: Where are we?

[R9385-606] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Got it.
TEXT> So you'll see that the average daily membership numbers, obviously, that's a huge, has a huge impact on the cost per student. If you compare the average daily membership to last year we were down. We're down 9% in ADM. Last year was 17, 3866. If you look at our cost per student, we're up 2.02%.  So not a whole lot, not a large swing between the decrease in the number of students in the cost per student increase, because right now the cost per student is 16, 885, 33 for elementary, 15 305 80 for middle. In 177804 for high school.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Where are you at?

[R9385-617] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Okay.
TEXT> So and the reason we do that is because they can skew a number. Transportation in some districts is a lot less than transportation in other districts. That's why they take it out. Food service revenues, because it's a revenue source that's not being generated by the taxpayer. And the district placement costs basically because it could again, if you have three kids at $102,000, I could skew your total per student. Okay. So those all come out.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So I'd be remiss if I wasn't consistent and said this out loud. So our average cost per student is 16,842. What is the state belief that an adequate education

[R9385-618] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Food service revenues, because it's a revenue source that's not being generated by the taxpayer. And the district placement costs basically because it could again, if you have three kids at $102,000, I could skew your total per student. Okay. So those all come out.
TEXT> So I'd be remiss if I wasn't consistent and said this out loud. So our average cost per student is 16,842. What is the state belief that an adequate education cost a student in New Hampshire?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: 3000 $603,980.

[R9385-636] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; ASR 'Michael Neal' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: Okay, so so the cost of turning the lights on and making sure the buildings are warm in the winter, the cost of the teachers, the cost of administrators, support staff, the cost of maintenance staff, the cost of technology and transportation. Transportation is not.
TEXT> Transportation comes out at the end. But if you if you go to page seven, you can see just kind of the grid of where the how do we get on what the expenses are  between salaries, benefits, purchase services, supplies, property, other. Then we break it up between regular programs, special programs, patient programs, other instructional programs, student instructional staff, general administration.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9385-649] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: So we got.
TEXT> Broken down by student. It's costs 60,000.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's good. Cept the, I'm sorry I lost my work donation. We've got a donation, and we've got three grants we've got to accept.

[R9385-672] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: It's done.
TEXT> We've serviced the students. We are able to service within that time period. Now, the goal is for the person who is the project manager for that grant to once they get the project up and running, and they have some additional capacity within the course of their day,  they seek other grant sources to sustain that over time. There's never been the expectation for that particular grant anyway, for the district or the taxpayers to take on that burden once the time frame of  that grant runs out. So the first grant for this evening is the New Hampshire Intel Math Grant. It's through title two  funds and the Department of Education  and our award. Is  for. I thought it was on this letter, but I don't see it. I believe our award is for $100,000. There were two grants, two quality proposals requesting more than 200,000,  and our proposal was selected. With that, though, even though a portion of that budget goes directly to the training for teachers, there's also a portion of that budget that comes back to the SAR  as indirect costs. So those indirect costs pay for two things. They pay for the paperwork and processing part of a grant. The bookkeeping end of the grant. And they also pay for.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's extra revenue that comes in at the level to offset the budget. So you have seen at the meeting last Thursday, over time, the increase in grant indirect costs

[R9385-676] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: Malloy, and our business teacher at the high school, James Gala. They are willing to be mentors for these programs. And so, you there's a specified requirement of mentor to to participant ratios. And we didn't have the capacity to go beyond two programs yet.
TEXT> We also are working with First Robotics. And I've been in contact with the leads from New Hampshire, First Robotics  and  as well as folks from Red River Wheeling, the makerspace, River Valley Community College. And we're also reaching out to Hypothermia Dartmouth to try to find additional mentors, rogue robots who have presented here before who, are technically a four club. We've also been in contact with them,  and working with them to maintain and and reinvigorate, if that's a real word. High school level  program.  And so, next year, getting these off the ground, we hope to be able to expand the lower two  junior Lego League robotics goes all the way down to grade kindergarten, I believe. So ultimately, we'd like a feeder program for robotics. It fits with the Stem engineering. The Stem programing the board has talked about on many occasions that these two grants are small. The first is $1,250 for the elementary team, and that would be for all three elementaries. It's written as Bluff Elementary. Just because, Josh's children are in the Bluff School. We had to assign it to one by assigning it to one that allows us to apply for two more elementary grants in the future. If we assign the elementary wide this time, we wouldn't be able to apply for any additional grants in the future through this particular funding source. And then the middle school is a total of 2250.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So this is the seed money to get this started. This would be extracurricular activities. They would happen outside of the typical school day. And we like to get these

[R9385-725] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: All in favor? Do you have a question? Sorry.
TEXT> Oh.  Can I make a comment on one, please? Please. Okay. Student conduct. Middleton.  Let me go to,
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Page. Yes, sir.

[R9385-727] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Page. Yes, sir.
TEXT> Two student conduct the last two paragraphs. I'm sorry. The second and next to the last follow following the suspension of a special ed student. It sounds like it needs to have a placement meeting after a suspension. And then the next paragraph says if a special ed student suspensions in and out of school equal ten days on a cumulative basis, that's a manifestation meeting. So those kind of say that thing is there is there an evaluation after one day suspension? Do they form a team to look at a kid's IEP?
NEXT> Chris: You don't you don't have to. But I think we always recommend that you have a reentry meeting.

[R9385-734] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I don't I hear the word evaluation. To me, the evaluation is a much bigger process.
TEXT> There's a redundancy to those two. They I think they say the same thing. My other recommendation on this policy is that wherever it says principal, it should say or designee. Because it refers to kids being sent to the principal's office. And someone could say, I didn't get sent there.
NEXT> Chris: So should I say administrative designee.

[R9385-750] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Chris: Recommended.
TEXT> The special education students get suspended one.
NEXT> Unidentified: Day.

[R9385-771] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: For you.
TEXT> What? Sorry what? What I'm what I read when I see that is that there's going to be an informally, the staff will look at it and say, okay, the student was suspended today. Do we need to change anything or should they just come back and. And everything's okay as it is. That's that's the way I read. That is what I mean.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's pretty intrusive. I would feel comfortable if you say a special ed team may be following a suspension, an informal evaluation of the student's placement may take place.

[R9385-794] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Well. I'm sorry, man. What do you got?
TEXT> It's kind of a serious question. Like I was joking around about. It's this again, the student. You know how I ask for a cost per student and you explain some of it? This is. It looks like it's so for regular programs on page seven. It's, you know, it has a number under one and then employee benefits number two. So what would I divide those by.  Page seven.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh my version.

[R9385-796] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Oh my version.
TEXT> Because I can figure out that cost. I just don't know how many students are in district to divide it by. Is that makes sense. Or I could just email Mike and ask him actually for the specific cost per one student.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: That's what he.

[R9385-807] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: That to you? Could you?
TEXT> It's not just the total number. Divide by the number of students and find the average. Josh has an opportunity.
NEXT> Unidentified: To share more.

[R9385-820] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 (uncertain - speaks after LeClair says ' | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, I see it. Eight. 12.
TEXT> And I'm just. I'm trying. My best is. I'm not an expert either. But average daily membership is a combination of, like, attendance and how many students there are and all other stuff.  Okay. So that average daily membership is the number that they use to divide the total. So if you make up of the current expenditures at the top, divide it by that ADM number. And supposedly that should be that number.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9385-822] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> An average daily membership isn't necessarily equivalent to the total number of students we have in enrolled at any given time.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: That was my next question.

[R9385-825] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: So it.
TEXT> My understanding of average daily  membership is on Monday. We have 1753 kids with butts in seats, meaning they are present and in attendance on Tuesday. We have whatever number. On Wednesday we have whatever number that is averaged.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: To rise to.

[R9385-828] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Whatever.
TEXT> For the year.  And that  number of that average. Daily attendance is what is used in these calculations. So it's not just your strict enrollment number of I think we have 1801 students right now. Roughly in Claremont, it's not just that strict enrollment number divided by the total budget. There's there's other embedded formulas.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So I guess that's just what I want to know what the formula is. Just I'm just because I'm, I wonder for a while just what the formula is. How

[R9385-837] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So I guess that's kind of my thing. That's awesome information because why would Franklin be lower than us cost per pupil. I guess that's just what I'm trying to figure out. If I can't figure it out, then I will.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, looking at it, freedom pays 25000 per pupil.

[R9385-838] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So I guess that's kind of my thing. That's awesome information because why would Franklin be lower than us cost per pupil. I guess that's just what I'm trying to figure out. If I can't figure it out, then I will.
TEXT> Well, looking at it, freedom pays 25000 per pupil.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. And what's their breakdown like that? I just want to know the breakdown. That's it.

[R9385-840] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. And what's their breakdown like that? I just want to know the breakdown. That's it.
TEXT> I got six kids in there.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I have one more question to add to that. Daily attendance is are the special education out of districts added in that also?

[R9385-850] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: No.
TEXT> So I'd like to kind of have the same breakdown for a price. District as they would industry, because you're not showing us anything for other districts, children. Do you know what I'm saying? Which, yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's.

[R9385-854] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's r | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks.
TEXT> I can take all the out of district kids, add up their tuition and transportation, and divide by the number of kids that I can give you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: That one. Simple.

[R9385-859] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's r | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: To.
TEXT> See who manages the out of district kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay. Oh. All right. Nice job guys.

[R9386-279] Unidentified | Unidentified - short acknowledgements and voice-vote responses from se | 2017-10-12
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Last year's. Last year's council.
TEXT> The students.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: If you go to the next page. This is revenues. And I know that apportionment a lot for people to understand, especially at the first engine senior to look at

[R9386-451] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member); self-identified 'I'm Sarah Lowe, a c | 2017-10-12
PREV> Chris Irish: Three three. So we went from 0.25 up to .03 down correct. Right direction. Are we in agreement.
TEXT> Just so it's because it's based on percentage of students. Okay. And he he throws acronyms around like Ada is average or eight ATM average daily membership, which is the average of attendance attending. Correct. And then that gets broken down.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: And that's why on that on that sheet I put, I put some, some asterisks and I actually describe where they come from. If people want to research, the more

[R9386-528] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-10-12
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I know.
TEXT> You know,  it can be helpful to have that. But we might move that down to, you know, there's other places in the district where it isn't as mission critical. You know, certainly, students, we want to make sure the students have reliable equipment to use. But, there's just there's other there's other places we can move devices to, whether in a less of a mission critical position. They might be a replacement machine while we're repairing a device that's out, we'll keep that one. Hold on to it. Swap that one in and out. There's other there's other ways that we use the equipment. But just because we're replacing something that's five years old, if it's still got some life in it, we find ways to use it.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Within the administration.

[R9386-551] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board Vice Chair (Claremont member) | 2017-10-12
PREV> Chris Irish: Okay. I just and I got the guy right here in town. You should be going anywhere else if you're paying that kind of money.
TEXT> Josh, one more question. So I'm looking at professional development under tech. And it's 128. And then I come over to on the back page that we just were just looking at for technology. And then it says contracted services. Student information system I'm assuming that's Power School 3800 for that. And then trainings for technology use for JMT Blue Jays nine. So that's 128. Is that the same? 128?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yes it is. Okay. Count numbers the same as the description. Some reason in the system comes up as contracted services but it's PD.

[R9386-694] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-12
PREV> Mary Woodman: Know.
TEXT> Certain things are going to happen, child, or what have you. But, I think I agree with Brian. I think we're going to be in a better place now.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9386-701] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-10-12
PREV> Sara Lowe: that we want to continue to just make sure that we're sharing the good things that are happening at the school with the public. And I know, you know, it's hard to always get press to pick that up. But maybe the Patrick's new position.
TEXT> There was actually a meeting. Today with the students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Will be an organization called the Communications Club.

[R9386-708] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-12
PREV> Mary Woodman: Oh, nice.
TEXT> Fantastic. Okay, well, kind of. Do you want to repeat that so people. Sure, I can repeat that. Right. So there was a meeting today and there's going to be a student club that's, communications and media club. So they're going to do print internet, social media and social media and TV and video to share out what's happening in the district. I think that's great. And we had talked a little bit about having a potentially having a Facebook presence that was, say, you six posting but not allowing, you know, not having comments. I'm feeling hesitant. We started it with the Claremont School District and so far so good.  There was one time when one of the comments could have been perceived a little bit more negatively, and other posters, Addressed it. Okay. And, and so we've had the Facebook page live for the Claremont School District now for almost a year, I believe. And that was the only thing remotely close to an issue.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I feel like there's many more pictures and much more information going up as of late, which I think is phenomenal. I don't know if that's an actual statement, but

[R9386-710] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member); self-identified 'I'm Sarah Lowe, a c | 2017-10-12
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: much more information going up as of late, which I think is phenomenal. I don't know if that's an actual statement, but to me, it seems like there's way more information coming out now than there was six months ago. So that's kind of cool.
TEXT> And we may I mean, and I think a piece of it being a unity person  a lot, I feel like a lot of things happen  at the high school level and the, the tech center that we don't  necessarily hear about unless your kids are involved in it. And I think that for us, and I'm speaking broadly, I'm not I don't speak for everyone. But I think as a parent, when you're starting to get to the place of thinking about unity, has school of choice for high school where you might send your kids, where your what you're thinking about. The more information that's available for the parents of younger children, the better that is. Yeah, absolutely. So, I mean,  I don't necessarily know much of any. I know a lot of what's going on at Cal Mountain because I work there. So I'm there and I see it. I don't know what's happening here, and I don't necessarily know what's happening in Newport. So I,  I wonder how if there's already the Claremont page, how we better share that with  unity families. Or we could rename it essentially the same page, you know,
NEXT> Chris Irish: That's a good idea.

[R9386-736] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-12
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: However, I will get that information for you. Thank you. And we'll go forward.
TEXT> With making. That context.  So it's starting as a trial of seven weeks. The the club is at the high schools. And I believe it will be tied into some of the flex time at the high school. And then it depending on how the first seven weeks  go, it will potentially expand from there. So it's, it's scheduled to meet once a week for seven weeks right now. So we can encourage it to flourish. I mean, you know, I think in this day and age that those pieces, that communication piece and also having kids who are interested in that is huge.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: One of our sister districts up, up the river a bit has a full time employee who does that. And they're smaller than we are. Not that I'm rubbing it

[R9386-756] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member); self-identified 'I'm Sarah Lowe, a c | 2017-10-12
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: A community. Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> And then our PTA has a closed one that's just PTA members, because that gets, you know, challenging. But and you need someone who's administering it because you need someone who's sort of making sure that pictures that are posted and whatnot are not of a child who's not supposed to have their picture up there or, you know, those kinds of things.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Okay.

[R9386-760] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member); self-identified 'I'm Sarah Lowe, a c | 2017-10-12
PREV> Mary Woodman: Well.
TEXT> We we certainly have a high percentage of kids or not. I don't want to say it like that, but there's a lot of kids in foster care and different things that need to be, okay. Is that really the end future?
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Yes. Did. Wow.

[R9406-11] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Good evening.
TEXT> I have a few reports from school and Mr.  Stevens, so I'll start with the Bluff Elementary School report.  Last Thursday was the story night at bluff. Many parents and students enjoyed this event, along with a spaghetti dinner that was also included. The students were dressed up for Halloween and had a great time. Dessert elementary schools report dessert elementary would like to thank the desired PTA, the title one department and chef. Liam. Liam. Yeah. Oh my goodness, I'm so sorry Liam Piazzi for making this spooky story night a success. The staff and students had enjoyed their first themed day of the year last. Last Friday, October 27th. This day's theme was Fall fun. Fall was all over. Dessert. Elementary science experiments like exploding pumpkins and apples were such a great opportunity for students to see things happen outside the school's walls. I wish we blew up pumpkins and apples outside. We didn't do that last week. Dessert elementary school staff are excited to meet with parents and guardians next week to discuss the progress their students are making. Please call the dessert office if you would like to and have not already scheduled your conference with your child's teacher. Write a lot of stuff from Stevens this week.
NEXT> Lexi: Open house was Thursday, October 19th during the school day. This event went very well and many parents enjoyed sitting in on classes with their student. This week, a spirit

[R9406-15] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: completed, we will have time to admire each other's bridges before the load test destruction. So pretty much what we're going to do, we're going to construct this bridge and it has to be 12in long and it cannot be any higher than four feet.
TEXT> So this bridge has to wait, has to weigh very little, but also has to have the ratio components with,  if it can hold a certain amount of poundage and if it can hold a certain amount of poundage considered successful.  So we'll build this bridge and then Mr. Pope and Mr. Usher will rig it up to this machine, and a certain amount of weight will be put on each time. And if it breaks under a certain amount of pressure, then we're all going to pass, obviously. But,  it's a pretty fun time. Our bridges will break no matter what, sadly. As we build our bridges, we will continue to learn the engineering terminology for the various components of bridges. We will learn how to determine the reactions and support points, and calculate forces in each member of a trust. This is a real engineering project that college students will be required to do in the schools of Mechanical and Civil Engineering. I will keep you posted on our progress. The Honors World History students are creating a comic book of the Iliad and evaluating what the Greeks valued in their culture. Miss Sandra Hardin, who teaches English at Stephens, would like me to relay a message to you.
NEXT> Lexi: She says, I just wanted to thank you so much for letting us carve pumpkins this year. We had such a fun time in class, and it was really nice

[R9406-16] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: keep you posted on our progress. The Honors World History students are creating a comic book of the Iliad and evaluating what the Greeks valued in their culture. Miss Sandra Hardin, who teaches English at Stephens, would like me to relay a message to you.
TEXT> She says, I just wanted to thank you so much for letting us carve pumpkins this year. We had such a fun time in class, and it was really nice to see everyone happy, working together, helping each other, and acting like kids in the good way. It was great because there were some students who couldn't provide their own, and the other students brought in extras so that everyone would have one. Such a great classroom bonding moment today. And she added a smiley face, but I couldn't, you know, say that,  here is the Academic Resource Center referral update. To date, we have 369 referrals for quarter one. For various reasons. We had an 86% attendance rate for the late start last Friday, October 27th, which we feel is a very respectable number in which we will continue to improve upon. Last Friday, which was October 27th, the Stevens High School Marching Band had an awesome time hosting the regional high school marching band for a pizza party, and both bands dressed up. Did a great job performing their field shows at half time. During the Senior Night Football game last Saturday, October 28th, the Stevens High School Band and Flag squad traveled to UMass Amherst to participate in the 33rd annual UMass Band Day.
NEXT> Lexi: With thousands of other students musicians from across New England. They rehearsed all morning, watched a collegiate football game, and performed during halftime with the UMass Minutemen marching band. After

[R9406-17] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: bands dressed up. Did a great job performing their field shows at half time. During the Senior Night Football game last Saturday, October 28th, the Stevens High School Band and Flag squad traveled to UMass Amherst to participate in the 33rd annual UMass Band Day.
TEXT> With thousands of other students musicians from across New England. They rehearsed all morning, watched a collegiate football game, and performed during halftime with the UMass Minutemen marching band. After the game, we stayed to watch the UMass Minutemen marching Band performed their halftime show Thursday, which is tomorrow.  November 2nd. Nine Stevens High School Choir students, including myself, will travel with miss K to Plymouth State University for the All New England Choral Festival to perform in a mass choir accompanied by a professional orchestra. Tuesday, November 14th nine student members of the Stevens Honors Choir will travel with Miss Kay to Dartmouth College to rehearse for the day and perform in the evening concert with the Handle Society at Dartmouth. This performance is accompanied by their orchestra and tickets are available for the public to purchase. I'm included in that also. Saturday, November 18th is All-State auditions. All-State auditions is where we get pieces of music and we rehearse them and learn them by heart. Where we're singing to them, we're seeing them to ourselves. In the car pretty much is what I did today on the way here,  where it's two ensembles that we rehearse, that we rehearse for choir and band.  Whichever one we are chosen for  were put up into a panel of judges for sight reading and rhythm testing.
NEXT> Lexi: And we also have an entire Italian opera to learn. And a aria. Wow. So which is a chorale, you know. So it's pretty intense. We've been working on it

[R9406-18] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: pretty much is what I did today on the way here, where it's two ensembles that we rehearse, that we rehearse for choir and band. Whichever one we are chosen for were put up into a panel of judges for sight reading and rhythm testing.
TEXT> And we also have an entire Italian  opera to learn. And a aria. Wow. So  which is a chorale, you know.  So it's pretty intense. We've been working on it for a while, so hopefully auditions go well on November 18th. Monday, November 20th, three Stevens High School band students were selected to travel with miss K to Plymouth State University for the All New England Band Festival. They will rehearse an advanced musical setting under guest conductors for the day, followed by an evening performance this evening. High school music program. Will Hurst will host their winter concert on Thursday, December 7th at 7 p.m.. Miss K will host a brief director's talk about the program at 645. This concert is free to the public. Please mark it on your calendars now and attend to support our continually, continually growing program. The tri m Music Honor Society has plans of visiting the preschool in December. National Honor Society is planning and organizing our talent show, the S factor. So instead of the X factor, we chose to do the S factor because we thought it was cute.  This will be held on December 1st in the Stevens High School auditorium at 7:00.
NEXT> Lexi: Admission is $5 at the door. All proceeds go towards both the high school, National Honor Society and the Fine Arts Department. Come see the wonderful talents the students will

[R9406-19] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Lexi: Society is planning and organizing our talent show, the S factor. So instead of the X factor, we chose to do the S factor because we thought it was cute. This will be held on December 1st in the Stevens High School auditorium at 7:00.
TEXT> Admission is $5 at the door. All proceeds go towards both the high school, National Honor Society and the Fine Arts Department. Come see the wonderful talents the students will see the students have. Here's a sports update. The varsity football won against Fall Mountain Regional High School with a score of 48 to 7 on Saturday, October 21st. This Saturday, November 4th at Somersworth High School is their first playoff game. Good luck boys and girls. Girls JV soccer won against Sunup High School with a score of 1 to 0 on Thursday, October 19th. Boys JV soccer also won against Dundee High School on Thursday, October 19th with a score of 3 to 2. The Claremont Middle School football team won their game on October 27th against Cardigan Mountain High School, not high school cardigan Mountain Middle School, with a score of 24 to 14. Boys varsity soccer won against White Mountain Regional High School on October 27th with a score of 3 to 2, and will be going on to play offs also. Congratulations to every athlete on their wins. This was an amazing fall sports season.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Yep.

[R9406-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: goals are very, very important. And one of the outcomes of this professional learning, university will be staff having a common language, a shared language, as well as a unified understanding so we can move forward together as a district over the next several years.
TEXT> And  this year,  on October 27th, was the first of five professional growth days. It was remarkable to see in the morning, as well as the afternoon, a combined total of 300 of our teachers and paraprofessionals participating side by side. If you go on to our saw six website, you can see photographs  of this professional learning. Of all the types of professional development that occur, I can tell you from firsthand experience, when professional development is geared toward the needs of our practitioners who are allowed to work with each other toward a guided purpose that have a direct impact on what they do for a living. It makes a tremendous,  tremendous difference. And I'm very pleased that the  professionals are dedicated. Paraprofessionals who work alongside the teachers, and students are a part of that. So the playing field with level and 300 professionals  worked in morning and in the afternoon, and I look forward to continuing   discussing about this and the importance. And in your packet is the overview of the Claremont School District Professional Growth Days for fiscal year 1718. And you can see the five sessions and the intent of that. This is going to be a year process, by the way,  as we invest in our faculty and move forward as a district. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Open it up for citizens comments. For citizens comments. It will close for the six comments and we'll move to school board vacancy. So we have four candidates.

[R9406-41] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I had you back.
TEXT> It's really it's really nice for me to intermittently make mistakes, to show all the students who I'm sure are watching tonight.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That.

[R9406-58] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Great.
TEXT> Welcome. I'm great. I'm ready to go. Do you have a opening statement?  Sure. Absolutely. My name is Jason. Ben, where?  I've lived in Claremont now for about 18 years. I live in the same house I've lived in for the last 18 years in Ward one in the Bluff district. I have a wife and two children, both of which go to. Not my wife, of course, but my two children go to the Bluff School. Their one's in fourth grade, one's in kindergarten. And so at this point in time,  I see myself as being very invested in what happens at the school level.  Both as a taxpayer and as somebody who has children coming up through the school. So  to me, being somebody who is educated, I have a degree from the University of New Hampshire in biology, and I've educated myself throughout the years, ever since I got out of college. I always continue to educate myself. My place a strong value on education.  And anybody who knows me would probably say that  I'm not the kind of guy who sits on the sidelines and watches things happen. So I thought a couple of years back, now I think it's time to get involved because there's so many people who like to sit around and complain and have ideas, but they never actually do anything about it.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So I thought, that's what I need to do. And I'd like to help make the Claremont schools a place where my children, when asked from other people, when they're

[R9406-59] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Jason Benware: the sidelines and watches things happen. So I thought a couple of years back, now I think it's time to get involved because there's so many people who like to sit around and complain and have ideas, but they never actually do anything about it.
TEXT> So I thought, that's what I need to do. And I'd like to help make the Claremont schools  a place where my children, when asked from other people, when they're in another town, where are you from? They can proudly say, I'm from Claremont. I go to the Claremont schools, I go to Stevens, and they can say that and not feel any stigma that I think sometimes over the years people have felt. But I think now the district is going in the right direction, and I and I'd like to be part of that. That's my statement.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9406-67] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Jason. If you could create the job description for school board member, what would be the three most important items?
TEXT> First would be understanding and value on education. Second would be. The word I would like to use is concern and care for for kids. And the third would be. Fiscal responsibility. Those are the three characteristics I think a good school board member should have.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.

[R9406-92] Jason Benware | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID; ASR 'J | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So what would you do as a school board member to strengthen the parental involvement in the Claremont School District?
TEXT> That's an interesting question. The district we live in is somewhat challenged in that we have a very diverse demographic here. And there are especially in the area that I live, there are a lot of, I would say uninvolved parents for, for many reasons. Socioeconomic being one of them.  We live the Bluff District especially, you know, we have we have a fair amount of, transient people coming and going. It makes it difficult. We have a lot of single families where where one parent works a lot, perhaps, and it's very difficult to be involved. But I think, you know, I see at the bluff especially, I see a lot of,  like Spooky Story Night, for instance, where they offer up food and they get people to, to show up and do these activities with their children. And I really think in a town like Claremont, I think that it's really important to do those types of activities where you can draw people out and and encourage it, because I don't think a lot of people are just going to seek out activity and involvement. But if you if you kind of bring people in with something that's appealing to them to begin with, then you can probably tap into that and get them to be more involved.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I the just putting out handouts and the kids lunchboxes or sending it in a in their backpacks or putting it out on a website. I don't think that's what

[R9406-116] George | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy; former Claremon | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: If you could create a job description for a school board member, what would be your three most important things to include in that description?
TEXT> Integrity. You've got to be open and honest with, with everyone you deal with your taxpayers. You've got to be able to take the criticism, but you've got to be able to defend your position, and do it openly and honestly. Secondly, I think you've got to be dedicated. You've got to really believe that you're going to make a difference and that you can make a difference. And third, you've got to remember that the real reason any of you are here, any of us here, is the students. So they've got to come first. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're welcome.

[R9406-130] George | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy; former Claremon | 2017-11-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: What do you what do you believe be the most pressing problems facing the Claremont School District today?
TEXT> That's a good question. If you take the economics out of it, which is always the primary issue.  Probably. Making sure that we're preparing today's students for tomorrow's jobs and tomorrow's, skill sets. I think most people today believe strongly that if you don't go to college, you're in trouble. That's we've got to recognize the fact that there are a number of students who are just  I'm not a college graduate yet. I can proudly say I've I've come quite away with just a high school diploma in common sense. But I think that's the real goal is to prepare them for what's coming up. Technology wise, they've got to be in the forefront. I mean, there's no way you're going to get around it. That's something they've got to understand no matter what. Even if you go into manufacturing, you know, you've got CNC and you've got to have your computer skills and but that's, that's the key. Get them ready for what's ahead, because what's ahead is what they've got to look forward to. You know, that's where they're going to be living.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R9406-144] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Very much. Thank you. Let him in. Nate? Nate, you. Want me to keep him out? Lock him out.
TEXT> This looks vaguely familiar. Hello, everybody. I'm doctor Alex Herzog. I go by Alex, and  I'm glad to be here today to talk to you about vacancy on the board. So I have a little opening statement. I can read quickly, if that's okay with you folks. And then we can get right into questions. So a little bit about me. We lived here for a little bit more than a year now, moved here last year in July, and I worked at River Valley Community College there. And when they just did some downsizing. I know, Frank, you talked about it last Wednesday. Sometimes you got a right size and I was part of that downsizing.  So now at Concord Community College, Nht I working down there. So I do commute out of the area for work. However, I'm heavily invested  in Claremont. We live here in town, we own a house, and I've got two great kids in the school system and  you know it. Completely transparent. My wife works at Maple Ave  as I don't know what you would call it, Mr. Cherry.
NEXT> Unidentified: A.

[R9406-159] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Things.
TEXT> Job description wise for a board member. I think a couple of things I would think of. A board member needs to be able to listen to students in particular, to staff, to faculty, to the constituents in our community  and our administration. They have some seriously good experiences all the way around and kind of take those pieces and bring back. So number one job characteristic would be a good listener, right? Number two, somebody who is active in the community, somebody who is not sitting on the sidelines but wants to get engaged, not afraid to come in and and be involved. And third, to speak up when something's not right. I think that's the power given to the board. I think they need to be able to say, hey, I'm not sure this is the direction we want to go and hold the administration accountable if we don't see what we like in response to what teachers or students are doing, we need to be able to bring that up and have that discussion.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.

[R9406-165] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Good. Thank you. Thanks for coming. What would you. As a school board member do to strengthen the parent involvement in our community?
TEXT> As a school board member, how do I strengthen the parent involvement? Is that the question, Michelle? So I think one of the jobs of the school board is to support the parent teacher organization, the PTO.  However, we can do that. I know we've said, how many movies have we sat through together, Brian at  Maple Ave, and that's a great way to support, to show that we are there involved with the activities and reading night and things like that, as well as I, you know, I do have two very active kids. So when I think about what we as board members to do, we need to be involved. We need to be there. There's a phrase for the master student that's called be here Now. If you're here now, be here now and be involved now. If you choose to take the seat and sit there, then I think you need to be involved with all aspects of what we're trying to do as a board.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Thank you.

[R9406-168] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Alex. What do you believe are the most pressing problems facing the Claremont School District at this time?
TEXT> I think there's I want to stay focused on the positive. I think we're doing some good things here. Right? I like to see. I really enjoy my son's first year in high school, taking a look at how different it is. And when I was in high school, it's it's not an open campus like a Hanover High school, but it's moving towards a direction where students are a lot more flexibility  and ability to kind of work their schedules together. I think there's some good things that are very high level for some kids that want to overcharge. I wouldn't say over cheap, sorry, I said that that want to achieve more in life. And then we're looking at other opportunities for students at sugar River tech. That's also an opportunity for a student that wants to achieve more in life. I mean, there's some great educational opportunities here. So, Frank, say your question again. I kind of.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Problems facing. Okay.

[R9406-170] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Problems facing. Okay.
TEXT> So when I first came last year and interviewed, I thought, you know, truancy because I do see a lot of kids over at Cumberland Farms and I maybe I don't quite know the full policies on that, but I think one of the initiatives tonight is bullying. I do think there's some discipline problems, but I know that's being addressed in many ways through the administration's  letter out to everybody talking about what can we be doing differently. And that's listening to the community. I think building is a problem nationwide. We see bullying in the workplace. And where does it come from? Right. It starts at lower levels. So I do think that's being addressed. I like to see a higher graduation rate from the high school. I'd like to see I think what the state reported was about 75%. And I think it can be higher. And that's based on some data we saw with the state higher ed board here. So whatever we can do to kind of make those things happen. Well, my involvement in the board, when I was at RVC, one of the things we tried to do is facilitate that more. I think early college is a great opportunity for students.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: The running start and we do those down in Concord as well, and to continue to promote and make those things happen. So as well as things that we could

[R9406-195] Caitlin Kerr | Candidate for appointment to the school board vacancy (self-ID) | 2017-11-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: What do you believe to be the most pressing problems facing the Claremont School District at this time?
TEXT> I think probably the same things that are facing all school districts. Everybody is dealing with issues of bullying and exclusion, and I think that there is a,  obviously there are, you know, drug problems related to, you know, things that are happening outside of school. I mean, we just moved here over the summer, so I'm not totally super familiar with any specifics here. But I can only imagine that we're dealing with the same things everybody else is. And I think that we could probably. You know, the more we could do it, the most we can do is show that we're care and we're aware. And if we're involved in the students lives, they're less likely to fall off the tracks, you know? Thank you. Does that answer your.
NEXT> Unidentified: Question.

[R9406-266] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: The articles.
TEXT> And, It it's good information for people to have, I think, especially when you're talking about brain development. And, and I do occupational therapy. So I work with lots of kids. I have a pretty good understanding of it, but I think  it's always great to be  have a little refresher on that. That makes sense. And be reminded again. So thank you.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: Oh you're welcome.

[R9406-287] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Of.
TEXT> The brain research piece as an educator, as a school counselor, was very intriguing to me. In terms of the decisions students make. And I think it plays a huge role in the, the bullying discussion, as adolescence. And if we think about the developmental slide that came before, and especially early adolescence, so much is about that social development for our middle, middle school students and their that's where they are doing most of their work, certainly academic. And the challenges that you guys read about, and I have to say, the fact that so many of you had the time to read, it's a fair amount of reading that we threw at you. I was a school board member for at least eight years in the neighboring town, and I know  that you have a lot on your plate at this time of year. So. So thank you for that. But from the brain development piece, one of the things that that  I talk a lot with the students about as I'm processing any kind of discipline and specifically bullying,  is that they're kind of having all of these, all of these sensory things fired at them. They're having the stimuli come in. They're having something happen.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: Their emotional brain is definitely the thing that's firing off right now. The fastest. And it's a ripe time for us to be spending the right kind of time on

[R9406-288] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Audra Buckland: I talk a lot with the students about as I'm processing any kind of discipline and specifically bullying, is that they're kind of having all of these, all of these sensory things fired at them. They're having the stimuli come in. They're having something happen.
TEXT> Their emotional brain is definitely the thing that's firing off right now. The fastest. And it's a ripe time for us to be spending the right kind of time on this topic, because what they're doing is laying important pathways for decision making in the future, and for the kind of people they're going to be. So when you think about that cognitive and moral development that is happening, that was in the articles where, you know, we're laying foundation for their moral character,  for emotions. This, this one, as a school counselor is especially intriguing to me. And in the current brain science that we have, I think as a society, as a people, in terms of our understanding of the brain,  long thought of emotion as something that happens and triggers a response.  But we really learn our emotions as much as we learn anything else, and helping students slow down what's happening to them and process it. When the frontal lobe of their brain is not developed to slow down on their own is a challenge. And it's also a really important opportunity, because if we can do that effectively, we're helping them lay down pathways that will help them make good decisions and have good responses and become  active and involved and caring citizens beyond school.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R9406-293] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Audra Buckland: state, is that 3% of students report bullying or three, 3%. Yeah, 3% of students report bullying and 2% of the students are actual bullying. So, and then we can switch it to the next one. Yeah. And we're going to talk. Okay. Go ahead.
TEXT> I just wanted to clarify on this. So so reporting these are kids saying I've been bullied with the blue purple. That's like the a survey that the kid where they're asked the question have you ever been bullied. Right. And the student says yes. As opposed to a documented bullying incident that has been processed by you folks? Right. And there's a big difference between that.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: Right. And there's even a big difference between the 2,021% and the 3%. So regardless, it's funny, I moved it back and forth thinking, where do I put it? Do

[R9406-314] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: these reports that we do get. So thank you for having us bullying. I think sometimes is an umbrella term. Let me give you an example. We actually did this presentation for teachers yesterday. And so we were able to tweak things after their feedback.
TEXT> And we came to this bullying. Is it an umbrella term? One of the teachers said,  oh my goodness. In class today, I knocked, I walked by a student's table and knocked the book in the in. The student said, you just believe me. So I mean, as we're talking, we're like, oh, they're bullying is used sort of as a catch all phrase for a lot of things. Now, we're not saying that we do not have bullying at the middle school. We know we do. And we'll explain in a few minutes what we what we're doing, both reactively and proactively. But I think it's really, like I said, used as a catch all for, for a lot of things. And so we listed some things there.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I would just like to agree with you 100,000,000%.

[R9406-319] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Question. So. Oh, yes. Sorry.
TEXT> That's okay. Do you plan on talking to students about like, what is bullying? Am I jumping ahead.
NEXT> Unidentified: A little bit? Okay, I love it. I was just wondering.

[R9406-327] Unidentified | Unidentified - administers the oath of office to Herzog (identity not  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: there were 20 cases. 13 were found to be bullying. The other nine cases. Obviously came to a point where there was a suspicion of bullying. Or at some point, you, made the decision that it wasn't bullying at that point. What? What happens with.
TEXT> Those  kids?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: It might not fall in the bullying, however you're in, that it's already opened up that case. So I'm a little curious about what happens to those guys.

[R9406-333] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Over that piece. So.
TEXT> In the meantime, just to set the stage a little bit more, I would love to hear. So if, you know, if we think of this, this issue with the umbrella term and the fact that it gets in some ways overused, or we jump to the assumption, you know, we hear a behavior or  we see how I know as a parent, like my own children are feeling distressed. And then, you know, they you know, that they're worried about this relationship thing. And then you use the word bullying because that's in the media all the time, or because of this umbrella term. And that's, you know, what you call in and say is that there being bullying, there is a legal definition that we're going to get to. But I'd love to hear what people around this table understand as the necessary things for it to to elevate to the level of voting.  What does what is bullying?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I have one, it doesn't comply with the law, but to me, bullying from my experiences has been a pattern that it's not an event, but it's a series of

[R9406-334] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Audra Buckland: that there being bullying, there is a legal definition that we're going to get to. But I'd love to hear what people around this table understand as the necessary things for it to to elevate to the level of voting. What does what is bullying?
TEXT> I have one, it doesn't comply with the law, but to me, bullying from my experiences has been a pattern that it's not an event, but it's a series of events. But the problem with my definition, though, is that there have been students, female males, who have taken their lives because of a series of events that weren't addressed before. And so the New Hampshire definition once is once too many. So students, just you talked about a faculty member hitting a book by mistake. You bullied me at the single event. There's not a pattern. But that that doesn't that doesn't cut it with the current law. And so we comply with the law. But I expect to see a series of events, but not to sit back and let the events occur and then respond. So it's, it's it's very difficult. It's very difficult.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R9406-337] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: and there's there's certainly different radiations of things where the same words could be spoken, but how they're spoken, in what context they're spoken can cause a lot of emotional damage. And so there's a big difference in the intentionality and timing of what's said.
TEXT> I do believe it's one event, and I believe that because anything that deters a student's ability to or to pursue their educational pursuit, if it's a comment that you know your dress is too short, your dress is too long, and they don't want to go to the dance now, or they don't want to be active in school. It's just that one comment and I think that needs to be addressed. And now  it's all the problem at the lowest level and educate students, right? But I do think it's anything to deter their educational pursuit.
NEXT> Unidentified: Anybody else.

[R9406-340] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: So we'll show you two definitions. We have the New Hampshire definition. And then we'll show you the definition from the CDC.
TEXT> So and I'd like to just say that pattern and intent, as well as power, some kind of intent to get power or to misuse power are the three things that the CDC and nationally, they define bullying as. And almost every state across the country incorporates those into their definition except New Hampshire. So  I just want to put that I've worked on both sides of the river, and the laws are incredibly different on the two sides of the river. I think the important thing is the response and dealing with the behavior and educating, where, you know, I think the goal is to help kids become resilient, help kids live in a world where people are not always going to be kind to them, where they have to get up. One of the candidates, it might have been you, I think, actually said that, you know, you've got to be able to get up when you have a failure or in the face of something that some that some mishap in life or, or other thing and  get back on and go and that's that is what this gives us an opportunity to do. I think the importance of the legal definition for the state of New Hampshire is that, you know, we have an obligation for safety, for schools and for kids to feel safe being in school.  The.
NEXT> Unidentified: The CDC.

[R9406-342] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: The CDC.
TEXT> Know you can stay on this one. So it's a single significant incident, I think, for, you know, as I'm thinking my teeth into this role and, and doing some of this work, it is very clear that some things like cyberbullying  have the ability to do major harm with one single event, to reputation,  to what kids are saying around them constantly, how quickly it spreads from that one thing that somebody did  to, to something that is pretty damaging to them as a person. But so the so it can be one single or a pattern of incidents and it needs to meet one of these things. It can either physically harm a person or their property, cause emotional distress. And when I, I actually have this on a chalkboard in my office, and when kids come in and they're talking to me about a conflict, we walk through a lot of this and we talk, what is distress?
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And we define that. It's extreme anxiety, extreme fear, extreme emotional pain. That's distress. I mean, we need to be we need to be clear. Distress isn't. I'm sad today

[R9406-357] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Policy school board's policy.
TEXT> So just and this will just be brief but discipline what is the purpose of discipline. And for us our philosophy is that discipline is an opportunity to to teach. So if student if a student has done something wrong, we we take it very seriously that it's a teachable moment. It's it's an opportunity for us to help them through, to help them problem solve where they went wrong, an opportunity to make a plan with them and how that they're going to make the situation right. So we take that pretty seriously. There's that whole restorative justice piece, you know, if you've taken away from the school community, how will you give back to it?
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R9406-359] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> I want to go back to the emotional distress. And what is extreme, with all of the percentages, is  I think our climate here is different with a 49%, single parent ratio.  So I, you know, my concern is I,  I hear that, you know, what might be seen as emotional, not extreme emotional distress. That moment could be, as one might say, bubbling, something bubbling to the surface. Is that are there things in place for that? I guess my concern is I was bullied as a, as  a, as a child in school for being a special education student. And we were more segregated back then. So it was a more of a stick of.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9406-361] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Well, I think you bring up a really important point. And on the, on this, the handout multicolored CDC one, there's something that talks about who is at risk for bullying.  And, and the emotional distress piece is something I think about a lot because I've as I've worked through the definition with some students, and we talk about, you know, are you experiencing are you really. Anxious about coming to school? Are you more sad than usual and things like that? Kids  will be pretty honest. Well, I already have anxiety. And and so there are things that are predisposed. Right. But that still doesn't mean that that it's a it's a weird line that we walk, because if you look at some of the risk factors for being bullied, it's poor peer relationships, low self-esteem, perceived by peers as as different for some reason. And if those are  some things that are already your reality, and so you might react differently as well to, to some of the things that happen. So it's I think it goes back, though, to the importance of educating, to getting into inside the issue what is going on and how do we support. So, on that purpose of discipline related to bullying?
NEXT> Audra Buckland: We care about safety first. Safety planning, as you'll see in our protocol, is part of the process. So how do we make sure that as soon as we know

[R9406-362] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Audra Buckland: to, to some of the things that happen. So it's I think it goes back, though, to the importance of educating, to getting into inside the issue what is going on and how do we support. So, on that purpose of discipline related to bullying?
TEXT> We care about safety first. Safety planning, as you'll see in our protocol, is part of the process. So how do we make sure that as soon as we know a student is experiencing some kind of conflict, that we support their safety and ensure their safety, and then how do we support them to learn something from it, whether they're on the side of bullying or being bullied, there's something to be learned and gained to learn how to coexist and without as much conflict.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: So what?

[R9406-366] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - parent-handbook remarks lat | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: one on it. This is taken right from our, parent student handbook. And so that's something that you can take a look a look at. But it helps to determine conflict is the behavior of conflict. Is it rude behavior. Mean behavior. Is it bullying.
TEXT> How many parents do you think actually read the student handbook?
NEXT> Paul Gerald: Well, they sign they sign that they've read it. But on.

[R9406-370] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: I don't know. That would be a great that would be great data for us to collect. You know, have you.
TEXT> I think that's such an important question because, you know, as a fairly educated parent and somebody in education, I'm going to be honest and say at my kids schools, I did not read.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm just.

[R9406-378] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - parent-handbook remarks lat | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: been researching and preparing for this and actually before, before we even found out we were presenting, we had been, really focusing on other things we can do, with our kids and with our parents as well. So we'll get to that in a little.
TEXT> And I just want to say, I'm not blaming anybody about giving the student handbook out in my brain. I'm just wondering if there's ways we could brainstorm other ways to get the same information out to parents.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely, absolutely.

[R9406-384] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: So, so.
TEXT> One of the, one of the, you know,  one of the challenges, again, is helping. And that's where I ended up putting the the bullying law right on the chalkboard and eventually actually creating what is next in your packet, which is a, a Google form that we can walk through and that the counselors are now starting to also help walk through because a lot of student conflict comes through them. So we can walk through that with kids here who might have been involved, who might have seen it, start recording some information about what the conflict is that's going on.  And and also it addresses  some of the questions and or all of the questions in the law. So it walks right through the law and the questions that we ask students, about what they're experiencing with this conflict. I think more importantly is that this so it allows us to make a decision. Okay. Is this is this seeming like there could be a power imbalance and some of these other features? And if it is, if it's stacking up to seem like it could be those things, then it goes to the investigation. And that's a much more formal process of interviewing people who might be witnesses, sending out letters home,  letting parents know it all on the phone to parents to let them know an investigation is happening.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: So that's all that formal process. But it also, if we do this in response to every conflict that gets reported, if this is sort of the conflict intake form,

[R9406-385] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Audra Buckland: be those things, then it goes to the investigation. And that's a much more formal process of interviewing people who might be witnesses, sending out letters home, letting parents know it all on the phone to parents to let them know an investigation is happening.
TEXT> So that's all that formal process. But it also, if we do this in response to every conflict that gets reported, if this is sort of the conflict intake form, we start to get some data about our school in the nature of conflict and the nature of some of the issues or, or where the education needs to happen for kids. So back to the question of how are we helping kids understand what's bullying and what's not, and also how to help them respond to situations that might be happening. This is going to, I think, be really important information moving forward. We're in it's it's in its infancy.
NEXT> Unidentified: But let's see. I really.

[R9406-389] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School (first | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: And I loved.
TEXT> It, but sorry. At the end it says a copy of your responses will be emailed to a butler and your email address. So does each student's report say if I made a.
NEXT> Unidentified: Report.

[R9406-398] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> So is this student directed or do they come in and you use it as an intake.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: I it's I use it as an intake. Yeah. It's not student directed. It's I think I think developmentally middle school, especially early middle school students would have a hard

[R9406-399] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: So is this student directed or do they come in and you use it as an intake.
TEXT> I it's I use it as an intake. Yeah. It's not student directed. It's I think I think developmentally middle school, especially early middle school students would have a hard time navigating the form by themselves. Not not technologically, but just giving the right enough.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I also want to ask about the initiate within five days, and I know a lot of a lot of initiatives, a lot of things going on. Is that pretty

[R9406-401] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: I also want to ask about the initiate within five days, and I know a lot of a lot of initiatives, a lot of things going on. Is that pretty standard? Is that to me, that feels like a long time.
TEXT> So it does feel like a long time. So in New Hampshire, the law and this district's policy is 21 days to do an investigation. In Vermont, we had less than ten, but then we had two people designated. So to do them all the time. And I can tell you, like I'm doing this form with a lot of students, it's not all going to investigation, but it's time consuming.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But you do some interim mitigation that period of time, it isn't. You do you do some preventative things so there's no retaliation.

[R9406-408] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Fits all. Okay.
TEXT> So bear with me because I have couple of different things. So have you always kept a log of person per conflict per person.  Going back I know this is new as of this year. I've had complaints, and people concerned that their children  are getting bullied and it's not being heard or handled a way that they feel. So I guess my next question would be, the law states 21 days, that you're given for an investigation, and it shows that you guys, do a five day investigation. My question is, how soon are the parents notified? Is this is this a I'm kind of curious that parents immediately notified when it's an  accelerated or even if it's a small thing, what's the protocol.
NEXT> Unidentified: For that?

[R9406-416] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So if you can't reach the parent that day. Do you try to reach out with a letter home in a bag by the next day? My concern is, it seems like that there's a disconnected communication from parent to to school.
TEXT> I think the more concerning disconnect for me  is us not hearing about the issue in the first place. So I can only do this process. We can only do this process for when we know of a conflict. So there my concern is that there are conflicts and things that never come to us. And I you know, this is not unique to Claremont. This is any school I've ever worked in. Is that, you know, they're not going to do anything anyway, so I'm not going to report it. And then anybody, you know, the buzz that happens around the community around that about they don't do anything or or whatever that  that perpetuates that message means that kids are being let down in terms of having a solution because they're not being encouraged to talk to us.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R9406-418] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> And and again thinking about adolescent development and how their friends are really important to, to them and their, their social status. So I think there are a variety of reasons that, that kids in middle school are to, to report. And we call it reporting. You're not tattling your reporting that something has happened. So we're always encouraging kids to report. Please report. I see.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So it's still tattling though to a.

[R9406-420] Unidentified | Unidentified - backchannel fragments from several voices, mostly the b | 2017-11-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So it's still tattling though to a.
TEXT> Lot of kids.  Yeah, it's still tattling.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: It's still is. And so, you know, we it's something that, that we feel like we're up against all the time, or we'll find out that something has been going

[R9406-421] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Lot of kids. Yeah, it's still tattling.
TEXT> It's still is. And so, you know,  we  it's something that, that we feel like we're up against all the time, or we'll find out that something has been going on for a while. And why didn't you report and or we'll have kids who do report and they'll say, can you make sure that so-and-so doesn't know that we reported? Because then there's that, you know, that fear, their reputation is very important to them.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So and I guess that comes to my third question, which is, so I have all of the the schools worked together at some point to and maybe this is

[R9406-422] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: for a while. And why didn't you report and or we'll have kids who do report and they'll say, can you make sure that so-and-so doesn't know that we reported? Because then there's that, you know, that fear, their reputation is very important to them.
TEXT> So and I guess that comes to my third question, which is, so I have all of the the schools worked together at some point to and maybe this is more administrative, I guess, than, than just one particular school.  But have all of our schools here in Claremont worked together on, on a chart because it seems like if if a child comes from bluff, for example, or, or  does not, or Maple Avenue and there's a certain structure in place, in a certain way that they're used to, handling situations. And then they come here and it's a whole new thing. And you're saying to me now that it's changed this year again to a new structure. So I guess I guess my question is, are, are we is there something in place that helps the transition between what your disciplines are?  If they're different?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It sounds like you're wondering about consistency between schools. Is that right?

[R9406-429] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the protocol that's appropriate for a third grader may not be appropriate for a seventh grader, but there is a continuity as far as fairness, firmness and consistency. Age appropriate. But there isn't one size that's going to fit from grade one to grade 12.
TEXT> I  think what I was trying to ask is, is more on the subject of, again, it's not saying that. Does  does this apply to a third grader? Obviously it wouldn't. There's a structure for a third graders discipline. What I'm asking is, is, is is maple desired and bluff all have a certain criteria that they follow a certain way. Or do you all get together and as in a, in an entire group of teachers, principals, vice principals and work together, that okay, my kids coming up from Abel Avenue are at this point, they're coming into your school because you're merging. You're merging three smaller schools where they've been there for six years and emerging them all together in one school. And each school has a defined different way to deal. Yes, there's  a there's a protocol, but there's a different way. So they've spent they're going to spend a couple of years with you, but they've already spent that six years prior. So I guess my question is, you know, goes back to it's not I'm not asking you if it's implemented there, but are we all working together to sit down together and say, okay, you know, this isn't this is that.
NEXT> Paul Gerald: I, I know when our students transition in, into sixth grade, there's a lot of this teaching that happens within the first few weeks of school with the sixth grade

[R9406-431] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by su | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: would say some of the like the flowchart is new for us. We're using the flow chart. But bringing kids in, having kids report and responding to their needs has not changed. That and following the district policy has not changed. That has been consistent.
TEXT> And that's what this is. It's just a way of mapping the district policy. So I you know, I think the protocol I'm sure is very similar. At each you do interview, you talk with students, you do interviews, you you have to send letters. You have to file incident reports when bullying is found. So all of those all of those things are part of the district's policy. And those are followed at.
NEXT> Unidentified: Every step.

[R9406-456] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Put up on the on the student page, you could share on their student web pages or the logins. Like perhaps throw a bulletin out, you know, just a friendly reminder.
TEXT> So, the next slide is next steps. And we, Corey was kind enough to help us out. And we're planning a parent forum coming up in early December. We have ongoing staff training. We want to do more surveys with kids and with parents and with teachers.  And, Rebecca, with regard to what you were saying with parents, we would love to do a similar presentation like this for parents.
NEXT> Unidentified: To see.

[R9406-464] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Audra Buckland: it. Not, you know, not let it. It doesn't have to ruin your day either. It doesn't have to derail you from your education. It doesn't have to devastate you. But it it is. You also can't just ignore it when you're being treated for.
TEXT> And the other thing that complicates, kids now in school and we're learning is that that overlay of trauma and what trauma, does to the brain and the impact that it has. So that just further complicates things. So, yeah, we don't ever want to ignore it. We want to help them through it. Okay.  How can the board help us? One is  careful review of the bullying policy and procedures. You know, we're hoping that after you've heard all of our presentations, you know, I don't know who's up next. The next time. I don't know if it's elementary or high school, but I know you'll be hearing from all three levels. Maybe there can be some thought as you're revisiting the bullying policy. Also, I think that  hearing from us and supporting our the analysis that we're doing of our data, and I think that's important for you to hear and how we're responding to things, is is really important. Share the knowledge that you've gained tonight in the community. I think that would be really helpful. And encourage parents to call us directly if they have any concerns. You know, as Audra said earlier, when we hear that something has gone unreported, we don't sleep at night  when we're hearing those things. We want to be able to address things we've even had, you know, someone will come and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Say.

[R9406-470] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: If you.
TEXT> Have this concern. If we don't know about it, we can't act on it. So that's how you can help us. And then what do we have going for is we have incredible kids at the middle school. I know Middleton will come through and get his kid fixed periodically and go sit in the cafeteria. And we have amazing kids. They are  wacky sometimes, but they are really incredible. We have  a dedicated staff. I over the last few weeks I've had to kick people out at 7:00, go home. You know, they are. They're really working.
NEXT> Unidentified: Hard.

[R9406-478] Paul Gerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (name as introduced by superintende | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> Well, they're liking the lunch. They're enjoying it because they're saying they like the choice. We have more kids eating breakfast. So that's really good. Whenever we can feed them because they're always hungry, that's always a good thing. So one last thing that we're asking of you. We also did this with the teachers. Do you want to do this kind?
NEXT> Audra Buckland: Sure. So I just passed around an exit ticket. And if you can share, one thing that validated your your thinking about tonight's presentation, one thing that you learned through

[R9406-482] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: do a better job, but it's never it's never cured. And, you know, there's not a big band aid we can put on it and say, okay, we're done with bullying. Glad we clean that up because it's it's been around for years. Yes. Rebecca.
TEXT> Are you ready for a question? Another one. I just wanted to ask a question and just say a couple of things. My question is that we're reviewing the policy and procedures. So if you guys think of anything that you think should be different in there, you would like us to take a look at or something that's not working. You find not working. Should I say that again not working. You find not working. Not working. Can you please let us know too, so that we can, you know, we need your insight as well. As far as these things go, I really appreciate the presentation. I wish there was a way we could get it to parents. So maybe in December or something like that, we could do it for parents if we could get them to come. My concern isn't with, the paperwork that you guys are doing. It's not so much with the policy because I think the policy is pretty solid, although we could always look at it a little bit more. My concern is with the loopholes, like, kids are super stinking smart, and they find those loopholes and they catch on to our jargon.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And there's lots of different scenarios I could give you on what I mean by loopholes. You guys are probably thinking the same thing as me right now to. So

[R9406-487] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Paul Gerald: You're welcome. Alex.
TEXT> Thank you so much for coming in and reviewing this. I think I'd like to know more down the road. I don't have to answer today, but, you know, what's the, what's the conduct sanctions involved afterwards when once a student is found guilty of bullying? You know, I'd like to hear a little bit more about that down the road, but, you know, I think thank you for setting some stage for..
NEXT> Paul Gerald: Thanks for having us again. We thought this was a great opportunity. So thank you for having us. We'll collected tickets if you're done.

[R9406-533] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: school. But then look at this and let's look at another way. These 2000, 2011, 2011 to this year. Well, on the 4%, a little under 2% increase in. Let's look at the last four years, the budget has been increasing much more than that.
TEXT> How can this be? Because we are restructuring, we are taking away, we are the budget going up and we are restructuring and pulling it in, if you will. This isn't magic, it being very, very sensitive to the taxpayer, but it's also indicating very clearly that this budget is not out of control. Now, I understand what you're saying and I respect what you're saying, but how can the taxes be going up in Claremont when the school district budget is almost flatlined, because the taxes aren't being driven by the school budget? Let's talk about Sped. I've heard the Sped is out of control. First of all, special education is a critical component. 3040 years ago, children with disabilities had to drop out of school. They couldn't make it. Many of them could get jobs in the 1940s and 50s and 60s. But today. The war was put in place because children with disabilities should not be punished because they don't fit. It's no different than for those of us wearing glasses. Imagine if it was  glasses. You can't wear glasses, so if you have trouble seeing you don't fit in, kid, well, those things are gone. Thank God. Let's talk about speed though. Let's talk about what I've heard from this board.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's fetid, becoming more and more expensive. This is the history of Sped cost. The budget from 2013 to 2018. This represents when Krispy Zo arrived 2016, and since that

[R9406-535] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: because we've been squeezing and squeezing and restructuring, as indicated by the budget day directive showing you now 1.2 million below this year. How? And I'm very interested in listening. And the administrative team is to very interested in learning from you who you feel.
TEXT> Each school board member in attendance September 30th believe there may be potential savings. We want to understand where you're coming from. This isn't a challenge. We're not going to war with you. We need your help because we don't understand what you believe is the case. So that's why we're here, and that's why we want to work with you to have a better understanding. The number of teachers at Claremont School District in the past ten years. Numbers have been decreasing. Number of students this year compared to last year, I think it's 14 students different. So we're fairly stable as far as enrollment. And let's talk about the number of ministry number administrators. Can you continues to increase here we are 2008 and here we are 2018. If you notice the number of that Claremont School District. Now what happened here, Nathan, can I ask you to explain why we have this bump and what this represents?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Yeah.

[R9406-538] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Nathan: FTE there, and it represents our adulthood coordinator and our preschool coordinator who were hired this year to leave their programs. And there was a reduction in the middle school assistant principal from one out of point eight. So that comprises that increase in empty.
TEXT> But the perception that the number of administrators has continued to increase, with the exception of this bubble here just been explained to you. Let's talk about the number of sick personnel, the superintendent says superintendent, etc., the past ten years. These are the number of six employees. And this is the as a six administration. These are the number of staff. So are there. And I can tell you looking at other districts, number of students, number of staff in central office personnel were lean. In fact, we have reduced. So where am I? So here we are. Now why am I going back six years? The budget in the past six years and where we are in 2017 wasn't just created, wasn't just done because it felt good. Six years ago tomorrow I made a presentation to this board. Perception that a lack of consistency and accountability exists with supervision and evaluation of staff. That was a report six years ago. Why was that said to me? By parents, by citizens, by some staff? Why was that said to me in the fall of 2011, as they did mantra plan, because teachers weren't being observed, teachers weren't being evaluated, wasn't wasn't being done, supposed to have been done, but it wasn't being done in the contract wasn't being done.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So we changed that. And now we are supervising and evaluating staff. Several unidentified. And by the way, let me just jump back. That wasn't welcomed by many. And that's

[R9406-539] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Why was that said to me in the fall of 2011, as they did mantra plan, because teachers weren't being observed, teachers weren't being evaluated, wasn't wasn't being done, supposed to have been done, but it wasn't being done in the contract wasn't being done.
TEXT> So we changed that. And now we are supervising and evaluating staff.  Several unidentified. And by the way, let me just jump back. That wasn't welcomed by many. And that's why in March of 2000, scuse me, that's why in February 2013, it was a vote in on confidence against me, because we were now evaluating, identifying faculty who were having difficulty trying to support them. And some can we're not responding by that support by the principals. They were going to be non-renewal. And there was some pushback. Several unidentified middle school students. This is 2011. My first year there was a student playing freshman football with seniors high school five FS as a grade eight student across the board. And I said, what's going on now? It's sounds like I'm being disrespectful. And it sounded like I'm indicting. I'm not being disrespectful and being factual and Candy and I'm not saying employees in prior years weren't doing their job. They were working hard,  but things weren't going the way they should. Students tremendous difficulties experiencing transition. Elementary the middle and middle of the high. Comment from the community. Not one comment, but comments. These represent a packet serious disconnect involving cross grade communication elementary, middle, middle and high. Why therefore do we have curriculum specialists today? Why is it so important to have this cross great continuity between the elementary schools to the middle, middle to the high?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And let's talk about these strategic changes that we've just talked about and why we had these positions in place today. These positions in place today aren't by coincidence. It

[R9406-541] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: make some strategic changes. Okay, a few more comments about the strategic, excuse me, the planting planning technology 2011. We were in dark ages in technology. A high school teacher said to me in 20 1112, I don't use my computer very much with instruction.
TEXT> It's it's unreliable and it takes 5 to 10 minutes to boot up. That's why this community and the school board invested in technology, not because it's us do this because it's entry planning. We are way, way behind and where we are today with the strategic action plan that you improved recently, it was a clear need. There was a clear need to have some strategic planning and have a vision and a focus priorities going forward. So the Claremont School District, which planning initiative is a multiyear plan and where we are today in 2017 and what's in place in 2017 has been built for this. And this wasn't just done over 12 months in isolation.  This involved the community. It involved faculty. It involves some of you involved administration. And why we're struggling is if we're going to start taking apart or reducing the budget. After what you've seen gone on for the past six years. I'm I'm really concerned this won't be possible. So you're in a tough position, right? You have constituents. You have adults, you have pressure from the community, but you also have students. And I think I hope you've seen tonight that what would happen by this by school board, by the community, by administration over the past six years, we're not out of control. We're pretty lean. But look what we're doing in that lean mode.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You as a board, you cannot solve the real estate tax problem because the real estate tax does this, but our budget does this. And at the end of the

[R9406-598] Alex Herzog | Candidate for appointment, appointed and sworn in as Claremont School  | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Out.
TEXT> So I'm so glad to be back. Sorry. I wanted to break the tension there a little bit, because I think one of the things we're missing here is more data. What are we comparing ourselves to? We're not a silo. Let's take a look at what other schools I'd like to see. Ratios of pairs to students, to teachers, to students, all that. You know, it's probably stuff you already have. I think the more data we get might be helpful for us to determine. And I'd like to see where we stand compared to other, districts. And I think that would be important for us to see, because then you can say, yeah, we're out of control or no, we're right along the lines with everybody else, and that doesn't make it right. I think we can examine it still, but it would help us guide us a little bit more.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So just jumping in. On what? Piggyback on what Alex just said. What would have been helpful, for example, would the staffing would have been because ten years ago that

[R9406-602] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's s | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: We're below.
TEXT> The national average. You look at other districts in New Hampshire, they are well above. And as you look at the data, we are we are continually trending, trending down and continually looking for creative ways to bring some of the most, challenging kids back to the district because this is where they belong.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Excellent. That's what I'm getting at. I think the more data they have, sometimes it gets more but helpful.

[R9406-607] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: So and.
TEXT> I think population yeah would would be a good comparison. Both  student population, municipal population. Those two probably go coincide. Right.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The other piece of that we're missing is we saw failure rates from up to 2012 I think.

[R9406-614] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Oh, yeah. Absolutely.
TEXT> So, in in going with the special education part of it, I think it would be helpful  maybe if we see, cost  breakdowns on, like, for example, per student out as opposed to in, if you could do that because and I think we all come to an agreement prior to some of the people being on here, and that was when I first started two years ago, was these costs. And we didn't get to really see them last year. Like I think that again, it kind of skipped by.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Michelle, if I may. Page three of that September 1st memo has 13 items under Sped it. Did you look at that? Because those items, those are the items that

[R9406-617] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: With.
TEXT> What I'm trying to say right now is, is I think that I'm trying to find, you know, I'm  to see and understand, you know, why it is so out of control in that respect. It seems so much further out there in that respect. The cost, you know, per,  per driving back and forth. I'm not saying to take kids away. I know that you guys are working on that. We haven't heard a report about that for a while either. You know? So I get it. I'm just asking, you know, I guess I'm just trying to make it so that we people don't misunderstand the words that we're we're looking for savings altogether. Correct. Isn't that what the the outcome of this is? That everybody's looking for ways to save?  If you found that taking and using a small bus that could put transport six kids to that general area  is going to cost less than than having six individual people drive mileage reimbursement. Do you understand what I'm saying? I just I know I've seen, you know, and I've been a part of the mileage reimbursement. So  so  you know, and that and that it all comes out in the end.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think.

[R9406-621] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> It does. I think the list here, Michelle does will give you the answers to what you've been saying. This represents what Chris Bezos, some of it was presented tonight because I wanted to give you the mile high view. But the the inner workings of this, the details, the cost, the transportation, the schools even getting into without mentioning names, the needs of children and why we can't meet their needs on site. We would much prefer  to have every child who lives in Claremont be educated in Claremont.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I think that's been the whole champion for us to bring everybody back to Claremont.

[R9406-644] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: It's a great program.
TEXT> Oh, it's really remarkable where it's going. The irony is, because of the identified children,  it's not optional that this program be provided. And ironically, with our we're saving money by having a program on site versus having these services provided off site. If we didn't have this.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Program and that's not that's not my I'm not that was last week's presentation. So that was kind of my head. So that's not a specific target of mind. Sure.

[R9406-703] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: Them.
TEXT> And I appreciate it. And you got it from me. So the key is what we do with this going forward. Because we we all have the same goal. And it is your children and the other children in this community.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So, so based on the presentation. I'll say again, so where I'm coming from is we've taken a lot of resources, we've done restructuring, we've plowed those monies back into

[R9431-24] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Nathan: We get this. Third page. Thanks for 4448 out there.
TEXT> The way the the each district share of the budget is based upon taking one half of the average daily membership in attendance, which is the A, B, M A, which is the number of students who attend the school at the end of the previous school year, and one half of the most recently published equalized valuation, including utilities that I didn't have  those numbers updated last time, so it changed it slightly, increased Claremont share slightly, and decreased the unity share slightly. So the budget as presented has $1,287 more in district assessment for Claremont and $4,420 less for unit. How do you want to go through this? Do you have a.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, I think. Overboard Mike, that what we saw last time has been revised a.

[R9431-80] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Well, so you pull from one and then take care of the other.
TEXT> You did that time. I don't like doing that. But, in that instance, it was it was kind of an emergency situation. And so, having issues with our power school server and we needed the resources to fix that problem. Otherwise, we'd be out of student information system and have a lot bigger problems to deal with. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I don't I don't see power school here.

[R9431-83] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Nathan: That was a.
TEXT> Student information system training. So if.
NEXT> Nathan: We see it's.

[R9431-96] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Michael O'Neill: I didn't want to confuse the public hearing with the stuff that was in the paper and not show the stuff that was in the paper. So that'll be added and we can talk about that as soon as we're done with the public hearing.
TEXT> And to be clear, it was in last year's budget under the and it's been under the budget straight through. It was my misunderstanding as I was doing this. I had like a few hours to put this together. So I was scrambling to try to get everything in and the the student information system I didn't put into here, because when I asked about it, there was some confusion about whether it was supposed to be under the Claremont budget or under the budget. But since both Unity and  Claremont both used the student information system, once I looked at it the the day after we met here, I'm like, oh, that I missed that. So I, I felt bad, but that's this is really where it should be. Not.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: And the breakdown of that ends up being because it's based on the number of students in each district. It ends up being broken down.

[R9431-97] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity) (uncertain - never named on this recording;  | 2017-11-02
PREV> Josh Malloy: since both Unity and Claremont both used the student information system, once I looked at it the the day after we met here, I'm like, oh, that I missed that. So I, I felt bad, but that's this is really where it should be. Not.
TEXT> And the breakdown of that ends up being because it's based on the number of students in each district. It ends up being broken down.
NEXT> Nathan: Exactly.

[R9431-99] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity) (uncertain - never named on this recording;  | 2017-11-02
PREV> Nathan: Exactly.
TEXT> In a way that, you know, unity is paying for the part that goes with the number of students that use it.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: And it's a per student fee, so it gets.

[R9431-100] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Sara Lowe: In a way that, you know, unity is paying for the part that goes with the number of students that use it.
TEXT> And it's a per student fee, so it  gets.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: Broken down. I just wanted to be clear on that.

[R9431-104] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: So, It looks like you have three and a half staff you have yourself. And then the technology assistant in the network never administrator. And then a half time technology integrator. Is that so?
TEXT> So I'm full time. Tammy is half mine.  Brandy is mine. Jeff is mine.  Shannon is actually not, an s a employee. She's a Claremont employee, but she does a lot of work for unity. And what they do is they they  have a an amount of money. So when she goes to Unity's unit, he's charged for the time that she's over there. But because we're sending her to training for,  the student information system that both Unity and Claremont share, we're putting the the training for her under that, under the budget. So that's why she's under there. But she is not Shannon is not one of our employees.
NEXT> Nathan: Okay.

[R9431-118] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity) (uncertain - never named on this recording;  | 2017-11-02
PREV> Unidentified: That's not right. On a second.
TEXT> On a on this page that looks like this, where it's broken down by the average daily attendance  of students in each district, and then that's how they break down  how we each, each district pays into the SA six budget.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Are you about that? Because I was at Claremont an employee and I serviced unity as well.

[R9431-122] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity) (uncertain - never named on this recording;  | 2017-11-02
PREV> Nathan: It's very true.
TEXT> So tricky. Yeah. So for example in unity I know because we see this in our budget, if a student gets OT speech PT, we get billed for that time and travel and we pay whoever that district or outside agency is  that that's been.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: A serving when it comes to budget.

[R9431-151] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Josh Malloy: struggling with the devices locking up in the middle of teaching lessons, certain, certain E-Series laptops where we're just failing in the middle of classes. So what I'm told is that these are consumer grade devices versus what would be considered a business grade device.
TEXT> So I, I'm more familiar with Dell. I have much more understanding of their product line. It would be like buying an Inspiron versus,  one of their latitude laptops.  So there's different models and there's different levels of reliability. So again, if I want a laptop and I want to put that into a teacher's hands, I want to make sure that laptop, when they fire that thing up, it's ready to teach students. I don't want to give them a laptop that I'm not sure if it's going to work after a year or two,  and then expect it to run 7 or 8 years. So there's a lot that goes into making a decision. I look at annual total cost of ownership, and if you buy a device that's a lower grade device today and then you need to replace that in three years, if you look at how long that device is lasted  by year, it's going to your annual total cost of ownership is going to take a dive. And it's it's going to be astronomically expensive to support that device we're looking at right now. If we want to replace Ram in a seven year old machine, which would cost us $150 per machine, potentially to upgrade that to run a modern operating system, where initially we purchased that device for $900. Now we're buying an upgrade. We might have to buy another upgrade to keep that stuff running.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: We're also dealing with we don't have an SS agreement with Microsoft, so we have if you have a seven year old machine you've actually gone through, we're throwing out

[R9431-240] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-02
PREV> Sara Lowe: That's good.
TEXT> So if there's a hesitation out there from other groups. I have two young children.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's good.

[R9442-0] Unidentified | Unidentified - opening procedural line, presiding officer or superinte | 2017-11-15
PREV> 
TEXT> Extended learning opportunities. We have  staff and students here tonight. They've been very patient waiting. And  thank you again to have them have the opportunity to make a presentation. Chris.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Will that cut out the citizens comments?

[R9442-2] Unidentified | Unidentified - opening procedural line, presiding officer or superinte | 2017-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Will that cut out the citizens comments?
TEXT> No, I'm just saying let us do that and then so that so that'll be, like, I would, I would recommend Lexi Granny Air and then we'll go yellow. Yellow and then go back for it. So Michelle we're looking at we'll just go superintendents report. I mean a student representatives report then seven which is yellow. And then back to superintendent report and Citizens Citizen comments. Sure. I make a motion. We modify the.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Agenda as the superintendent has suggested.

[R9442-7] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence (u | 2017-11-15
PREV> Jason Benware: be done. I was supposed to be somewhere about ten minutes from now. And it's it's going to be an hour beyond that now as it is. So you changing your agenda is going to seriously affect my ability to speak to you folks tonight.
TEXT> What's the will of the board? Okay. So we'll do we'll do student representatives report citizens. Comments and then yellows.
NEXT> Lexi: Or we could do citizens citizens comments and then my report. That's totally fine too.

[R9442-10] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: So good. It's a collaborator that one. Okay. So yes, thank. You for speaking up. I do appreciate that. Go ahead. Frank, do you want to end that?
TEXT> Sure. Make a motion that we amend,  and have the citizens comments go before the student reps report.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: A second thought.

[R9442-12] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence (u | 2017-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: A second thought.
TEXT> Okay. All in favor? Aye. That'll be our order of business tonight. Student representatives of what? Oh, sorry. Approval of minutes. Approval of minutes. Rule of minutes. Do I have a motion.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: To approve? Minutes.

[R9442-18] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence (u | 2017-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I think they proved the minutes of November 1st.
TEXT> Second on the favor. Aye. Now, student representatives.  No citizens comments. Oh, sorry that we switch. It's been a long night already. Citizens comments and would like to please state your name and your ward once you get up there. Appreciate it.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Sorry to interrupt that, but that's okay. My name is Jason Ben where I live in Ward one. I have three C's tonight. I know you guys have a lot

[R9442-27] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Jason Benware: being somebody who's a taxpayer and a parent who pays the same tax rate as everybody else in this state or in this town. Sorry, that we should probably be afforded the same educational opportunities for our children in the district as every other school.
TEXT> It seems to me that 23 kids per class is hard to manage. Now we have two very good teachers there. Miss Flanagan and Mrs. Mortal are very good and very capable, but trying to deal with 23 kids in a class and in a classroom that's probably not big enough to begin with. I think that's very difficult. And if you're going to throw out the well, you know, the state allows 25 kids per class then then then let me ask if that's the case, then why are we over staffing the other two schools? I mean, based on basic math, right. If I do 60 divided by three, that's 20, right? And that's still smaller than the class sizes we have at the bluff. If I do 42 divided by two, that's 21. And that's still smaller than the classes we have at the bluff. So so I find that somewhat troubling  I would. I'm almost done. I would like I would like it there just to be equality if we're going to, if we're going to do these things. And I'm not suggesting that you should, you should take away teachers from either of those schools. What I am suggesting is that it should be fair throughout the board because, you know, Mr. Goodwin, you've said and I  I'm going to paraphrase, but you've said.
NEXT> Jason Benware: A child's education should not be dictated by their zip code. Well, I don't necessarily think a child's education in this town should be dictated by the ward they live

[R9442-35] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Go control. Sir, it's called local control.
TEXT> Well, it's a requirement. It's a state requirement. If it's it's a the state statute 301, whatever it might be. I looked it up today. It's 1000ft² minimum for a kindergarten classroom or  50ft² per child, whatever is greater. Which means that classroom that has 23 kids and it needs to be at least a 150ft², including storage capacity and things like that. I'm not even sure it's that big. So I would request that there be some measurements done to make sure that they're in an adequate sized classroom. So these are my concerns, and I'm voicing them because other people have them too. But I'm the only one willing to stand up here and say them. And I want my children to get the same education that every other kindergartner has in this town. Okay.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, Chris, I thank you for your comments. I wish you would ask me. I have a concern about the Bluff Elementary School kindergarten class. What are you

[R9442-40] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: On the note.
TEXT> Hi. Thank you. Jason, for your concerns and your and your critiques. My grandson also goes to school. He he started his kindergarten here, there last year. So he's a first grader this year. And he struggled great greatly. However, I don't know if you're aware that they do have paras that go in there and are in their most of the day. I believe in each kindergarten has a para along with the teacher, so you're not so I guess. So to maybe even relieve you a little, to understand that it's not just that one teacher having to deal with 25 or 24 children, that there's actually another teacher in there, and then others called. If there's incidents like last year,  my grandson had to have someone actually sit with him most of the time. The superintendent.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'm simply looking for equality. Are there paras at the other? At the desired and the and the Maple Ave. So there's 14 kids plus paras.

[R9442-41] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: just that one teacher having to deal with 25 or 24 children, that there's actually another teacher in there, and then others called. If there's incidents like last year, my grandson had to have someone actually sit with him most of the time. The superintendent.
TEXT> I'm simply looking for equality. Are there paras at the other? At the desired and the and the  Maple Ave. So there's 14 kids plus paras.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I want I want to also explain to you that you're about us being the lowest, as far as looking at it from the free meal program is incorrect

[R9442-43] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence | 2017-11-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So I want I want to also explain to you that you're about us being the lowest, as far as looking at it from the free meal program is incorrect because there's other schools that actually have a higher free meal. Portion. Mike, that's not.
TEXT> Well, okay. I'm going to kind of  only because we're under citizens form kind of getting into. But to to cut to the chase, Jason, all of the things you brought up have already been asked by the school board as part of the budget process, staffing student. So come to the budget meetings, you're going to get answers to all that questions because we've had the same one. Let's go ahead.
NEXT> Lexi: Looks I just wanted to kind of piggyback off after. Yeah. After what Doctor Goodwin said. I was born and raised in the bluff area. And my class sizes of

[R9442-44] Lexi | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (surname not  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: the things you brought up have already been asked by the school board as part of the budget process, staffing student. So come to the budget meetings, you're going to get answers to all that questions because we've had the same one. Let's go ahead.
TEXT> Looks  I just wanted to kind of piggyback off after. Yeah. After what Doctor Goodwin said.  I was born and raised in the bluff area.  And my class sizes of first grade. I had 27 children in my class, and we didn't have. We had one parent and one teacher. I had the greatest teacher ever, Miss Campbell. She's great.  And so I like to think that the senior class of 2018, we do just fine.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And I think that's excellent. And I do believe it's perfectly, perfectly reasonable to believe that large class sizes may work. I just find it's it's troublesome that there's such

[R9442-47] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben where'); cluster also absorbs | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: I would strongly suggest keep coming to the budget meetings and keep being vocal at the budget meetings. That's the time we're going to be talking about this for everybody listening for.
TEXT> The. Kids right now. That's the question. I mean, the budget meetings. Excellent. So that's great for when that.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We don't we don't have the power to to wave the wand and fix things in the second time it.

[R9442-60] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: That's a good thing.
TEXT> Oh, if you want to talk about passion, sir, I'll go 1 to 1 with you. In all seriousness, though, your passion is my passion, and  I haven't turned my back on this matter. But because it deals with children, it deals with the school. And because we don't want to get in to many details because we would be, in essence, stigmatizing a group of children. But we we are addressing it, and we're not going to be waiting until September 2018 if all goes planned within before, by early January or late December, we're going to be correcting it by an adjustment if the school board approves, because it's going to cost some dollars. Very good.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thank you. Thank you. Have a nice night, everyone.

[R9442-66] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.
TEXT> Thanks, Michel. Thanks for all you did. Anybody else on the citizens forum? Okay. Student representatives report. Right.
NEXT> Lexi: Could I defer my report until. After the, extended learning opportunities? Because I know that there's people here waiting, and they probably want to get home. So.

[R9442-70] Unidentified | Unidentified - short fragments from several voices (student, technolog | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: There you go.
TEXT> Students in our first grade class.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's right. Right, right. Great.

[R9442-72] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: That's right. Right, right. Great.
TEXT> Thank you for having me. Christine Downing, curriculum specialist. I oversee the yellow program at Stevens High School. So I'm actually going to for my part of the presentation and do it afterwards, because I want you to hear from the voices of Ells. All right. And so the first group that I want to bring up is going to be Clara Avery. Her parent, Shelly Avery, who's also a teacher at Stevens High School, art teacher, and Karen Doucet, who is the owner of the Old Courthouse restaurant in Newport.  And I have a couple other  groups of students that I'm bringing up for you, and they're just going to tell you what their ELO is about and what it's done for them. Okay, so come on up, ladies. Mike's all yours.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Oh, okay.

[R9442-83] Shelly Avery | Art teacher, Stevens High School, and parent of an ELO student (identi | 2017-11-15
PREV> Shelly Avery: as well as two pastry chefs to bounce things off from. So it became this whole collaboration for her. Through it. Karen, in the end, offered her a job for next summer to continue as well. Claire is looking into pastry schools as a teacher.
TEXT> I've also run ellos by using Google Classroom and working with students that want to  approach art in a slightly different way, in a more alternative avenue. And through Google Classroom, they're able to do their research piece as well as their presentation at the end. I have seen students that don't do well in the classroom because of either being a unable to sit for a long periods of time, or our curriculum doesn't go special into what their particular interests are, and the yellow provides the opportunity for them to really focus, and it actually makes them  have a more of a respect for education, where they might feel sort of disenchanted by it. And in fact, then when they start coming back into the classroom, they have a different outlook on it, because now they have a focus and they see a purpose to their education through this experience. So it's been wonderful to see it from both sides.
NEXT> Christine Downing: All right. All right I'm going to bring up my next two pair, Jesse Beryl and Alyssa Ellison. And both of them participated over a couple of summers in the

[R9442-93] Chandler Zullo | Student, Stevens High School senior (ELO presenter) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: So he calculations.
TEXT> With the math. I'm kind of, she said, doing the green energy, but I'm also doing, like, heat loss.  Like looking around the school and figuring out how much heat the system actually provides. There's a bunch of things can't think of off the top of my head, but it's definitely a great experience. And it helps students who like, struggle and don't learn with, like, I learn better with hands on. And that's it to me. More important, learning hands on than better in the classroom. So.
NEXT> Christine Downing: So I leave these three up if you have any quick questions for them, because then I'm going to let them go because he's got to get dinner. He hasn't

[R9442-106] Jesse Burrill | Student, Stevens High School junior (ELO presenter; ASR also 'Jesse Be | 2017-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks guys. I have would.
TEXT> And just  about extended learning opportunity credits. I think it would be beneficial to make more students aware about them as well, because I know of a lot of students when  I'll bring up my experience with Red River, they don't even know what an ELO is, or that it's an option that they can take. So just in terms of PSA, it'd be a good idea. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[R9442-115] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: that's where the teachers really create new curriculum, new design. There is literally another additional prep that they're having to do. Chandler's is a prime example that was completely created by Mr. Morton. Myself and Chandler redesigned. We went advanced beyond the curriculum for him.
TEXT> And so the breakdown here, just to note that the percentages and the circle graph are based on the total number of Ells, and I'll have those for you in a minute here on the slide.  So roughly right about now, about 40%  of our stipends are being created from the I mean, our LS are being created from the ground up with new curriculum that doesn't necessarily match the current curriculum we have for our courses versus about 37% our existing course curriculum. Okay.  On the side are our total costs for stipends. And I just want to preference those total costs are over two fiscal cycles last year's fiscal cycle. In this current one to date,  the total cost is $17,650. But what I want to preference here is that really our only actual expenditures are 11,950 over the two cycles. The remaining 5700 is I don't take a stipend, okay. Because part of my role is to oversee the L program. So when I oversee and I oversee about a third of them, right now, I have about 52 kids on my caseload right now that I oversee.  So there's no stipend issue. Okay. So that gives you a sense grade level distribution. This is the best part. A lot of people also have the misconception that LOS are only for upperclassmen.
NEXT> Christine Downing: As you can see, we have a pretty good representation there across the grade levels. So that's one of the first big misconceptions. I deal with kids, because the freshmen

[R9442-119] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: All, 70.
TEXT> Percent of our ellos are our high end kids who are seeking that full 27 credit diploma track. Okay, so  they are rigorous and that's their intent. Here's the breakdown of the number of Ells between last year and this year. Note that number of 26 is actually outdated by about eight right now that I just processed within the last week and a half. So we're already well above pace compared to last year, and we're only a quarter of the way through the year breakdown by subject area. So you can see. So it's cutting across all our content areas.  And in the packet you do have a  one of your sheets was a list of I pulled some of the sample focus areas out so you could see the actual articulated focus areas. Because that's one of the first thing we set in the El plan. I also gave you a sample in your packet of a completed L plan, so you can see how it's drafted out. You know what rigors behind it.  And thank you for allowing us to present to you. They're pretty excited. They're an awesome group of kids to work with. And they amaze me every day with everything that they do.  So if you have any questions, let me know.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Sure.

[R9442-124] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: you know, it's not exactly alignment to what I'm doing in my course. What we have is curriculum. But I could easily do this and I can do it through flex after school. We can adjust some things and we can customize it this way.
TEXT> So theoretically, Nikoloz, accessible to any student.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Any student, any student. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's. Yeah.

[R9442-125] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: So theoretically, Nikoloz, accessible to any student.
TEXT> Any student, any student. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's. Yeah.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Thank you. Very good explanation. Yeah.

[R9442-130] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: I'm sorry.
TEXT> I guess I expected to see some kids doing PE through that, but I didn't see any.
NEXT> Christine Downing: I think we had a few. Frank. If I remember, I think there was three. Let me back up a second. Where's my physical education.

[R9442-173] Christine Downing | Curriculum specialist, Stevens High School (ELO program coordinator) | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Every.
TEXT> Student voice about things that we need to talk about, like one that came up with, okay, teachers are batting their heads against, well with cell phone use. So let's as a student group, create a PSA about how to effectively use your cell phone during class. Right.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Teachers or students?

[R9442-174] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence | 2017-11-15
PREV> Christine Downing: things that we need to talk about, like one that came up with, okay, teachers are batting their heads against, well with cell phone use. So let's as a student group, create a PSA about how to effectively use your cell phone during class. Right.
TEXT> Teachers or students?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah.

[R9442-187] Unidentified | Unidentified - short fragments from several voices (student, technolog | 2017-11-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: You have in the packet.
TEXT> My report. Formation student report.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Oh sorry.

[R9442-194] Lexi | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (surname not  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I would have waited. It's all right.
TEXT> So here's a little Stevens update.  Right now, a select group of students.  Well, they were,  including myself. And a quarry was also there, at this week's regional economic profile meeting.  We have all committed to participating in each meeting  that will occur on certain Wednesdays of the month.  These are public meetings, so the public is welcome to attend them as well. They take they take place at the Newport extension of the tech Center. And the National Honor Society is hosting our annual talent show on Friday, December 1st at 7:00 pm in the Stevens High School auditorium. Admission is $5 at the door. All proceeds go to both the Stevens High School Fine Arts Program and the National Honor Society. Please come out and support these organizations and have a wonderful time watching the amazing talents we have at Stevens. Parent advertisements. This includes messages for your senior pictures, etc. for this year's yearbook are due by Friday, December 19th. To Karen Collison in Room 221 at Stevens High School. Parents can make all checks payable to Stevens High School yearbook.
NEXT> Lexi: If you cannot make the first deadline, please contact Miss Carlson before January 20th, 2018 so she can reserve U.S. spot because parent advertisement pages fill up quickly. Students may

[R9442-195] Lexi | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (surname not  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Lexi: we have at Stevens. Parent advertisements. This includes messages for your senior pictures, etc. for this year's yearbook are due by Friday, December 19th. To Karen Collison in Room 221 at Stevens High School. Parents can make all checks payable to Stevens High School yearbook.
TEXT> If you cannot make the first deadline, please contact Miss Carlson before January 20th, 2018 so she can reserve U.S. spot because parent advertisement pages fill up quickly. Students may get an advertisement form from Miss Carlson during school in the same advertising form. Has also been sent out to all parent emails.  My Honors physics one class taught by Mr. John Usher, which I talked about on November 1st. We're continuing our work on our team bridges. Mr. usher is confident that we will have our bridges done soon. We are sharing our designs and material construction techniques with one another. We're figuring out how to put our gusset plates made out of,  index cards on our bridges. And we're learning how to put the glue just right so it sticks well, and all that fun stuff. We're also learning Newton's second law of motion with respect to objects sliding down a frictionless ramp, and object sliding down a ramp with friction. We are seeing the importance of mathematics in this course, and realize that the physics at this level cannot be accomplished without the higher mathematics learned from geometry, algebra two, and trigonometry. So Monday,  myself, along with seven other  of seven other members of the Stevens of the Steven Ayers, which is the Stevens High School Honors choral group.
NEXT> Lexi: We rehearsed from 5:00 PM to 8:00 pm. At Dartmouth College. And I'm just going to pass this around because that's the program. We we we rehearsed with the Handle

[R9442-196] Lexi | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (surname not  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Lexi: physics at this level cannot be accomplished without the higher mathematics learned from geometry, algebra two, and trigonometry. So Monday, myself, along with seven other of seven other members of the Stevens of the Steven Ayers, which is the Stevens High School Honors choral group.
TEXT> We rehearsed from 5:00 PM to 8:00 pm.  At Dartmouth  College. And I'm just going to pass this around because that's the program.  We we we rehearsed with the Handle Society and two other high school choirs to prepare for the performance the next day. So the next day, Tuesday,  from 10 a.m. to about 9 p.m.. And we all got home around, like, 930. We had a very long day. My voice is tired still, but,  we performed again with the Handle Society and the two other high schools with the pieces that we, have been working on for months now. We got the music in September. We. It was very difficult. Music. Very long.  Very hard to understand. It was all in Latin. So we used to hang movements.  We sang the movements. Oh, not a Luke's, which is movement three and movement five, which is a news day from Morton Lawson's,  Luke's eternal, which means eternal light in Latin.  So we sang that with them, and that was an amazing time in passing around the program so everyone can see. So a Dessner update recently, the staff and students at Desert Elementary School enjoyed their annual Veterans Day program. This program includes a visit from the Lime Town Band. They performed several different patriotic songs for the entire school to enjoy. On Tuesday, November 21st, the the Dessner PTA is beginning a fundraiser. They'll be raffling off themed blanket  baskets.
NEXT> Lexi: I keep wanting to say blankets for some reason when I read it. When I read. Your email, I read it as blankets and I'm like, that is so cool!

[R9442-201] Lexi | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (surname not  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Lexi: members that were veterans and also veterans from the VA, and we wrote like lengthy letters I wrote went to my great grandfather. It was just the sweetest thing ever. I remember that to this day he got very emotional because he's a veteran himself.
TEXT> So it means a lot to a lot of people.  A Semmes update. This is a lengthy one. Students from both CMS and Stevens will be going on a field trip to Keene State College this Friday to get the opportunity to experience some college touring and a free college lunch. My little brother was very excited about that, so he had to have the lunch included in my report. The CMS Drama Club recently performed the play Something About Ghosts. The director, Ethan Lachance, with the help of his assistant Gabby Johnson, Megan Warnick helped the actors and actresses with this play. CMS Student Council, led by Courtney Steele, had a school wide election of officers. Each candidate read a speech to the entire student body. The newly elected officers are Emily Via as president, Matthew Davis as first vice president, Matthew Egan as second vice president, Hannah Royce as secretary, Nathan Knowlton as treasurer, and Emily Haughey as historian and public relations. The September students of the month  are sixth grade, and I'm probably going to butcher her name, and I feel so awful about it and not. And they. Ananya, is it bent? Bundy. Bundy. Okay. And then seventh grade is Emily Plant. In eighth grade was Haley Curtis. The October students of the month were,  sixth grade Kylie Bundy, seventh grade Gabrielle Beaudry, and eighth grade Hannah Miller. So.
NEXT> Lexi: I, I talked about him before he came and visited the high school band. Also, he worked with the CMS, a band, on October 6th. The a band also performed

[R9442-202] Lexi | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (surname not  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Lexi: and not. And they. Ananya, is it bent? Bundy. Bundy. Okay. And then seventh grade is Emily Plant. In eighth grade was Haley Curtis. The October students of the month were, sixth grade Kylie Bundy, seventh grade Gabrielle Beaudry, and eighth grade Hannah Miller. So.
TEXT> I, I talked about him before he came and visited the high school band. Also,  he worked with the CMS, a band, on October 6th.  The a band also performed at the UMass Band Day, just like the Stevens High School marching band did on October 28th. That was so much fun. We saw all of them and we all had, you know, a big like, get together type thing in the middle of the parking lot. Miss, which is she's the sixth grade social studies teacher, reports that as part of their civic participation standard in her classes, they researched the City council election. November 6th was student parent advisory conferences. And these went great. Mr.. The sign language interpreter at CMS is offering free sign language classes for students and staff. Guidance counselors and Vista volunteers have have started implementing Gear Up at CMS. They'll visit advisories once a month, so stay tuned for updates. This week is stuffed the Turkey Spirit Week. Monday was PJ day. Tuesday was sports day. Wednesday. Today is twin day. Thursday is little kid day and Friday is Eagle Pride day. Next week, the CMS Wellness Committee is the annual Turkey Trot. The Geography Bee and the spelling bee are scheduled for January.
NEXT> Lexi: These take place in front of the entire student body. Thank you to Kelly and Oksana Conversion for overseeing these events. CMS has 3D printers. Both computer and tech editor

[R9442-203] Lexi | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (surname not  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Lexi: was PJ day. Tuesday was sports day. Wednesday. Today is twin day. Thursday is little kid day and Friday is Eagle Pride day. Next week, the CMS Wellness Committee is the annual Turkey Trot. The Geography Bee and the spelling bee are scheduled for January.
TEXT> These take place in front of the entire student body. Thank you to Kelly  and Oksana Conversion for overseeing these events. CMS has 3D printers. Both computer and tech editor classes have begun to incorporate the use of these into their curriculums. CMS is currently developing a Stem lab and are looking for great opportunities to get up to get it up and running. And here are some sports updates.  Varsity football won their first playoff game against Somersworth on Saturday, November 4th with a score of 33 to 6. Congratulations boys. We are also proud of you for making it to the semifinal rounds of championships. Sadly, they lost their other game on Saturday, but that's right, they made it pretty far and we're so proud of them for that. Stevens boys basketball will have tryouts next Monday. And Stevens girls basketball had trials this Monday. And that concludes my report.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9442-263] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, Claremont School District | 2017-11-15
PREV> Josh Malloy: at roughly, 2170 devices are currently in our fleet. That's an average of 1085 devices divided by two technicians. Not technically. That's one technician and one half time and one part time. Just to look at the New Hampshire Star document where we fall here.
TEXT> At least one technician staff per 350 computers is developing tech. Keep in mind, we're at 1085. So at developing tech, which is a level two. So if you are familiar with rubrics, there's a rubric of 1 to 4. Used to be a popular thing. I don't know if they do rubrics in all these, but used to be a thing back in my day. So  at one would be early tech. So there's a lot of work to be done. It's response times greater than 24 hours where we're not seeing response times at that level. Okay. So we're still functioning even though we have we're managing over 1000 devices per per technician. We're still hitting these targets of tech support. So same day in classroom technology support. They infrequently cause major disruptions. Curriculum is delivered on a regular basis using that technology. We have a network administrator. So we're functioning at this level despite the fact that we actually are at about 1000 devices per, per technician. If we look at the total number of users, when we calculate the number of staff we have and the number of students we have, we're looking at 2178 seats.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: If you look across at all the different industries, you're looking at, I'm just going to pick on healthcare because we have a lot of healthcare in this area. So

[R9442-278] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, Claremont School District | 2017-11-15
PREV> Josh Malloy: Okay. How much does it cost to fix the color wheel? That's cheaper to buy a whole new projector. Okay. How long is it to get to get a person? Not get a new projector? Get it installed. Okay. That's going to take a month.
TEXT> So now I've got I just went to a parent teacher conference  and I didn't even realize that going into it. They kind of ambushed me, because I had no knowledge, that this was my students class that the projector had failed in, and the teacher was all excited because the projector was going to be there in a couple of weeks. And when she said that again, it broke my heart because  she's been altering her teaching for at least two weeks, and now it's going to be another two weeks before she has a projector back and she uses that projector. I know because my son's in the classroom and he talks about it when he goes home about how that teacher uses the projector in her classroom. So now she's excited. At this point, the new level of standard that we're at right now is when there's a problem, we can fix it in a month if it's a projector. That to me  is not is not fast enough. That's not where we need to be. If we're asking our educators to use these tools. And a lot of them are, and we spent a lot of resources and a lot of effort to put these things out there.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: If we take this dip like this, you know, it's it's not it's not that these problems just evaporate and go away. We didn't just save 300, $300,000 last year.

[R9442-279] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, Claremont School District | 2017-11-15
PREV> Josh Malloy: not is not fast enough. That's not where we need to be. If we're asking our educators to use these tools. And a lot of them are, and we spent a lot of resources and a lot of effort to put these things out there.
TEXT> If we take this dip like this, you know, it's it's not it's not that these problems just evaporate and go away. We didn't just save 300, $300,000 last year. We we we moved that $300,000 to this year. So you said okay, last year's school board. Thank you very much. Carry it over. Here you go, guys. Here's $300,000 you figure out how to spend. Well, we were going to replace this year and also take care of last year's budget while you're at it. So if you look at, again, the same study that I pulled the other statistics from, this is from the New Hampshire Stars, from the Department of Education, their Neon program. That's where these numbers are coming from. So early tech is less than $175 per student spent on replacement of equipment for the district. And again,  we were at 300. We did have a spike that went almost up to 420 14.  But we're looking at roughly,  five $542,700 on an annual basis to sustain just above a two. So at $300 times our 1800,  1809 students. So, we're not sustaining that that 542,000. We're coming in under that year after year.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: And last year we came in. Significantly under that because we didn't replace any equipment. So all I did was I took a calculation. Let's look at how much of

[R9442-280] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, Claremont School District | 2017-11-15
PREV> Josh Malloy: almost up to 420 14. But we're looking at roughly, five $542,700 on an annual basis to sustain just above a two. So at $300 times our 1800, 1809 students. So, we're not sustaining that that 542,000. We're coming in under that year after year.
TEXT> And last year we came in. Significantly under that because we didn't replace any equipment.  So all I did was I took a calculation. Let's look at how much of our equipment that's out there is over is going to be more than five years old next year in the FY19 budget. And this is just a sheer calculation  of how many laptops are older than five years. And I'm looking at I just got an email today, forwarded me, over at the middle school. They have nine year old laptops and they're trying to use them and they can't boot up quick enough. Some of them don't work. Kids can't log into some of them, and they're trying to use them for testing, and they're just not functioning the way they need to function. So  that's  at CMS.  They're in that 45 laptops. And we're looking at. So when I say they're older than five that doesn't mean they're all exactly 5 or 6 years old. They're not exactly seven years old. We have a spectrum of devices that we're dealing with. The other thing that we haven't really been factoring in into our budget in the past is projectors, and we're starting to get a lot of projectors, smart boards.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: And the reason I put interactive projector here instead of is because they're not developing Enos anymore. So we can't get the parts for these. I can't get the pens

[R9442-281] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, Claremont School District | 2017-11-15
PREV> Josh Malloy: They're not exactly seven years old. We have a spectrum of devices that we're dealing with. The other thing that we haven't really been factoring in into our budget in the past is projectors, and we're starting to get a lot of projectors, smart boards.
TEXT> And the reason I put interactive projector here instead of is because they're not developing Enos anymore. So we can't get the parts for these. I can't get the pens that make them work. And, and get this equipment in to support these, and they're over five years old. So it's going to be a struggle. I don't want to replace those with the nose because I can't get Enos anymore. So I'm saying we should probably put an interactive projectors because of the options. They're much cheaper than smartphones. But I'm looking at this list. And as this continues to grow,  and if we were to cut the budget like we did last year for technology replacement, we get into a very dark place very quickly. And I can't promise we'll sustain the same service levels that we did before. So if we look at this, the equipment older  than five years old. I,  I  want to point out this one again from the same New Hampshire Star program. We have early tech, developing tech, proficient tech and advanced tech. We can't quite get to advance because we're not one student for modern computer. I was under the impression this district was was going for a five year replacement cycle.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: And most of our equipment. I don't recommend that for Chromebooks, but our Chromebooks aren't that old. And by the way, we've been expanding our Chromebook inventory significantly. So when

[R9442-320] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: What's your pleasure?
TEXT> I mean, personally, is being I'm here in on this board for a reason because I'm here to help children have a better education. If it means staying here till midnight to hear stuff and get through stuff to make stuff work, then that's what I'm committed to. So that's just me.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'm sorry I'm so tired. Is there any way those questions can be answered? You know how you have listed. You have them listed out in here. Is there any

[R9442-450] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the Chair's absence | 2017-11-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sent forward.
TEXT> But where is that number coming from? Honestly, it was a combination of everybody there with ideas that we were throwing out in. The number just escalated from level funding. I started level funding. And but to cut right to the chase, Doctor Goodman, what you just said is the most positive thing that I've heard in this conversation. That's exactly what we wanted. When we did what we did Saturday, we wanted to see what it looked like if we got there. Nobody here is saying unequivocally, we're cutting 1.2.  We want to try.  We want to try to lower the tax rate by $1.74. What is this budget you propose due to the tax rate? Increases it by something. Any increase is a thousand times away from what we wanted to start with. So yeah, this is a line in the sand you should not have drawn in. It's a complete disregarded the directive. However, what you just said is exactly what we want. Give it to us. Make us do the heavy lifting. Our job is budget. Our job is not to educate kids. It's to hire you people, to educate kids, and to provide the policy and the funding to do it the best we possibly can in the most affordable way we can.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So that's you just described exactly what we're trying to get to. We want to see what it looks like, and then we can have the conversation to see everything

[R9442-460] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: We just. I've never seen a board so engaged and committed to trying to really get to the meat and potatoes of this, and we might come up with something better, but you're not giving us the chance and can't is not an acceptable answer.
TEXT> December 6th you will have it. I did not want to go forward and simply comply with a directive based on a conversation. I don't know where you're coming from without you least understanding a historical perspective, what's going on in the past six years and that where we are today.  However, regardless, I've done my job. I've done my job advocating for the past six years and the work of staff and supporting students. You want to go down that path, I respect it. We'll go down that path December 6th. You will have that budget.
NEXT> Unidentified: It will be or it'll.

[R9442-500] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Chris Irish: Well, I care about Claremont. I really don't care what the other districts are doing.
TEXT> So no, I don't have the administrator information, but I do have other information. So what you'll see is  across the top of the spreadsheet, the enrollment figures, the total number of teachers, and the student to teacher ratio. Those figures, this is what I just did, are from the New Hampshire Department of Education website that can pull that information. I pulled every district that was plus or -300 from Claremont School District is listed in this report. I also then pulled geographically similar districts such as Newport centipede who are near us, but they would be beyond the plus or -300 students. And then I pulled some districts that are demographically similar. That would be also possibly beyond the plus or -300. So that would include places like  Valley Regional or Dover. Fourth column or fifth column, I guess if you think about it, operational budget for 1718, those are not necessarily the budgets posted on the warrants. As you know, in our budget, for instance, it's a 30 million, $31 million budget for operations. We put about a $34 million budget on the warrant, and that's because of the food service pass through and the grants that we receive.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we have to have that dollar figure on our warrant and able in order for us to be able to allocate those resources and those funds, even though that's

[R9442-501] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: on the warrants. As you know, in our budget, for instance, it's a 30 million, $31 million budget for operations. We put about a $34 million budget on the warrant, and that's because of the food service pass through and the grants that we receive.
TEXT> So we have to have that  dollar figure on our warrant and able in order for us to be able to allocate those resources and those funds, even though that's not the total amount funded through the taxpayer.  Next column, special education rate, that's the percentage of total students in each of those districts were identified as having an Individualized Education plan or special education.
NEXT> Chris Irish: At some point, could you? Because that jumped out of where the second highest in the of all of this, could you come up with a percentage of the budget

[R9442-510] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: Comparative.
TEXT> To like a. A district 20 miles away. And in this district we have approximately it's from the National Center for Education Statistics, which is kind of cool. I've never even seen it before. But, it said we have approximately 408 kids in Claremont on IEPs and 20 miles away, they have 179 approximately on IEP. So that's just a tidbit of information. That's a good chunk right there.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Depends on who you're comparing to. So 20 miles away includes a few different.

[R9442-512] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - second cluster; 'Becky' at  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Depends on who you're comparing to. So 20 miles away includes a few different.
TEXT> School districts. And then and then for example they have L 69 students and we have 12. You know what I mean. So it's all figurative but it still sticks out, you know, not in a bad way in a, in a pretty eye opening money way. Yeah.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It's about seven, about 7.1 million of that. Our budget.

[R9442-526] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-11-15
PREV> Unidentified: No, no. Let her finish. Yeah. Come on.
TEXT> If you look at the homeless count, that data figure is a year old. That's because the new data isn't available. I tried getting it directly from the Department of Education and got an out of office response since the last time we discussed, so I haven't been able to get the updated numbers for that. Total buildings is also  a little bit, subject to interpretation. It's based on what was on each individual school district's website for the number of buildings that they have. Some of those school districts include a preschool. Specific building, and some of them include a CTE specific building,  where some of them are combined in the other building. Present free and reduced lunch. Is simply that. But those figures again are from 1617, not this current school year. The out of district percent. That's a percentage of students who are placed out of district for special education or other services, and then the equalized tax rate for local education. So the equalized tax rate is that's the education or local school district component of the total tax rate for those different communities. One thing to keep in mind with Hanover, for instance, the data for that particular line is a little, unclear because Hanover is one of the, I think, two interstate school districts.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so trying to ascertain that information is a challenge. And they did not return any of our attempts to communicate with them directly to get better information. So I,

[R9442-683] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: What.
TEXT> I just I heard I heard some kids today concerned that their teachers were concerned. I don't want us to be like. We're going to be we're going.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: To I have a question about that, isn't it? Aren't teachers.

[R9442-688] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - second cluster; 'Becky' at  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: 10:00.
TEXT> Okay, so aren't teachers looked at every year depending on student enrollment? Like, isn't that always being looked at like same as OT caseload. Like isn't that all Becky.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It has been. But this year with your directly. But it won't be great.

[R9442-690] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - second cluster; 'Becky' at  | 2017-11-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: It has been. But this year with your directly. But it won't be great.
TEXT> But what I'm saying is there is mass chaos and panic out there from teachers. And clearly kids are thinking their teachers are going to be gone. So isn't that something that's looked at every year anyway, just as a proactive strategy to see student enrollment? Okay.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But it has not been because of the directives.

[R9470-36] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: discussion you you started for us a couple of years ago, and that is some of the, the, the class sizes that we have at the high school. Yeah. And I think I think that's something that maybe we do have to look at. Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. I, I don't know  I know what the process was when I was there, I would get a what was called the saturation study. We didn't quite get what I wanted this year,  which showed a percentage. We got lists of how many kids were in classes and that's okay. But it's not it's it's not concise enough for me. There's a process in Charlie Gesner used to do it for me when I asked. And you look at your capacity of your classes because all classes aren't designed to have 25 kids in them. A computer class might have,  15 kids, and a CTE class might have 12 kids. Based on what our what how many kids we can put in there. So the there's a report that can be generated with the what the class would be if it were full and that could be 12, could be 15, could be 24. And science is 24. Lab sciences of 24, regular English could be 30, whatever 25. And so how many kids are taking the course? How many sections are there? How many teachers teach the course those courses?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And would you come up with as a percentage. And so I would look at if a, if a, if a department were operating at 50 to 65% capacity, there's

[R9470-51] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: One algorithm for that.
TEXT> No, because one of the things that complicates the tech center is the fact you've got Newport and Centipede kids in there as.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Well, so you don't have the same.

[R9470-67] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Before.
TEXT> We get too far off.  I'm sorry, Michelle, I think I  want to get started on as well. But I was looking at a 10,000 mile view of what we've got going. I've checked out some other school districts,  the, the sheet that,  Superintendent Corey gave us and compared. And if you look down and you look at the, the number of enrollment compared to what their budgets were, and then you break that out per student cost, I think that we are currently on par with everybody else. Now, given Claremont, you can't compare Claremont to, say, Kearsarge Regional. Right? I mean, the economic differences are there. So  but I, I agree we should look through the entire budget. But overall, you know, our per student cost, given our enrollment being 1613 was 19,000 394. Right.  And I just did what I did is I took it out and I averaged it out for that. And then you're looking at other schools that have about 1600 enrollment, two,  in particular Laconia, 1700, and they're about 19,290. So right in the same ballpark. But Conway is about $2,000 more, and they're at 1664. So I agree we should go through this exercise. I think we should look at it. But big picture wise, I don't think we're that far off.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And I appreciate that. But my my attitude, I don't like to compare for one big reason. One, because Claremont's Claremont and Andy and I had a conversation and the

[R9470-76] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: And the thing is just.
TEXT> Trying to maintain that's the they can afford a 15, $18,000 per student cost. We can't. It's just it's just like, I want to drive a Lexus. I can't afford a Lexus like my neighbor can. It is what it is. That's to me, that's the 800 pounds you're preparing our.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Education to Alexis here.

[R9470-85] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: 75 out of a 31 million. But but yeah, the 800,000 that wasn't a cut. But that was a teacher. You know cutting a request is not look to but. Sort of.
TEXT> Add on to what what Alex is saying. I mean Acosta cost to educate a student isn't going to be magically any less here. You know, it costs the same.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Lexus costs anywhere you in the state, you go to buy at the same cost, usually $1,002.

[R9470-157] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: looking at, We have a pre-K director now. And then I look at Page Jarvis and she's getting a stipend for five grand as a pre-K coordinator. So I'm wondering if that's an artifact from before we head the pre-K director. And it's in there.
TEXT> I, I do know that they put in for stipends during summertime programs,  because I've talked to other people who are paras in the area who have who are supposed to actually get this $5,000.  Stipend to work with children throughout the summer. Okay. So it's highly likely that that's her stipend of what she was doing for  I believe it's theater.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think.

[R9470-309] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: if it's been folded in. And I look at the back of a document that we got and it mentions the single sheet, page 62, and it mentions adult ed transfer to adulthood, transfer out of adult ed. And I don't know what that means.
TEXT> Transfer to adult is children that didn't make it in the  know.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's money.

[R9470-337] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: some we can figure out now and put on the list. But like those are so specific to what you're thinking, Frank. I think it makes more sense for you just to document that. Send it to Brian, and then you put them all together.
TEXT> And so what? I guess what I'm what I'm seeing here is what I, what you've all heard me say is, is crepe. And so we've got additional positions that we didn't have, and we don't have more kids, we don't have more staff, but we have more positions.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Which is spreading money out.

[R9470-431] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So the same goes for if they spent over what they have budgeted. Right.
TEXT> So the next one is a couple lines. Now do you want to keep going with this. Or is it that  to adult high school tuition. So I'm assuming that is the Claremont taxpayer paying paying for students who have failed a class to make up that class and adult debt? That's what I'm going to take a while. Guests and say that's a.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Guest.

[R9470-450] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: with teenage teenagers in them. So what that is 2500 represents new fixtures for, I think, two classrooms every year. And there are a lot of classrooms at Stevens High School. And so, in my tenure there, that's that's a legitimate, realistic number to be.
TEXT> There is  sound really crazy, but isn't that something that the tech center kids could be working on refurbishing?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I don't know.

[R9470-457] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: I mean, you're not going to have.
TEXT> Kids, I guess I'm I'm not really. I'm assuming that. Why couldn't they be refurbished?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's all metal. It's metal. That's. Yeah.

[R9470-489] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: Destruction.
TEXT> I'm gonna I'm going to continue. So page 31 student activities fees. I'd like to know what that is. It's Stevens High School. The 3000.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I need an account number.

[R9470-496] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: And I'm not sure why why that's being absorbed now by.
TEXT> Yeah. Because I know I'm, I'm used to student activities being money that's raised by fundraising and put in a separate account, not in the budget.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I have concerns about that. Why is that in the budget and not part of seeing your fundraising? Okay.

[R9470-775] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Thank you.
TEXT> Can I I'm just going to make a general statement about what you just said, Chris. Okay. And maybe this will make the question that we want to ask easier. In my mind, every para that we have  or all every special ed para that we have not related services para. Should be what they do, should be part of some students IEP. Yeah.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Because they're required to be there because of the IEP by law.

[R9470-789] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's that's the question.
TEXT> I think that's a very good question because I'm not sure how it works here, but I know I was originally in when I got into the I was originally hired as a para, as an IT part time para. I had nothing to do with students or naivety,  but I fell under the para and the Paris Union at the time, so that is a very good question. Well, not sure the answer is yes to all.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Of Brian just asked the real question, Brian. The question Brian just asked is if if we've got a para and they're not doing something that's Medicaid reimbursable, do we

[R9470-800] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And you see like for example.
TEXT> If if you've got a child that  you know.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Doesn't qualify for.

[R9470-812] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah. No, not all of our powers are necessarily dealing specifically with special ed, which is then reimbursable.
TEXT> But are they all the only with students? That's the question I have. That's my curiosity.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Question. Yes. And you'll find that there I know it Maple there some classrooms that could use a para that don't have them.

