[R94585-493] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: Wow. And I can see you're lying. Or than I am.
TEXT> Doesn't hurt my feelings. I'm not that well. I am that old. However, I think there's. I do think there is value in getting yourself ready for school. It is their job. And it is in particular in high school. You're preparing students to get themselves out of bed, give themselves 30 minutes to get their face like you're going to work. And, and so I, I don't hate that. I don't hate that. I, I think it's character building and, and even for kids that are in really tough situations there, there's tough situation isn't an end. When they're out of high school. They have to have their adaptive. They have to adapt to this, you know, expectation while they're in high school to make it in life. Otherwise we're doing a disservice. That's what I think.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: That was also another issue here. The other issue was the dress code was passed in 2005. So if you weren't going to enforce it and hats and hoodies were

[R94585-506] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: Yeah, right.
TEXT> So one of the things I plan to talk to staff about on Opening day, because I really think they need it, is an explanation of how I apply current discipline law, because there's an understanding across public education these days that current discipline law means kids can't be disciplined. Doesn't mean that, right? Right. In fact, I believe we are about to see a pendulum swing toward a lot more structure in schools because people have had enough. And would it be the worst thing in the world to be on the front edge of that? I would actually argue that the high school I just left is already on the front edge of that, much tighter than most schools, and I haven't been dragged in the court. Okay.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think the dress code should be relative for the staff.

[R94585-512] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: The, the discipline code is impossible to read. I mean, it's it's too much for me.
TEXT> What, what matters to me about discipline that I think teachers need to understand. And I do think they need to hear this here. So I might actually do this on opening. I usually on opening day you're supposed to make them laugh, cry, and feel good, but we might have too much to do for that. So,  The first ten days that a student is excluded from the learning environment, I don't care if it's in school or out of school suspension. If they're excluded, they're excluded. Those first ten days, a principal has the authority to assess. After that, only the superintendent can assess a longer term suspension then. But what I do is I tell principals, once a student has 7 or 8 days of in or out of school suspension, I want to know notify Tammy and me. Tammy will set a meeting with that child and the parent or guardian with me. And at that meeting, I explained to them that after ten days by the principal, I can assess another ten days. And once we reach the 20th day total, my 10th day, the next thing we do is schedule an expulsion hearing before the school board. And although I've never had to ask a school board to expel a student for general disrespect, I will if I have to.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And usually what's happened in my experience is either things get better. Not always. Sometimes the family will decide, you know what, there's a charter school or v lax or

[R94585-513] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: reach the 20th day total, my 10th day, the next thing we do is schedule an expulsion hearing before the school board. And although I've never had to ask a school board to expel a student for general disrespect, I will if I have to.
TEXT> And usually what's happened in my experience is either things get better. Not always. Sometimes the family will decide, you know what, there's a charter school or v lax or something else. And if that sounds like not a great result, it's really a double edged sword because the faculty will say that's a good result for them. For a kid who is incorrigible in trouble all the time, I'm not saying if you don't homeschool, I'm going to throw you out of school. I'm explaining to them this is how the law works, but making sure they know I'm willing to do it. I think that's the key.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And you know what? It's often missing from that conversation is loss. Learning time for the other 20 souls.

[R94585-517] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: That's the reason. So. Right.
TEXT> I, I the best principals I ever had did the following for me. And it was rare that I had to send a kid out. But if I asked for a kid to be removed, they took them. It wasn't go have some crackers and laugh a joke, right? Because it was it was a punitive measure to it. So yeah, it's for the other kids that you're really taking those disciplinary actions.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yeah, that's a good point.

[R94585-525] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: On discipline. This will be the last comment I made. The discipline also negatively affects academics because if they're out for ten days, the parents are getting punished. The homework is not getting done. They come back, they expect, yeah, they're behind.
TEXT> And  that's not what we're not looking for kids to be thrown out of school. I learned in school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: There is and I mean this is what happens. I have a concern about kids who, you know, they don't comply with the rules. And so the parents say, oh,

[R94585-532] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: way. And so my guess is that's going to eliminate some of the bullying and some of the nonsense. We won't see it this year. We won't see it next year. But I would say within a couple of cycles we'll start to see improvements.
TEXT> That might. Yeah. And that might be some of the reason why kids get pulled out and homeschooled. But I think that is that continues to be a problem. Whatever the reason is that parents choose homeschooling, the reentry into the public school is is problematic.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: These are tough problems for all schools. But if if I'm not worried about you, but if spiritually, the Claremont School Board is willing to let us experiment with a

[R94585-555] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: I agree.
TEXT> All right. Around each other.  Student services, which includes Medicaid reimbursement ideas upstairs right now. I want to bring her back down here. I'm going to tell you,  I'm not asking. I'm telling you unless you stop me.  I have had the experience now where people arrive at this building and there's nobody sitting out here. It's horrible. I understand it's the kind of job nobody wants, but we pay people every two weeks. Absolutely. It's reasonable to ask them to do the work that we have done. I'm going to put somebody right there who also has other work, though, right? Who has a job. Right, but can sit there and do that job.  Student services splintered apart out of that space because people didn't like each other. I'm putting student services back in that space. I mean, look, some of those elements are gone now, so it doesn't matter anymore, right? Even the people involved,  like. Yeah, yeah, I can go back now. It's okay. Like it's fine.  So I've kind of got it already mapped out.  I'm trying to do the hiring first, some of which we'll talk about tonight, because I think it's done or it's in the process of being done.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Once I have people lined up to come in, what I don't want to do is move and then move again and then move again. Right. I want to have,

[R94585-681] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: Again.
TEXT> Please practice without structure repeats confusion. So I used to see this with people teaching writing to kids. It's often said that the more we write, the better you'll get. No, you're going to keep getting the same the same errors. So, for example, if we're asking kids to respond to a prompt state testing. Generally we're asking kids to come up with an idea, organize it, structure a paragraph connector thinking, and write it all clearly all at the same time. Right. And the human mind does not work that way for young learners. It just doesn't. So here's what here's where that translate to state tests and our scores. Students are going to stare at that page, write one often weak sentence, skip the important parts and just shut down and call it a day. Instead, we should be just using a clear, repeatable process. This is how you build a sentence. This is a subject and predicate, and this is how we diagram a sentence. And then we build to a paragraph and then we, you know, you just remove all that guesswork from kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Give them a system a learning system.

[R94585-684] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes.
TEXT> A way to do it. Instead of this overreliance on practice and, and  you you'll see this in assessment a lot to where we will assess the assess. But if you're assessing the same skill ten times you're doing it nine times too many for that kid. If they've already proven they can divide fractions, why are you continuing to hammer them with that. Right. So just a lot of things that come to mind. I'm not going to bore you with all the rest. I just I get into this stuff.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's important.

[R94585-718] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: Let's start by gutting their central office.
TEXT> So I think there's three that kind of tying together. How do we do it?  How to measure academic achievement of students and data should drive any change. Those three core.  And then  I have my last one is me integration of tech courses with traditional academic courses. Yeah I, I  would like for the vision for the district is to think outside the box. And we have limited resources. So we have to be really crafty and cool how we do stuff. And this may be stupid, but I always thought like, if we could introduce tech stuff on some level at the elementary school level, you could engage in particular. I know this is sexist, but young boys with a lot of energy, like if we can help them do math and like basic skills and that kind of stuff and get them hands on, burn off a lot of energy and get them like kids thinking about tech really, really early.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So it's interesting. I know you're talking about the earlier grades, but right now in this conversation at the middle school, we don't have a bunch of certified math teachers.

[R94585-719] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Heather Whitney: boys with a lot of energy, like if we can help them do math and like basic skills and that kind of stuff and get them hands on, burn off a lot of energy and get them like kids thinking about tech really, really early.
TEXT> So it's interesting. I know you're talking about the earlier grades, but right now in this conversation at the middle school, we don't have a bunch of certified math teachers. One of the things we're talking about is what we want to do outdoor education. We want kids out hiking and learning about nature. How do we teach math out there? Orienteering is a way to teach math right there. Drawing a map of the school grounds, pacing it out, learning units of measure. We can cover math standards in a lot of ways, and we're at a position right now where we need to. We have we just it's our.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Only.

[R94585-722] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Heather Whitney: Way.
TEXT> We might find, you know, that outcomes do follow. If kids are more engaged, it's hard for them not to learn more.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Should I move on? I want you guys tell me what to do.

[R94585-725] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> This is the area that I split off from Student services. When I showed you a draft org chart a long time ago. Not a lot. Well, you know, a few months.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Ago.

[R94585-745] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do you see if hum bug equal treatment? Is that you?
TEXT> So,  I was reported to DC once, and  my kid was on the lam for three weeks before they even called me. So if I was seriously abusing my kid, he'd be floating in the river by the time they got in touch with me.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So you got reported? Yes.

[R94585-755] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: No.
TEXT> But I understand the Navy. Will you have somewhere around 50 kids?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Yeah. 50 kids. It's free. They'll pay for it. Department of defense will pay for it.

[R94585-756] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: But I understand the Navy. Will you have somewhere around 50 kids?
TEXT> Yeah. 50 kids. It's free. They'll pay for it. Department of defense will pay for it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It'd be.

[R94585-759] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: Great if you have 50.
TEXT> Kids all alone. Is it? I think.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do you think there may be a proximity limitation that if one area.

[R94585-764] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: Naval Reserve stations.
TEXT> I did I did a I chaired a necessity senior accreditation visit at Manchester West. And one of the things that impressed me there is there to see program which the which gets paid for by the federal government. Do they have enough kids.?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Manchester West, who.

[R94585-776] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: Here.
TEXT> Just a stupid, include  include these folks in in school suspension planning and management for challenging kids. So that's something I would like to see that we.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So. Yes.

[R94585-782] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: it. We're not saying Johnny will never cause you to evacuate your classroom, but when you come back in a month and it's happened three times in four weeks, and it was happening three times each week, we're going to say, this might be working.
TEXT> Keep doing it. So it takes some real by in with staff. They have to believe you will stick to it, that you'll follow your own step by step procedure. What this does for a district is there's a there's a what I call a tier one column, a tier two column and a tier three column. The bottom of the tier three column is an out of district placement. The purpose of all this is to not short circuit the thing and start placing kids out of district the day after. You don't know what to do with them, which look, if I'm the one evacuating my classroom three times a week and I can talk Brian, the principal into sending this kid out of district, I'll take it. I'm going to try to convince you to do it right. And that's just normal for people. So this is really important. Teachers are starving for this here. They've been sold it before. It hasn't been implemented. It hasn't lasted. It hasn't worked. So this is important.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The segregation will help. But what I was really trying to get at is that I don't want to waste of time. So I think a lot of these in

[R94585-783] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: to try to convince you to do it right. And that's just normal for people. So this is really important. Teachers are starving for this here. They've been sold it before. It hasn't been implemented. It hasn't lasted. It hasn't worked. So this is important.
TEXT> The segregation will help. But what I was really trying to get at is that I don't want to waste of time. So I think a lot of these in school suspensions, we waste a lot of kids time when we could be using it as productive time. And now that we've got the segregated out, they should be integrated into the daily life of school. I think we've had,  who've we had from externally from West Central Services, kind of the, the liaison.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So have any of you ever heard of the SASS grant, the South grant safe and sports schools. This was a competitive yes, a competitive grant. We got it. We

[R94585-799] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: Well, that's okay, but educational neglect is very difficult.
TEXT> It's easier to school, I guess. Let me say let me say this to school and truancy, because I think we have an issue with a lot of truancy in our district, and that affects our ADM, which affects our ability to get money from the state, which negatively impacts every student. I agree. So I guess what I'm saying is that we have to do minimum. We have to make sure kids come to school and we have to be really aggressive having kids in the building. Number one, we saw what happened during Covid when kids are home, kids that are not in school in in troubled households are at risk of a lot of bad things. So  we need to have kids in school so they can access services. And it does negatively impact the entire district. When we have truancy of ten, 15, 20% and we lose.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: See all these things are tying together.

[R94585-805] Unidentified | Distinct sparse voice (5 segments, homeschool-law remarks); one of tho | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: There's a problem.
TEXT> There's a potential problem pushing too hard to aggressively. They'll pull their kids out of school and homeschool.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And when nothing.

[R94585-813] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: You don't even you don't have to tell the school. You don't have to do anything. But.
TEXT> So let's become the place for kids want to come, right?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So, speaking of truancy, don't know if anyone's noticed since the truancy officer resigned. I haven't talked to you about replacing the truancy officer. I don't plan to. Until I

[R94585-814] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: So let's become the place for kids want to come, right?
TEXT> So, speaking of truancy, don't know if anyone's noticed since the truancy officer resigned. I haven't talked to you about replacing the truancy officer. I don't plan to. Until I can understand what the goal of the position is going to be and what data we're going to use to measure our effectiveness. Because the data prior to his resignation, the data the gentleman had shared with me was how many home visits he had made, how many of those homes he didn't find anybody at, which was about 50% of them, and how many miles he had put on his car that the district had reimbursed at the IRS rate. All good data. But my question is, did more kids come to school when we had a truancy officer doing all this than before? And I never got that. And, you know, I just got here. So we'll take a look back and see. But why would we spend a full time salary and more importantly, benefits on a full time position if we can't tell that it's making a difference?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And are the kids not coming? Why aren't the kids coming to school, right? What what what is the reason?

[R94585-817] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: And having somebody run around and check on them might not address that. There might be another way. No, I'm not saying we won't use the money. Maybe we'll use the money, but let's use it for something. We think that could address the problem.
TEXT> So, you know, sometimes we were too judgmental about the reasons why kids don't come to school. And I shared this with you. I'll share it with the group. So when I was a junior in high school, I was taking voting at the Essex Regional Center. We my mother was a single parent, two sisters. We were about to be evicted from the projects. Now it takes a lot of work to get evicted from low income housing. So I stopped going to school, found a job at Grossman's Lumber, and I was out of school three days. And James Warnock, who was the head of the program, finally got Ahold of me at the house and convinced me not to quit school and go to work, while admirable, was not the right thing to do. So it's easy to to come up with all these reasons. But sometimes if you dig a little deeper, there may be something you know, right?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I did, I did there, and he asked visit to the last time they got accredited CTE center for technology. Yeah.

[R94585-822] Unidentified | Distinct sparse voice (5 segments, homeschool-law remarks); one of tho | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right. Yeah. For the family.
TEXT> We do have a responsibility to follow up though, for kids that are showing up.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Yeah. We're. So my guidance to staff for now, based on this new law is to not behave any differently with regards to homeschoolers. We're we're still going to do

[R94585-858] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right.
TEXT> Like the teachers know my pay scale tops out at you know, if I've got all the education and all the experience, $73,000 this year is the very highest salary available. But there's somebody working 185 days, making 20,000 more than me. Because even though they're working with kids just like I do all day, they don't happen to be covered by my agreement, and they got a good deal from someone in the central office. It's not good. It's very bad.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Agreed? Yeah.

[R5405-8] Brian (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: person to speak, and we have 30 minutes for the the time for presenting. So if anybody would like to speak, just come and say your name and the ward that you represent or that you come from, and then you're welcome to speak. Brian.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Brian Ward two. I stand before you tonight simply to speak about one coach. Speak about something more larger than that. Trust. Over the past year, this community has endured one of the most difficult periods in history of our school district. We watch as financial problems surfaced, difficult decisions were made, and confidence in district leadership was shaken. Many believe we finally began to move beyond that chapter. We believe that believe that. Saw six had learned that transparency, communication, and accountability are not optional. They're essential. Yet today, we find ourselves here again. The emails released through the Right to Know process paint a troubling picture for me. Coach Jason Stone repeatedly asked for answers. He requested meetings. He asked for clarification. He even quested a neutral administrator he present so concerns could be discussed openly and professionally. Instead of receiving a transparent process, the record reflects the decision that was made primarily based primarily on hiring a full time teacher candidate who also wished to coach the superintendent. Mr. Broderick, he's speaking to you explicitly, explicitly states and speaking to all of us that he was not evaluating coach. Coach Stone's performance had made no judgments about his coaching ability or commitment, and was instead making a staffing decision that that should concern every coach, every volunteer, every parent, and every taxpayer. If was not the issue, then where was the process? If evaluations are not reviewed, if students and parents feedbacks were not considered, and if of service and program development carried no meaningful weight, what standards governed this decision? The superintendent and his self acknowledged in a performance in a performance review, he would normally look at the athletic director of parent surveys, student feedback and other data, but then stated those factors did not matter because this was not a performance review. I also understand that the athletic director was not was reportedly not involved in or aware of the decision making process. If that is accurate, it raises serious questions about whether normal administrative protocols for followed. The athletic director is responsible for overseeing athletic programs and evaluating coaches. Excluding the process from a decision of this magnitude represent a significant departure from the proliferation leadership of the community.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I have to cut you off. Thank you.

[R5405-12] Ray Bernard | Public commenter, Ward 1 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Is there anyone else who would like to speak tonight?
TEXT> Ray Bernard, Ward one. Some of the issues I had were already addressed. I just want to give a little history. 55 years of Steven soccer for boys spent 55 years. In that time, I believe there have been 11 coaches who have held the head coaching position, two of which have had 14 years of coaching each. If if Jason coach had coached would or for the person who spoke or coached the first 14 years, we probably have 2 or 3 more state championships,  not a middle of the road kind of coach, not a middle road kind of coach, but he has the tactical and technical knowledge that it takes to do that job. He loves his kids. He teaches his kids about civic duty, pride, school pride and takes care of all that and just keeps on muddling through. And I don't understand how this this decision could have been made so blindly without giving him his due 14 years as a coach, and not so much as a meeting face to face. Just a you're done after 14 years. That's disrespectful. Whether you do, whether you were going to get rid of him or not, he deserved the right to be seen. You have no problem visiting his new hire in your office. You had no problem searching out a teaching job at the middle school for the new hire, but you could not give him the due of explaining and letting him have the opportunity to do the same. That is disrespectful. In my 77 years on this earth, and as long as I could vote, I have never stood before this board to cause any kind of dissent at all. This is a travesty. I have a list, but I'm not going to do it because a lot of it's personal and I'm not going to get involved with that. But this man deserves more than what he's been given, and he is damn well more than a middle of the road coach. And there is no reason for this man to have been let go. Still got time, Carol? Yeah. The only other thing I have is that it's my understanding, is that the new hire was approached to be a soccer coach first, not in the office, but approach to be a soccer coach first. And when he came into the office, we tried to find him a job. His first job fell through. I was in the office when I heard that the first opportunity didn't work out. He didn't muster the job, so we had to go out and find him, obviously a second job, find something somewhere for him to do. He's not the hero you make him out to be. He didn't. You? Your words, not mine. He didn't come. He didn't come to the school and say, I want to save you and be a teacher, even though he's not certified. He came. We found a coaching position that he wanted, okay I apologize.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you, thank you.

[R5405-25] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Michael Campo: But it's still it's on revenue when you also factor in that for consecutive years, the school district put up use a fund balance that they didn't have substantial use of.
TEXT> I think that all right. Can I help you? So federal grants, allocations  from the Department of Education in New Hampshire to school districts are largely most programs based at least partially on the percentage of students or number of students receiving free and reduced price lunch and the percentage or number of students who qualify for special education IEPs. Because Claremont's demographics are such that we have generally higher percentages of kids who qualify in those kinds of programs. We do have higher than many districts total grant allocation entitlement. So we are talking about a couple million dollars a year. It's not insignificant at all.
NEXT> Michael Campo: So and in processing the grants fund, our team has to actually go to the State of New Hampshire's website to get what was submitted and what was reimbursed. The

[R5405-30] Michael Campo | Auditor, Plodzik & Sanderson (announced as 'Michael Campo of Nick Sand | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: you're making you're making comments about the 22 and 23, but because of your experience of doing the audits in the past, you know that this has been happening with audits prior to these two.
TEXT> Correct. I believe I want to say I came in probably around 2013. That was 2016. Okay. So I know it was around the time my third child was born. That was my gift was, that was already behind an audit. So this has been kind of my the back end of my career mission to get these things caught up.  Some of the challenges have been substantial turnover in your staff, whether it's super tenant, whether it's the business office employees. Some of his been politically correct, less than talented individuals providing the records. I know one of the questions that's been posed to me is, how do we have a deficit cash balance, and nobody knows it. The business office was holding on to checks. They were writing checks and holding on to them. So and without cash reconciliations for months on end and no verification from the third party treasurer to the general ledger detail that goes on on scene.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And just just to clarify that for the public another way, having seen that in my prayer life, people have a having a checking account and I can look on

[R5405-65] Michael Campo | Auditor, Plodzik & Sanderson (announced as 'Michael Campo of Nick Sand | 2026-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: and the business administrator, which we did rely upon for guidance. So in the absence of having trust in our our administrative team, who do we turn to? Should we be calling the New Hampshire business administrators and asking them to review our finance policies?
TEXT> You certainly could. Okay. You can also work with the School Board Association as well, which that would be a good resource. Which we do in general, though, and I know I brought this up in previous meetings, my personal theory is that you should be looking at your policies as a board, every significant financial policy, once every three years. Your term is three years. You guys are supposed to be leading by setting the tone at the top. You do that through setting policies and procedures. The best way to do that is to know what they are. I've had some districts where I've gone in and ask, you know, where's your ethics policy? I don't think we have one. Then I went to the website and see if they do have one. We do a policies. No not effective. If the people who are setting them at the top don't know what they are. Right. So I mean, if you look at another example was the student activity funds that was adopted in 2005. If you think about the way that we collect money today versus 22,005, it's substantially different. And it's also your highest risk area because it lives outside of the central ISIS and it doesn't have a lot of oversight. Right. There's certainly mechanisms where if you're looking at that policy, you could say, we want you to send a reconciliation over to the district office once a month. You need to have the  clear policies on can they purchase debit cards? Can they use a credit card themselves? Right. Venmo, PayPal. These are different areas where they're really high risk because they don't live within your your infrastructure. They live outside. So in terms of policies, those are the places I would turn. I think also making sure that you have a a finance person who is maintaining their educational requirements. This is ever changing.  I know myself when I started there, Steve told me, it's like as soon as I think I know it all, I'm out of here. He's like, I'm done. And that stood with me. I mean, I've been doing it for 22, 23 years now. And it's, you know, you're learning something new with this industry every single day, certainly with new state legislation, by the way.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Some of so to that point, just just so the community knows that in 22 we did institute a policy review process, and we did turn to the New Hampshire

[R5405-101] Michael Campo | Auditor, Plodzik & Sanderson (announced as 'Michael Campo of Nick Sand | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Because we get the manifest, it tells us what it's being dispersed for. How does that aid the board, or how can we review them in a way that's meaningful, other than just looking at them and saying, yep, we're we see that this is
TEXT> I mean, my recommendation would be as you go through them, do the vendors make sense? Do the right. If you have reimbursements, I always encourage people to actually pull that, pull the documentation and look at it. It doesn't make sense. One of your purchasing policies or procedures should be that you discourage the reimbursement.  You guys have different ways to pay vendors. You don't necessarily need a teacher or an administrator to go out and buy something, right? Right. Because once they do, now you're in the position of, do we make them eat that or are we going to reimburse it? It takes away some of your control.  Also, orders are necessary. Absolutely. It's bypassing the purchase order prop policy. And then honestly, the other concern you have is if they've got a credit card with rewards, are they getting an undue benefit in their position as a government. So that's what I would be looking for. And what's the, protecting student privacy. So that has been an argument that has been made is that, and Mr. Madden, I think you had an experience with that  with special Ed regarding the manifests regarding the manifest, is that items that were related to student activities could have identifiers in it, and we were ten times what I would expect to see. So I think in that case I would ask to see more documentation. And maybe that's you don't sign off on that manifest until you see it. I understand, and I'm sensitive to privacy laws. At the same point, you have an obligation to make sure the money is being spent in the correct way. So they should be able to special ed. So that's nonsense. It's a process, but they should still be able to provide you with enough information for you to feel comfortable about that disbursement. Okay. That would be a good one to pull. And maybe you say, all right, this check isn't going out today. I'll be in the district office this week. And I want to see the documentation. You can retract names as you need to or what the case might be, but I think that that's if I were in your seat, I would want to see more information than just.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: It's special that I. Sorry, I can't see more than that. Is there any reason, reason that special ed doesn't have to comply with the normal rules and purchase orders

[R5405-147] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: he will catch us up and we will do the work. We will get it done. Thank you for coming tonight. Thank you. You.
TEXT> Before my clothes. Only because I know, Mike might want to go home. Yeah. Tonight, in my report, the first item is a follow up on this discussion with Mr. Campos. So if we can do it while he's here, sure. He might have something to add. So our job, your job, if I may, is to tell me which I'm going to act like you've done so. Good job. To work with what business office exists and start developing corrective actions. There's a section in the audit reports about the corrective action process. I took an excerpt of that and reprinted it in my report. We do that. We develop corrective actions. We bring them to you. One of them will include a purchasing procedure that I understand you would have liked me to just email out to everybody on July 1st and say, this is the rule, follow it, don't fail.  But truth is, the truth is that if I email rules to 200 and something employees and say follow them from now on, they will not because they won't understand them. They won't have an opportunity to ask questions. They they won't really be able to own it until we've had a chance to work with them. And one of the fascinating things about public school districts during July and August is that there aren't that many of us around, so I need the people in order to implement these processes. We're already doing some of it. I've been responding to emails from some staff misunderstanding in some ways. Some things like for example, why can't we purchase supplies from Amazon? Actually, we can purchase supplies from Amazon if we use the district's Amazon business account with a purchase order that's been approved in the business office.  What we may not do  is jump on our computers at 11:00 at night, buy stuff for our classroom, pay for it with our credit card, and show up for the receipt the next day. Because the person who does that, who's, by the way, is a good person trying to do good things for kids in a classroom. Right? This is not a bad person trying to do the wrong thing. These are good people trying to do a good job, not realizing, because we need the time to train them, that there's a budget line associated with those supply purchases. And once it's spent, if we keep spending against it, that money has to come from somewhere else.  Or I get to say, enjoy your new supplies that you just bought. They're not the districts, right? Which I don't want to say, but I've been in that situation before,  so. Well, Mike's still here. Yes. One of the first corrective actions you will see relates to purchasing. It is the  number one way to start cleaning up all of your record keeping in a controlling spending is number one. That doesn't mean limiting spending. It means authorizing and keeping track of spending. I've already had the experience here during the spring, so not during the years you're talking about. But now, essentially almost now, where I was getting to know people, meeting with people and asking questions like how? Where in the budget is the money to pay for this? And having people who either were administrators or who were not certified administrators still working in administrative roles tell me, nobody's ever told me I was supposed to think about that or I don't know,  or, oh, I'm not allowed to look at the budget and all sorts of other answers. I heard all of those things here. I'm not making any of that up. Those are all bad answers. It is my job and I am going to do it, Mr. Madden and everybody, to make sure that people understand how this budget works, that these lines mean something, and that we implement processes, procedures that everybody has to follow in order to encumber funds against these budget lines. I wanted Mike to be here for this, just in case he wanted to weigh in, because I think he's actually seen my procedural guide to purchasing. Members of the policy committee have already seen some of the associated policies were already at the beginning of the process of updating what needs to be updated. We're doing sort of a comparison right now with your existing policies. That procedural guide to purchasing was developed to help a district that had just experienced a terrible financial crisis. Not on the scale of this one, but actually all of the systems are the same. It absolutely translates and it'll work. But we have people who need to learn how to do it  and then learn. Unfortunately, what it feels like sometimes as we actually require the rules to be followed. It's not always pleasant, but it's what has to be done to get control of the biggest area of exposure.
NEXT> Michael Campo: I think with policies, what it does is it creates consistency. If it's available appropriately, you can interchange the pieces and the roadmap is there, right. You are going to

[R5405-175] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment (announced as 'Miss K | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Very good. Okay. I think I'm fine. We move on to curriculum instruction and assessment. And Miss Kennedy.
TEXT> Sure. Good evening. Just to give an update about our debt allocations for this fiscal year. As part of my role as the grant manager, we will make sure we're working on everything. Going back to right now, I'm in charge of grants from 24, 25, 25, 26 and 2627. So we have until September 30th to make sure all of our 2425 grants are in order and everything ready. And November 14th is our deadline to make sure all of your seats and everything is set there with the Department of Education moving forward. 2526 we have until September of next year. And right now, we're in the process of doing a consolidated grant application to make it a little more streamlined. So we try to make sure this year we didn't  leave any money on the table from the last four, 2425. But at the same time, we also want to make sure we can be a little more thoughtful in our approach. And so, we ask for an extension. We're given that to come up with activities that are a little bit more  mindful of the, staffing that we're doing and bigger ticket pieces, whether it's, you know, interventionists for title one as opposed to right now, there are some ways that we're spending it to just make sure we're finishing some part of the grant aspects, but ensuring that we use up all of our allocations. And so we're trying to be more thoughtful and a comprehensive approach. And so if you notice there, it talks about all the different types of grants that we have. And we can look at a way to come together and talk about our programing that covers all of these and getting staffing to cover them. In making sure that what is allowable, we've looked at and then, being mindful of not doing, you know, $1,000 a year, $1,000 there, you know, there's some that like a staffing for title one could be $1 million. And that's one activity and one thing that's written. And so that has been in there. So don't get me wrong, but we can do that across a lot of grants too. So we want to make sure we're not giving money back, that we're making sure we use the money that we've been given, and making sure we also have all of the documentation and everything that's ready. So in there, is your list of grants. And so the Ida pre-K one that you will not get the information about that until September, but Perkins Tech Center grant, we have $94,851.72 available towards the use of support for the tech center, the staff, the safe and supportive grants, the Miss Porter. We have $262,308.48. We're working on a variety of activities to include some staffing that will support our schools.  Title one that's for students. Schools that have support, low income students. That's our district right now. We have $1,000,104, 604 cents. Excuse me, excuse me. $1,104,604.39. And again, primarily, most of that goes towards staffing to support students. Title two A and that's particularly about professional development for teachers principals. And there's $212,877.42 for that for this coming fiscal year. Title for a and that's a right of activities, support, well-rounded education. It can be safe and healthy schools. It can also come, cover some aspects of music and arts in different areas. And that's $141,311.40. And so for a total of $1,815,953.41. So as of right now, before we get to Ida, pre-K allotment. And so we have been working, you'll see at the top there it talks about,  continue. Excuse me, comprehensive school improvements. We had some work. So bluff had been identified as a school of need of support. When the students split up to the two different schools, 60% of the grant money went towards Maple Avenue to support the bluff students there. And 40% went to dinner to support the bluff students that went there. So that grant money is following the students that were in a school that was designated need of comprehensive support. So that is still in the  process right now of working on that for 24, 25 and then into 2526. So that is not something right now that's allocated towards 2627. So those students have been absorbed by the new schools and that will look different for the funding sources. So this is what we're working on right now. I have a couple people there helping me support this. We were working closely with the business office, trying to make sure we have everything covered for procurement and for grant receipts and things too. So I will give you my assurance that this is a big priority. Doctor Broderick and I talked about my, goals and responsibilities as well. And this is one of the biggest ones to make sure we've got everything covered for grants from the past the years that we are still able to allocate money.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So, for example, I see under the Perkins grant, that 46% of it comes in July. Correct. So you're going to verify in August that that 46 $43,043,326 actually shows

[R5405-192] Don Lavalette | School Board Member | 2026-08-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I will say we have all of them, but we do have a lot of texts that go with this.
TEXT> Okay. Next, I appreciated your little summary about standards, but can we put a link to the I can standards in a minute so parents can actually see the I can absolutely. And then you sort of address one of the others. My concern is, you know, we get brand new teachers in and, you know, here it is. Just teach it. So so I'm hoping that internally within the grade structure that we have those even if they're not official PLCs. But I hope we're offering support for those new teachers to to take care of that. And I'm glad to hear you mention that there is, again, people have heard me say we need to divorce ourselves from that term, fidelity, because if you don't give teachers the ability to slow down instruction, to take care of gaps and student instruction and student competencies, then you're just wasting everybody's time. So I was glad to hear you say that. That's it. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Sure. Those were your six questions. Yeah. Comment. Oh Mr. Madden

[R5405-195] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment (announced as 'Miss K | 2026-08-05
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: yes I'd like to know first about the money.
TEXT> So right now I have actually called tomorrow with great minds with wit and wisdom. So right now we are going through all of the workbooks and the components, because the trade books are the trade books. We have many of them that go along with it. There's some workbooks, but there's also some open source components to it, which means you can go online and print off some things we're not trying to blow out or copying budget at the same time, but the workbooks have the ability to take the one that's already printed as a workbook and then also be able to go on because maybe you want to add to it. A lot of the times, some of it you can just make sure you might have students that are visually impaired or something like that that don't need, you know, five questions on a page and things. When you go to the open source piece, you can get it and you can print it out and maybe just print it. So it's only 1 or 2 questions on a page for a student. So it's a kind of hybrid. So right now we're assessing everything that we have. We think we have enough in our arsenal between  extras that we had had from bluff when the students dispersed to other schools. We have some things. We've gone into bluff in the last several days, making sure we've gotten everything that's there. So we don't anticipate putting any kind of a big order in. The only thing we're looking at is potentially, again, through a grant is piloting for grades six and seven. And so that after the call tomorrow hopefully know more about that and what could look like. And then if so, how we could put that in a grant still. And that's still very possible. How much  for right now we're we haven't gotten the quote and things yet. So whatever magnitude I think before you know it's been spent for $1 million. But it's not anything like that before because we have most of the components of it. So it would be just a workbook. You know, usually there are about $25 a student to supplement workbooks. There's a few different modules, workbooks and things. So that's why we didn't get to.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Please, please. Sure. Order of magnitude plus or -200,000 around there.

[R5405-201] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: that there are New Hampshire competencies that are expected to be achieved to get this. So far, so good. Yes. Okay. You are right on the track. Well, I'm not I'm always getting different information from you to why are you shaking your head now?
TEXT> Because curriculum design starts with state standards, not with an outcome that some students will achieve. State standards by grade level approved by the state Board of Education.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So I thought that's what I said.

[R5405-207] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: The only difference there is the total credits, I believe. I think one is 27 and one is 24.
TEXT> Yeah, I think I think you're talking about different things. The the diploma with distinction. The different levels are course load, right, that the high school student will take and the number of credits they're earning. That's one which is, which is separate from the curriculum. Right. Okay. So back up.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Ideally we're making it possible that every student, theoretically, if they did the work and had the brains, they could get the New Hampshire Scholars endorsement. Right. That's what we

[R5405-208] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2026-08-05
PREV> Tim Broadrick: talking about different things. The the diploma with distinction. The different levels are course load, right, that the high school student will take and the number of credits they're earning. That's one which is, which is separate from the curriculum. Right. Okay. So back up.
TEXT> Ideally we're making it possible that every student, theoretically, if they did the work and had the brains, they could get  the New Hampshire Scholars endorsement. Right. That's what we have to provide. Okay. Then you take it down a notch. All right. Just take one discipline. You take math. They have to take four years of math. I believe in high school.   And we're offering one, two, three, four, five, six. And what are the competencies involved in that?  When you take it down, what do you need coming in and what do you need going out. And you just work that all the way back down to kindergarten. Okay. I have Kerry shaking her head up and down and I'm getting no reaction from the superintendent now.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Let Don jump in.

[R5405-244] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Unidentified board member: Are we circling back to fix the the front end problem?
TEXT> So, yeah. So great question. Thank you. By moving the last pay of the year later into June, it fixes the problem for next year. Now you've got a negotiation coming up. So let's not talk about that inappropriately in public because we shouldn't. But a lot of contracts have language about these things. And there's an opportunity to talk about it again. So on transportation, I am once again just bringing good news all over the place. Amy Savage, our new HR director who's been on the job since the 1st of July, and I have been meeting with Transportation Director Pam Malay. We have created, the beginning of what I'll call a Wagenheim analysis, which means we found out how many people work in transportation and what they do. We figured out what the daily schedule is, how many busses are running, how many vans are doing trips. We do. We do a couple of different things in transportation. And then we're starting to look carefully at how many hours are required to perform each function. If we learn that maybe the way we're doing things isn't as efficient as it could be. We will come to you, and we will work with employees to see what we can do about some of those issues. And I'm trying not to get too deep into the weeds until we've figured more of it out to be. Just to be blunt. As of last week, here's interesting news has been deemed unsafe  by, the company that the district uses for maintenance of its vehicles. And should not be used. Cannot be used this year. I gave you the letter from s g reads towing and truck. It's trucks. It's in your behind my report in your packet as a copy of that letter. Again this is a public document. I put it on the website. The bus that was involved in the incident with the tree in Newbury, that bus is totaled. So we have an insurance claim in with Prime X to replace that bus. It was pretty new, but not brand new. Depreciation exists with school busses just like it does with all of our cars. So when you drive it off the lot, it's not worth as much as it was that you paid for it. Right. So we are waiting for Prime X to tell us how much we get back for that total vehicle toward the purchase of a new one. So we will not be buying anything until I've come to you. You will approve that purchase if there is one. And then after I wrote this report, we had an incident in the bus yard where we backed a bus  up against a pretty solid object and did more than $1,000 worth of damage. $1,000 is the deductible we have against damage under our insurance policy. So we have a third bus out with an insurance claim that will cost us $1,000, and it can be repaired. All of this is relevant because it is fifth and the school year is coming up in a month, and we need busses to provide transportation for kids. So I am expecting the bus out for repair to be repaired in time. The bus that was in the accident that needs to be replaced. I have not called Prime X yet to put on pressure, but if I have to, I will. I think we're going to need to try to get that thing replaced. And then the one that is no longer usable prompted me to ask for the attached. You also have this, and this is also posted publicly. Inventory of vehicles. It turns out  that we have. We hold two busses, full sized busses out for trips. That's mostly athletics, sometimes other extracurriculars or field trips and as spares. Whether we can eat essentially one bus and have one spare. I don't know yet, but my first thought was that if I posed this as a question, you would suggest that we should try to do that. So that's what I'm going to figure out if we can do before I come back to you on the is it the 19th of August next time?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So talk more about this. So right now we have three busses not able to be used a month from school starting. It'll be fine I'm sure. And one is

[R5405-250] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: But Matt was working on was the transportation of homeless. Yep. And I know Scott Maple was supposed to be one of those possible solutions to ameliorate. So I believe it's probably still 500 a day. It might be more. It's. That doesn't seem reasonable.
TEXT> It might be much more, but I'm not telling you that it is. At the end of tonight's meeting, you will have decided whether or not to authorize, me to fill a new position that I talked to you about before, where we separate student services into a dedicated, certified special ed administrator role, and then a role that covers their over here counseling, civil rights, EMTs,  a director of student support services, counseling, those sorts of things. McKinney Vento administration falls under that job description. I've given you a draft of that job description in tonight's packet, and we will start reporting to you on the impact of the federal McKinney Vento Law. If you want to talk about unfunded mandates, put this one high on the list. The federal homeless student law compels school districts to absorb some significant classes. You're not wrong. Do you have. We have moved to the second page of the agenda. And the third page of my report on fiscal 26, grant reporting. I think, was primarily covered in Kerry's report in terms of what our grant allocations are for the coming year. However, I want to talk about, we hired a new employee who started last Monday. So she's been on the job a week and a half now. We also have a certified experienced business administrator who is widely across the state, recognized as an expert in New Hampshire's grant management processes, working with her part time for training purposes so we can have someone in-house thoroughly qualified to help grant writing on the front end so that it will be easier to do. Grant claiming on the back end. It's going well so far. She is the one who will ultimately provide me with data for a report I can bring to you with an accurate history of Claremont's experience, claiming and not claiming it's federal grant funds.  Next page hiring and reopening. If you were here and miss WMUR tonight, all our schools are opening on time. You know,  I led it, led the news at 4:00, according to my mother. And, yes, she texted me. So in the personnel report tonight, you're going to see that we've hired a significant number of staff since July 1st. The number is 44, and that's against four resignations. That's across all schools. So we've had what I would call a reasonably successful hiring experience this summer. We still have some openings. We need a couple of assistant principals. We need a few teachers. I offered jobs to two special ed certified educators today. They're not included in these numbers because we're not nominating them and haven't appointed anybody. Those are in process. So that continues to happen. But we have enough staff to open the schools. Check your sources, please. So as I mentioned two weeks ago, Michelle at the tech Center has had a great hiring season. We're in really good shape at the last meeting. We I spent some of your time making you listen to me talk about how vocational technical teachers with trade experience, but not college experience can get certified. And Michelle interviewed a plumber the next morning who I think was there as a result of the meeting we had two weeks ago. And he was, onboarded, I think yesterday I saw him. So we are staffed at the tech. Just our deeds, a music teacher. That's an unexpected change since two weeks ago. A result of a resignation. I wrote this. I'm going to say it. I'm not mad. None of this is about emotion. When somebody signs a contract to teach to return, an existing employee signs a contract to return to the district on the first of each month. During the summer, we pay the district's share of their health premiums. When they resigned before the first day of school, they have fulfilled 0% of the contract they signed. I can't get that money back. So I talked about this a little bit with the importance of thinking carefully about the pay schedule. This exists also. So again, in negotiations you can talk about anything you want. Overall though, things are going reasonably well at Disney as you might expect. And Maple Avenue last month I raised the alert that we needed for General Ledger. I'm sorry for general education classroom teachers for that school. Dave hired three within the following week. So last, I meant to text him tonight. I walked by him today and didn't ask. But last I knew, he was looking for one. Which is still not where we want to be, but it's a heck of a lot better than four, and we have a month to go. Every school. By the way, I'm going to reiterate this has openings for certified special ed teachers. Every school, including the high school, which I will joke around about, Mike doesn't have any problems. Every school, including the high school, has openings for certified special ed teachers. I plan to bring you a special ed staffing plan for the year at an upcoming meeting. I've already got a note to do that on tonight's agenda. At the middle school, Nicole announced the other day that she has hired or she has hired enough people to get up to a total of 24 certified or certification eligible teachers. I'm going to talk about that terminology more in a moment. Those people are already under contract or are in process of being hired for the next year. That's there are 11 other people working at the school. This isn't the whole staff. So I'm not counting a school counselor. I'm not counting the special ed teachers. There's a program called camp at the middle school, a subset classroom. It's fully staffed. More staffed than it was last year. Actually, at this point, I'm not counting any of that. I'm talking about the people who kids on a six period schedule, or whatever it is, will go to classrooms with  or other spaces where they're learning. I talked to weeks ago  about what the bottom line bare minimum number would be and what a more acceptable number would be. 24 is the more acceptable range. 28 would be pretty cool and 32 would be awesome. So we still have openings. We will still interview. Nicole can still hire. She also needs an assistant principal, as does Dave  at Maple. So we're not done. Not everything is perfect, but 40 new staff in the last six weeks. Five weeks? It's not exactly terrible either. At the high school, Mike doesn't have any problems. Like I said, that's a little bit of a joke. He's looking for a health teacher. And health education is a graduation requirement under State of New Hampshire standards regulations. So we do need to have a health teacher. We can we can figure it out as we go if we need to. But we're going to need to find a health teacher question. That's correct. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified board member: Are we going to be able to provide year round science, social studies and mathematics, or are we going to have to be extraordinarily creative?

[R5405-252] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Unidentified board member: Are we going to be able to provide year round science, social studies and mathematics, or are we going to have to be extraordinarily creative?
TEXT> So we're going to have to be creative, maybe not extraordinarily.  I think after today, it's not on this report. We might have a third, certified math teacher coming in. So if if you look down this list by subject and you see three or a greater number, we can do it. We can get by. It's not ideal, but we can do it. And I'm talking about when I say we can do it. I'm never referring to a class size of 30 or 35 kids. To me, that's not doing it 20 to 25. This is a you have policy. You should have policy about this sort of thing. I have a personal threshold, a personal tolerance. 20 to 25 kids is more than enough, and a few fewer than 20 is pretty great. If you really want them to be able to learn. And you want teachers to be able to differentiate and do a great job, look, there might be a teacher in the room. So these aren't ideal numbers. We're not done. But I think, yes, I think we're going to be okay. We're also asking for some creativity, but I think that we can temper that at this point with a little more assurance that we've made significant strides, given the numbers in the middle school as well.
NEXT> Unidentified board member: It looks like we will be at a 10 to 1 adult to student ratio,

[R5405-253] Unidentified board member | School Board Member (voice not attributable from text) | 2026-08-05
PREV> Tim Broadrick: think, yes, I think we're going to be okay. We're also asking for some creativity, but I think that we can temper that at this point with a little more assurance that we've made significant strides, given the numbers in the middle school as well.
TEXT> It looks like we will be at a 10 to 1 adult to student ratio,
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: so that may be true. I get nervous, I don't think I understand what you're doing, talking from safety standpoint. And the state by the way, reports that number, right.

[R5405-254] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Unidentified board member: It looks like we will be at a 10 to 1 adult to student ratio,
TEXT> so that may be true. I get nervous, I don't think I understand what you're doing, talking from safety standpoint. And the state by the way, reports that number, right. The state will report your student teacher ratio and they'll kill every tall person in the building classroom.
NEXT> Unidentified board member: Yeah. It's not it's not the it's the safety number. And so I guess why I'm mentioning it is because I think that number was higher.

[R5405-267] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-08-05
PREV> Tim Broadrick: I thought you just wanted a general sense of where where we were at.
TEXT> Okay, let's let's have an indication from the board. Does the board generally accept this schedule? Is are  there is there any problem with going ahead and negotiating with with SRA, given the schedule? That's the from board members. I didn't see any issue any of Bill. Right. Okay okay. So generally there is consensus. So let's go. It just want the younger kids see it off the bus. All right. And your motion is not growing. Yep  okay. The next is the recovery plan update the follow up to the goal setting meeting for the school.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So you may have noticed I'm flying solo this week without Tammy to produce your binders and everything. So my responsibility from last Wednesday was to digitize the work you

[R5405-316] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Questions? Comments? Follow up? No. Any discussion on that?
TEXT> I'm going to move on to  a central office. Job description the director for curriculum, instruction and assessment. And the second one is the student wellness director. We owe it to everybody to provide clarity about what their roles are. So we started I started with the Director of Instruction and Assessment, whose job is significantly different than it was last year and who deserved, real clarity here, which I think we agree we've done. We've also set her goals for the coming year.  And then  I did the same. I'm asking you to allow me to fill the position of director of student wellness access and counseling. That's the mostly grant funded position that I already talked about tonight.  Any feedback on this process? I plan to do this with everybody. Everybody in the central office, everybody in an administration. We'll take that up in the next section. This is just information right here. Any questions for release on those.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Let's go through central office staffing. The business office. As you're updating us that the grants keeper started July 27th.

[R5405-322] Unidentified board member | School Board Member (voice not attributable from text) | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: When somebody make a motion,
TEXT> I make a motion to accept the creation of the position of director of student wellness access and counseling.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Second. Very good. Any discussion on that?

[R5405-324] Unidentified board member | School Board Member (voice not attributable from text) | 2026-08-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Second. Very good. Any discussion on that?
TEXT> I'd like to just speak for this because, when we had previous discussions about it, it became very clear. And I think we've had the experience that the co-mingling of the special education director in these kind of activities has conflated special education needs with behavior needs  with 504 needs. And I think this ultimately could, streamline our financial the way we're managing kids that do not need special education but need more push in services. And it has been getting special education by default.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Very good. Thank you madam.

[R5405-345] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> Unidentified board member: Stevens high school handbook was approved this June.
TEXT> So I hear September 2nd meeting, and I would do it under most circumstances. The language there was a whole there was a long discussion, and I thought we approved that handbook  quite a while ago. It's it's an annual process. So I will bring a school board. I know I was talked about because you agree with the language. I'll have to go back and look. I will direct principles to propose revisions to student parent handbooks.  Staff  handbooks. That's HR principals and then principals in the athletic director and athletic participation handbook annually for school board approval prior to the start of school here to allow them time to do that. I've listed it as a future item on September 2nd. I would prefer to be doing it August 19th, but September 2nd is what's realistic.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Last time I remember reviewing it, we did it under duress because it was so far and there was so much to do. I know that I requested an index

[R5405-347] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-05
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: requested an index and a glossary, because I was constantly being told things that were incorrect when I challenged it. They said it's in the book, so I had to read the book 6 or 8 times at least. The table of contents at least.
TEXT> Okay. Yeah, I have some pretty decent samples of student, parent, faculty, staff, and athletic handbooks that maybe they can use to help take a look at what they have. I would just want to give them a few weeks to do it, but in my world, a school board must review and approve these things annually prior to the start school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So Steven's High School Handbook is under other business.

[R16511-4] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, and grants (announce | 2026-07-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: recognitions tonight. I love it when we can have these moments of recognizing success. And we have two special individuals here tonight, and I. I believe Courtney Porter is going to tell us more and describe and introduce them. So, Courtney, please take the stand.
TEXT> Good evening everyone. I have the honor of getting to share with you two incredibly amazing SA six members who represented us at the 2026 Special Olympics in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Right now, I would like to ask Peyton Jones and Rachel Max. Come on up and join me while I talk about you. On this side. So this year on live TV, Peyton Jones won the 100 yard backstroke on ESPN. Yeah. Not to be outdone, Rachel came home with not one, not two, but three medals in bocce. I  one is the first place and to our second places. I think these. Two amazing saw six students and staff members are just an example of all the great things that are happening in Claremont right now.  And we have their family and friends with us here, and we're just really excited that you guys were able to bring home the gold declare.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. And and thank you, Rachel and Peyton. We're delighted to have both of you here. I love that you have your yellow shirts on that symbolize your gold

[R16511-65] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, and grants (opening  | 2026-07-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's all right. Okay. So let's go back to, the the curriculum instruction and assessment report. Carrie Kennedy, please.
TEXT> Good evening everyone. So my role now is the director of. Instruction. Assessment and grants. Tonight, I wanted to speak to you about some data and assessment first.  So we are in the process of beginning our star assessment. So a new interim assessment  that would begin typically at the beginning of the year, the middle of the year, at the end of the year.  So this assessment is from Renaissance.  It would be in lieu of the,  you know, the,  the NWA maps or the I ready assessment. So we'll be able to now teach reassess, reteach and continuous progress monitor over students. We will begin to work on this by the middle of the year, typically the winter assessment. So it's not quite ready to roll out yet.  We will work on Dibble and the other usual formative assessments at the beginning of the year, but just some more to come for folks, so there'll be information about what's happening. We are also looking at title one and title for a funding for this initiative,  but we want to look at the star assessment to give us a more well-rounded approach to what's happening with data, and then some more information about where we are with grants. So,  Bethan Drinker and I have been working closely. She had been the grants manager  for the last several months.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: She and I will be working in partnership to look at some of the grants and making sure that we're doing some drawdowns to bring in some more additional funding.

[R16511-68] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, and grants (announce | 2026-07-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Claremont Middle School is working on a revised curriculum plan and a schedule to bring instruction to life. We have many integrated areas for instruction and will be working closely with Nicole Boynton, Beth and Drinker and all the staff to bring this into action.
TEXT> We are excited to offer some PD.  I just sent out an email yesterday to folks. There's an opportunity for the summer coming up in the next week or two, and then throughout the rest of the summer.  And then as we continue through the year. So there'll be a lot of opportunities for professional development, and we hope some folks will be able to participate in that. And just finally, also, we have a lot of summer programing that's happening. So just a quick overview of some of the things that are  working on. We have summer boosts and that is for  elementary students right now it's located at the middle. School. For the summer. But for students who are just kind of want to maintain, the teachers have to recommend them.  They're not special education students. Who would just if they did not get a boost for this, they might be falling further behind. So we want to keep  managing that. So Rebecca Bailey and Kelly Young are overseeing that. We have a lot of staff  that I'll recognize soon.  Sharing out all the initiatives, particularly right now, focus on math and literacy.  They also are working on some field trips and to bring the learning to life. We do appreciate where the opera House and RECs department. To the pool.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: To make sure our students have some activities that go along with the learning. So we also have extended school year for special education students. That's easy. That is at

[R16511-70] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, and grants (announce | 2026-07-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: for leadership roles. And so it's a nice transition from fourth and fifth, fifth and sixth grades and their leaders from the elementary school to middle school. And this is also a grant funded program. And then we have credit recovery at the high school.
TEXT> And we appreciate maybe Ryan's is overseeing that with Doctor Harrington and making sure there's a variety of other staff members are involved. You can do all the recognitions next time  that are making sure the students  were at risk, who had grades that were not meeting standards  are continuing to boost their grades, bring them up and work individualize  with the teachers to make sure that they're getting what they need and bringing them right back to where they are. So hopefully when they're starting in the fall again,  they're where they need to be. Continue their grades.  So we have a variety of programs happening again, many grant funded.  So we appreciate that.  And then some locally funded for the special ed students. So any questions or comments?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I do have a few questions. So I see under number one a the star assessment, you were you're explained to us that were having a change in who will

[R16511-75] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-07-21
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: It is not anything even started yet for all official anythings. But we're looking into that.
TEXT> And then the overview of federal grants is just informing us, encouraging us, educating us of the various components of the, grants.  I wondered when I went, when I got to be number two on the second page,  where are you talking about professional development?  I would just encourage that. The professional development at some point encourages, training on documentation and accounting  procedures, how staff follows documentation of what they're doing and what grants that falls under, and making sure that they're,  complying with the documentation that we need for a follow up for audits. Just a number for  the summer boost the elementary. How many children are in that? Do you know.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: There were about 100 students or so. A little more than that that were recommended. I have to get the number. It varies each week. So there's sometimes okay students.

[R16511-76] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, and grants (announce | 2026-07-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: what they're doing and what grants that falls under, and making sure that they're, complying with the documentation that we need for a follow up for audits. Just a number for the summer boost the elementary. How many children are in that? Do you know.
TEXT> There were about 100 students or so. A little more than that that were recommended. I have to get the number. It varies each week. So there's sometimes okay students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And was that part of the budget or was that.

[R16511-266] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Tim Broadrick: is the concept, and first of all, some of the most important things I'm going to say tonight. You're going to hear my voice a lot tonight. I already have some of the most important things I want to say tonight are on this slide.
TEXT> What happened here was not the fault or the result of dysfunctional schools. Have the schools become dysfunctional? Okay, sure. Yes, absolutely. But some of that, maybe a lot of it has been the result of the financial crisis. It wasn't the cause. There isn't a teacher, a student or a building administrator in Claremont who had anything to do with causing these problems. I hope they're all watching tonight. This isn't their fault. Everything you're looking at is a crisis of district wide leadership and administration. I am not going to talk badly about people who used to work here. We work in a field where expertise has become extremely rare. It's harder than it's ever been to find people who really know how to do this job. So if you asked me to run 100 meter dash in 10s, I would fail. So please don't ask me to do that. It is really hard these days as a school board to be able to figure out who has the skills not just to be a superintendent, but to do all sorts of these jobs for me. My opinion I've been doing this a little bit.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: The three hardest things to find people to find are qualified superintendents, business administrators, and special ed directors. And guess what? You needed all three and we still need a

[R16511-269] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Tim Broadrick: is that I have a pretty decent idea of what the elements of that foundation are. And they're right here. There are nine of them. We might decide together. There are 10 or 8. That's okay. This is a first. I've been here for days.
TEXT> Right. But I think there are probably about nine days a superintendent, school board, set of roles and responsibilities to supervise everything we do. A special education department run by certified qualified administrators. What did I just say is one of the three hardest things to find in public education today? A I'm going to find another name for this someday, but a counseling multi-tiered systems of support. Civil rights, homeless student set of services. 20 years ago, I wouldn't have told you that this area was a separate block in the foundation of a school district. But as federal and state regulation have expanded and laws have changed, I'm convinced that it is. By the way, when I showed you a first draft of a central office organizational chart a couple of months ago, I included this right. Everything's going to be connected, I hope when it's not pointed out, should be facilities maintenance and capital planning. We don't even have a capital asset list that the  auditors can consider completely valid right now, let alone a five year capital plan that makes sense, that allows us to talk intelligently to the public and explain why we would really love for you to vote, to let us put $200,000 in the Capital reserve fund, so we can do the next thing that we need at one of the schools,  business administration.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I don't really think I need to talk about more, but I'm about to, so I'm going to move on for now. Curriculum instruction and assessment. It is one of

[R16511-315] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> People who are experienced  in licensed trades, who possess those licenses can become vocational teachers. However, she's also had a really good summer hiring. She's hired for new teachers. She's also been able to add a teacher for what's called an exploratory program. I understand maybe there's been one in the past. This is really important if you want to have a vibrant technical center. It also helps address a problem at the middle school by having an exploratory teacher, a dedicated exploratory teacher here for this center, eighth grade students or seventh and eighth grade students in some combination can come here for that exploratory experience as one of their unified arts or specials rotations in their schedule. One of the things you have been concerned about that we need to talk about that's coming next on this report is about staffing at the middle school and being able to have students safe, in reasonable, reasonable numbers,  supervised by teachers, and being taught  all the time. Having an exploratory teacher for the tech center actually also helps with that. So that's a real nice thing that we've been able to do with Michelle at the beginning of the summer. Moving on to the middle school, I think it's fair to say that the middle school represented everyone's biggest concern in terms of staffing. So we have 15 teachers returning and eight additional have been hired.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We also have a certified professional, not yet a certified school nurse, to work in the nurse's office, but we will have coverage in the nurse's office by qualified personnel.

[R16511-320] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> We have a new principal I'm really excited about. So I'm going to get to her actually. And just a second. That's all right. So so what that ignores though, is what if you have 24 teachers and 12 of them are certified in English and six are certified in fired and. Right. Well, that's not the case, but we would like more certified math teachers if we could have more certified math teachers. We have some other deficiencies. And here's where things get a little different. Again, some of you might not like this, but this is our reality. This is what happens in public education these days.  Content area certification is required at the high school level. To the extent we are giving high school credit to middle school students, which many districts do in eighth grade for algebra, for example, or for seventh and eighth grade foreign language, for example, which I understand we're not able to do right now. But I think we need to restore those things as soon as possible.  But beyond that, under New Hampshire rules, middle school is actually a lot like other elementary grades in terms of teacher certification and content. So what we have been talking about, and we're at the beginning, so we I want I want to bring you a report with the people actually involved in this, doing the work during August because they have work to do.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: But what we have begun to talk about is if there are writing standards in the state Department of Education, the state Board of Education, pardon me, approved curriculum standards

[R16511-327] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we anticipate having full year science social studies in math?
TEXT> So I think we need to talk about how we're going to integrate things, how we're going to cover the same. Our goal is we have to teach to all the standards. It doesn't matter theoretically. Technically, it doesn't matter whether the child is in your room or my room when they're covering each of those standards. You might be the math teacher, I might be the science teacher. But if I have them doing computation against the math standards, they are addressing the math standards.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So really what we need to hear about is how we're going to assess our capacity to meet the standards within this creative system.

[R16511-341] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: I think you're correct in making sure we address it when we tell when we explain what we're doing so that people understand what we expected to make sure that we accomplish. Yes, what we need to accomplish. Other questions comments on this report.
TEXT> So I have a little more okay. Sorry. We we thought that the middle school was going to be potentially the biggest issue. It's okay. I actually finished without a period at the end of this. So I guess we can go on all night. Sorry about that. I've got a sentence. Right.  I'll I'll complete that sentence. So just arts in good shape. Is hiring her final classroom teacher.  And negotiating with a student service coordinator, which is the role here that's similar to an assistant principal in the elementary school. The biggest challenge we're going to have going into September is at Maple.  Principal Irwin right now needs for classroom teachers. It is the 21st of July, so it is not time to panic yet. I will tell you when it's time and I will panic when it's time. But right now it's July 21st and we need for teachers. I am personally going to be a lot more focused on that for the next two weeks than what's going on at the middle school, because I feel like there's a plan there and people are energized and ready to start working, even though there's a lot of work to do, a lot of work to do.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: But I'm a little more concerned with working with Dave to figure out what things are going to look like there. So we have time. The the paragraph that doesn't

[R16511-372] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Why is it still close to still posted? We want to see who's out there. All right. Any other. Okay. I think that gets us to the 2020 627 school calendar.
TEXT> The only thing some people were probably interested, but they got to listen to me for an hour and a half. So this proposed calendar does a couple of important things. It brings the total scheduled days to 186. That's an important number. That is the number of days included in the SREA labor agreement. The teachers have agreed to work 186 days. Six of those days are professional development days under that agreement, and up to 180 hour days with students, you will remember that scheduling only 100 and 72.5 days last year, after four snow days, led to the schools not being open enough to meet state regulations. When I appeared in front of the state board to ask them to vote and grant Clermont a waiver  for last year's structured learning time, I promised them we won't do it again, so this calendar gets us going in that direction. It also adds three days in lieu of student days. So even though it totals 176, some of the additional student days we're going to use for staff to move into their new rooms and new buildings, which the staff at Maple and Dessner need this schedule. This calendar allows on the 24th, 25th, and 26th of August for all teachers to come to work and the teachers at Maple and Dessner to be moving in.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We've been talking about optional professional development. If you need help with power School, if you need help with frontline, if you with any of the systems that are in

[R16511-373] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Tim Broadrick: their new rooms and new buildings, which the staff at Maple and Dessner need this schedule. This calendar allows on the 24th, 25th, and 26th of August for all teachers to come to work and the teachers at Maple and Dessner to be moving in.
TEXT> We've been talking about optional professional development. If you need help with power School, if you need help with frontline, if you with any of the systems that are in place, we can make that available for people who want to drop in. But for those who need to move in, roll out the rugs, put the books on the shelves, all those sorts of things, they'll have that time to do those things the following day. Thursday the 27th, is the traditional opening day. Professional development day usually starts probably in the Stevens Auditorium with somebody talking. We'll see how it goes. And then the next day is a teacher workday. That's by contract. That's what you do. Every year, students come to school  on the first day, August 31st, which I believe is the first day you had already approved. You asked me the last time I saw you if revising and adding days to the calendar would change the first day of school, it does not. It probably changes the last day. So if you zip ahead, you'll see we have a PD day. It's technically called a PD day under the teachers agreement for parent teacher conferences in November.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That's in blue a PD day. So no school for students, but staff come in for professional development in March and then the last day of school. Schedule at this

[R16511-374] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Tim Broadrick: calendar would change the first day of school, it does not. It probably changes the last day. So if you zip ahead, you'll see we have a PD day. It's technically called a PD day under the teachers agreement for parent teacher conferences in November.
TEXT> That's in blue a PD day. So no school for students, but staff come in for professional development in March and then the last day of school. Schedule at this point for the 21st of June, with a teacher workday the following day that is also  established by the SREA agreement. So that's the last work day for teachers schooling. The full number of days in the agreement and in regulation means that when we have a few snow days, we might we're likely to be okay, meaning we may not have to make them up. So the way I like to do this is if I come to you in March or the beginning of April, and estimate when the last day of school is going to be, it'll snow the next day. So instead, I would like to come to you in late April, and if you don't have a meeting in late April, in early May, because then I can promise it once, know the next day and tell you we've done our calculations. We either do or don't need to make up snow days. Here's when the last day of school can be, and you will vote to say that is the last day of school, and then we can tell everybody.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Right back.

[R16511-474] Loren Howard | School Board Member (Policy Committee Chair; NHSBA delegate) | 2026-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: It'll be a lot of problems being hamstrung. Right.
TEXT> Kind of what it comes down to is has the potential to hurt their kids. I know they're not our responsibility at this point, but.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They come to us.

[R16511-483] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (started 7/1/26; ASR renders the name 'Broderick | 2026-07-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: We have one dissension. It passes. Okay. The next issue, we have the disposition of Bluff School library books.
TEXT> So this just came up last week, Madam Chair.  I know I haven't been over to see, but the the principals have told me, you know, there's a whole library over there. Some the librarians, I think, have already been there, but there are still a lot of books at bluff. If some of our new teachers, especially teachers, setting up a classroom in elementary classroom for the first time, could go there and build their classroom libraries out of those resources, that might be nice. After we do that, if we could then donate books to community organizations, nonprofits, city departments that might be able to use them for children, that would kind of be our second request. And then the third request would be after both of those things has happened, have happened. If there are any books left, that at the annual Back to School festival, we set up a tent and we give them away.
NEXT> Noel (surname not stated): Great.

[R55327-8] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: their favorite teacher and was held in the highest regard by his colleagues. Mike Richmond was a remarkable educator and human being, and he will be missed beyond measure by the six staff, his students, everybody at Stevens High School in the entire Claremont community.
TEXT> Thank you that Michael Richmond died the couple of weeks ago.  A current staff member at Stevens High School and we thought was really important to acknowledge his his devotion to the Claremont schools and to children. So thank you very much for that.  Moving on to the consent agenda. Any changes to the agenda itself? Okay. I see no objection to where the desk is.  The approval of the meds from August 5th. Yes.
NEXT> Luke Diamond: I just thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a few, under superintendents report. Yep. Forensic audit signed in May. I'd like to have the name of the firm placed

[R55327-110] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: for the students. Along with that, they had Ashley Burdick, according to Jenna Gage, Amy Garland, Caitlin McCracken, Dana Ryder, Maggie Sergeant, and then also Lisa Alexis Hayes and Karen McCusker, Hannah Miller, and then Autumn Tibbetts. So we thank them all for their work.
TEXT> And so again, they were hosted at the middle school, but they were working with elementary school students.  So extended school year this year we were able to provide some more services  to students. Again, those are special education students, and they were able to continue the services that we need to provide to them. So we are pleased. This year for preschool, we have Christina Sanford helping us, Shelby Holmes, Cassandra Edwards, Brandy Scully, Andrea Benton, Kelly Provost, and Judy Wood. At the middle school, we had Sam Bailey and Sarah Scully. At the high school, we had Amy Rumble,  and then supporting from all of these services. Oh, sorry. Hold on one second. We had,  Jen Maynard, who was our speech pathologist. We have Deb Gray, who is an occupational therapy assistant. We had Deb Limoges  also in speech. Caitlin Point was in speech. And then Ronnie Jan, who's a nurse, and she helped support them this summer as well.  And then some pairs that helped work with us this summer was Rebecca Teboe. We had Lexie Grenier  and Caroline Hamilton to near Roman, Jessica Dyer, Pamela West, we had Mike Coachella, we had Jeanette Rourke, we had Malgorzata Davis,  Jessica Morrison, Natasha  Yard, Stephanie Kimball, Rachel Maxim, Karen Girardi, Shea, Emily Miller, Abby Wood, savanna Cloth, Brenda Belcher one second.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Tracy Osgood and Lori Mullen. And so they were able to really just keep the summer work going for our special education students. So when they come back in another

[R55327-111] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Lexie Grenier and Caroline Hamilton to near Roman, Jessica Dyer, Pamela West, we had Mike Coachella, we had Jeanette Rourke, we had Malgorzata Davis, Jessica Morrison, Natasha Yard, Stephanie Kimball, Rachel Maxim, Karen Girardi, Shea, Emily Miller, Abby Wood, savanna Cloth, Brenda Belcher one second.
TEXT> Tracy Osgood and Lori Mullen. And so they were able to really just keep the summer work going for our special education students. So when they come back in another week or so,  they will be ready to go and get caught up. So we also had a few people who are tutoring. So again, thank you to Judy Wood and Caitlin McCracken. Crystal Simons we did, get a little shout out to her. She was again involved with the bus situation that happened, but then also she did her red, white and red and blue camp that she does every year. And so those are the students that are coming in for a leadership role.  And she worked with Vicki Bono, and we really appreciate that work. They were here at the Tech Center for several weeks and they went on field trips.  Most of them were successful except for the bus accident, but they had a great time. They really learned a lot about just how to be leaders and how to really, you know, carry on into the middle school. And that was a big transition, part of the middle school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And again, the high school. We appreciate for the credit recovery. Sandra Hardin, Mimi Rimes, Rick Johnson, Leslie Peabody, Rebecca Van Duska, Hillary Walsh and then Doctor Harrington helped coordinate

[R55327-112] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: except for the bus accident, but they had a great time. They really learned a lot about just how to be leaders and how to really, you know, carry on into the middle school. And that was a big transition, part of the middle school.
TEXT> And again, the high school. We appreciate for the credit recovery. Sandra Hardin, Mimi Rimes, Rick Johnson, Leslie Peabody, Rebecca Van Duska, Hillary Walsh and then Doctor Harrington helped coordinate all of the high school staff to make sure the students were gaining their competencies to earn their course credit. So we appreciate that final push over the line there so that students could get the credits that they needed. And so we did also attach the student enrollment and it goes down by grade level. So we are right now at 1359 students total in the district.  And that was as of two days ago.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So questions.

[R55327-115] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Don Lavalette: Do you have just one okay. Cool.
TEXT> How does our total  student enrollment compare to last year's in the years before.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So and the the table that's in there we are actually up and it depends by grade level. And so it has by school at the bottom of it it

[R55327-116] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: How does our total student enrollment compare to last year's in the years before.
TEXT> So and the the table that's in there we are actually up and it depends by grade level. And so it has by school at the bottom of it it has there should be a grid  where it shows from last year to this year. So Disney  is up. We're down one student at Maple. But it's a little bit different configuration because now it's only third to fifth grade, whereas last year was  to five. So it's a little bit apples and oranges comparisons. But they're you know again increased in pre-K to to their down one student in 3 to 5. But again last year was K to five.  Middle school is up three students from last year. And then the high school is down one student from last year right now one total.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so if if the total enrollment is 1359, what was it a year ago?

[R55327-121] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Next meeting is fine with me. Sure.
TEXT> Thank you. This is where we ended. So we're down one student at the high school from where we ended last. You know, at the end of the year, last year. Mr..
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Thank you. Thank you for the detailed report. So remember, a lot of the things I say are just thoughts that come to me when reading. So I appreciated the

[R55327-122] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Thank you. This is where we ended. So we're down one student at the high school from where we ended last. You know, at the end of the year, last year. Mr..
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you for the detailed report. So remember, a lot of the things I say are just thoughts that come to me when reading. So I appreciated the PD plan, but I'm just going to read you what my thoughts were. Where is the time for curriculum introduction and acclimation for new teachers? That's the thing that worries me about young teachers, and we tend to pack their days full. And then they have students and they really haven't spent any time at all, some of them with particular like wit and wisdom. Right. So that was just a thought that came to mind. Sure.  And speaking of that last meeting, Mr. Madden had asked about funding for the program, and you said you had an upcoming call to find that out, and I didn't know if you had any update.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I did we did have a call. They're sending me some quotes and then they're breaking it up because some of it would be grant funded and some of its

[R55327-128] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: To to pay off earlier expenditures. Yes.
TEXT> And then under s y, can we get a census at some point, like how many kids participate in that? And I guess my question, the census goes back to credit recovery and the leadership. I'm just interested in knowing that,  and what is a partner.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Partner program?

[R55327-131] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Don Lavalette: Well, it just says partner.
TEXT> Oh. So we have a different part of the programs at the different levels. So the elementary particularly. So there's one that's behavior program. There's one that's like a life skills program.  And so there's two different programs and ones like a K to two program ones like grades 3 to 5 program. So it's again a little bit shifting next year just because of the alignment  changes. And so there's sub separate like small group  rooms for students to meet their special needs.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So are they different.

[R55327-208] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Unidentified: November.
TEXT> We get our first estimate of what next year's aid payments might look like. Around November.  I we have embargoed, meaning I'm not allowed to talk about it in public right until September. Numbers for fiscal 27. Now, I don't even know if I'm supposed to say that. And they become public on September 1st, but they can also change by September 1st. The reason we get it in the September, the reason we get it in embargoed form, is to make sure the data is right. We get to check and make sure that our ADM, that we submitted our end of year reports comes out and is correct that our free and reduced counts, that our numbers of students with with IEPs, students and special education that they match what we intended to submit and we certified just that. There have been no clerical errors along the way.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Which is that it's very important that we start talking about this now, and let everybody on the board know and everybody in the community know is that we're moving

[R55327-210] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-08-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: about this now, and let everybody on the board know and everybody in the community know is that we're moving into collective bargaining, you know, conversations. And we are going to be hitting a wall financially meaningful, with a very meaningful number moving into 28.
TEXT> On another front, I would just like to point out, as we're going into 27 budget, the differentiate aid, we can have some control of that. If we can identify students that need the aid and get them to sign the vouchers or not the vouchers, but.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Reduced lunch.

[R55327-215] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member (Capital Improvement Chair) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: And it's very important, especially at the beginning of the year when lots of parents and lots of families are asked to fill in lots of work at the beginning of the year. This is an extremely important form that needs to be completed. Bill.
TEXT> I don't know if I'm inferring too much from what you said,  but do we continue to give kids free food in their parents? Don't sign a thing, right?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's it's law, federal law.

[R55327-374] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Any explanation of why that's so.
TEXT> Too early for me to be able to explain? You mean you mean the change? Yeah, right. Too early for me to have a good explanation of that. But one of the things when we get to special education we'll talk about is I brought in a couple of certified special ed administrator consultants, and one of them is going to be looking at the Medicaid to Schools program specifically to figure out what's going on and what we can do better. The unfortunate. And again, we have an employee in the Dow building who is not responsible for anything that's not being done or any deficiency. She is doing the job she's been asked to do. Heidi Sprague is her name, works very hard and cares deeply about our success. What has been lacking is a certified administrator who understands the program to both direct her activities, but also take important messages. There are many times that Heidi can highlight something that needs to get back to certified staff, and that bridge doesn't exist, and it's not reasonable to ask her to do that herself, because I'm talking about things like deciding which social workers should be providing counseling to certain students. That is not a decision that an administrative assistant can make and then communicate to our social workers.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's something an administrator has to do. Now, as of a couple of weeks ago, Courtney Porter will do that with our social workers. They've already been communicating Courtney and

[R55327-379] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> 11 students in fiscal 22, 16 students in.
NEXT> Loren Howard: 23, 14.

[R55327-381] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Loren Howard: 23, 14.
TEXT> 17 and 13 students. So you have the total dollars and the number of students. It's very important when we have these conversations, that we keep this general enough that there's no way to identify the students, but it's also very important data to be aware of and to talk about the way special ed aid works. Do you want to go first?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Good. Just for the folks at home. So just to clarify. So the 13 children cost us over 2.6 million. That is correct. Thank you.

[R55327-382] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: when we have these conversations, that we keep this general enough that there's no way to identify the students, but it's also very important data to be aware of and to talk about the way special ed aid works. Do you want to go first?
TEXT> Good. Just for the folks at home. So just to clarify. So the 13 children cost us over 2.6 million. That is correct. Thank you.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Educating 13. Now there are more than 13 children. Correct. Being educated outside of the district. Correct. At a cost to the district. But these 13 met the threshold of

[R55327-383] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Don Lavalette: Good. Just for the folks at home. So just to clarify. So the 13 children cost us over 2.6 million. That is correct. Thank you.
TEXT> Educating 13. Now there are more than 13 children. Correct. Being educated outside of the district. Correct. At a cost to the district. But these 13 met the threshold of spending to qualify for the special ed aid program. So there's a difference between total number of students out of out of district, and those students whose out of district placements qualify us for special ed reimbursement.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And that that's a.

[R55327-411] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right.
TEXT> If if anyone didn't understand what the chair was just talking about  our threshold for reimbursement in the special education aid program is three times the previous year's average per pupil cost. Statewide, roughly $70,000 for fiscal 26. So the first for 13. So that's actually the reason I provided that number down there, the first $900,000.13 times 70. This is an estimate.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's not included.

[R55327-421] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: look at this chart, obviously, we have more than 13, 13 cases, right? 13 cases of special needs in the district. Last year we had more than 17 cases. These were just the catastrophic the the ones that were beyond the pale, if you will.
TEXT> This used to be called catastrophic a and the state changed the name. So now that we're at this point, there's one thing I want to say. I think I've already talked about this. I plan to talk about this a lot this year, because I think it's a growing issue in New Hampshire that we need to start paying attention to all over the state,  at least six students who are placed out of district from Claremont. Our IEP teams did not place.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yeah.

[R55327-423] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> Department of Health and Human Services employees and judges, family court judges placed them out of district and in some cases out of state. We still get these bills. And the typical defense. I hear of how that system works. I won't go into detail complaining about how that system works right now, but I'm going to be happy to another day. The typical defense of that system that I hear as well, you're only responsible for the first $70,000. If I were to working in your new castle, where there are 0 or 1 students engaged with the Department of Health and Human Services, that might feel good to me. But if I'm a taxpayer in Claremont, correct. Where there are many more proportionally students engaged in various kinds of interactions, whether they're juvenile delinquency or family protective or what's called episodes of treatment for for mental health issues. I'm a little more concerned about that. Oh, don't worry about it. You're only responsible for the first $70,000. If it's ten kids, that's $700,000 in tax bills.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's a really important point, because it is not our staff that's making those judgments. And we've gotten we've heard a lot of complaints about our staff, over. That. Over

[R55327-429] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (sentence continuation clipped into another clus | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: For the consideration of time. Let's let's move on to number six.
TEXT> So the SAP. Program, this is just an FYI. Again, I'm trying to kill you with a little transparency here. Some of you might know this. I just don't know.  Claremont has been participating in the SAP grant program for 11 years. This cost the district nothing and has been placing a counselor. And the third page here. The student Assistance program is an alcohol and drug education and prevention program designed to address risk behavior, introduced protective factors, and help students make positive choices and embrace a healthy lifestyle. The middle school and high school each have a  full time. I'm looking at one of the principals, a full time SAP counselor working in those schools, courtesy of this grant program. For 11 years this has been happening. I just don't know. I don't need you to do anything. I just think you should know about things like this. And I don't know if you ever have.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Number seven.

[R55327-433] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Let's go on to hiring.
TEXT> And there we are on hiring. So we're still ready to open it. It's a disappointment to lose a couple of people this late in the game only because, well, for more than one reason. First, we'd rather have them. But also, if we'd known earlier, we would have had all summer to look. And now we've been planning on having folks teaching classes, and it's awfully late to hear that. We don't know. The good news is,  and I know there are varying opinions about this, but our phone is continuing to ring off the hook. Last week I talked to two,  well-educated, experienced engineers thinking about making career changes. I met in person with one of the principals, with a woman who has her PhD and has taught at the college level, English language arts, but has found her most rewarding work to be with the younger kids and was talking about a career change to come into public education. There's another one waiting for me in my office. I don't even remember the detail right now. Somebody to talk to tomorrow. I think with a degree in computer science about maybe a career change into teaching. So and again, I know I talked about alternative pathways last meeting. I don't need to do it again tonight. But but we're we're getting some opportunities to hire staff and we still are.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So where are our deficits as we stand.

[R55327-504] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Loren Howard: Exactly. There could be other reasons. But in terms of the hostility of the statement, that's what could be debated. I look I said, I don't know if I read it today, but
TEXT> But I mean, this is why dress code can be a hot topic, right? Is these kind of things. And so students clothing and grooming must be clean and presentable as not to produce unpleasant odors.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So there's not a problem with that, is there?

[R55327-507] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Nicole Boynton: Well.
TEXT> What's Clayton presentable? Correct, correct. I know I had  I had shadow, you know, kids have little mustaches, not very clean, but you know, they're showing that they can grow them. So is that presentable or clean.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And then we also have students that don't have access to laundry.

[R55327-514] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Talks about grooming.
TEXT> And so I would say clothing and personal idols must be maintained in a manner that does not create health or safety safety hazards or materially interfere with learning environment  to make it broader. And then for the the the head earbuds and everything. Students may not use personal  headphones, earbuds or other personal audio devices during instructional time unless expressly permitted by a staff member or authorized through an accommodation or IEP plan. Head coverings and sunglasses may not be worn inside the school building except when permitted for religious, medical, safety, safety, instructional,  and other or other school authorized reasons. So I would tighten that up  and then tops must be must cover the chest, shoulders and back. I think you that can be also subjective. I would say tops must provide coverage of the chest back, torso as reasonably intended by the garment. Clothing may not exposed undergarments. And then when you're talking about midriff, I would not permit no midriff. But I know that there are shirts that are not tucked in. But a guideline could be shirts must meet the waistband with no skin showing when hands are held straight over their head, which is a common like if you can do this and you don't show your belly, then the shirts, fine.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So that's.

[R55327-523] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: So so.
TEXT> If you want to make a differentiation, I mean, I think this is why we're talking about it.  We're bringing these kind of topics. So,  so that's what I would say there. And then further like, short pants, like it says hang too low, can't rise too high. I don't know what that means. So I would say hems that drag on the floor creating a tripping hazard. Trench coats. I don't want trench coats in a school either. Or other heavy outer garments. Skirt hemlines must fall below the fingertips when arms and fingers hang straight down. So instead of saying two short and too long. I don't know if how like it can be argued. If I was a student, I'd be argued that's not too short.
NEXT> Loren Howard: I think the hang too low there is regarding, like somebody sagging their pants less than something dragging on the floor. So let's about the know about somebody who's like,

[R55327-527] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-08-19
PREV> Loren Howard: Exactly. That's exactly. Yeah.
TEXT> I think in there.  And then that there was not a requirement to have students have sneakers for PE. It was an expectation. So I would say it's a requirement because that's not safe to have kids in gym without sneakers. And then, you can even tighten that up a little bit more by saying that they have to be appropriate for the activity being conducted  and comply with applicable safety requirements for classes, laboratories. So like in some laboratory settings, you can't work with locks, your toes can't be open, so shouldn't be wearing sandals in a in a laboratory.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Crocs or Crocs.

[R55327-548] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Unidentified: I agree.
TEXT> Disciplinary decision by a principal may be appealed by a parent or guardian and student to me, and my decision may then be appealed to a school board.
NEXT> Loren Howard: That's all.

[R55327-573] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> So all I would add about the timely ness of this is there's no problem with revisiting this for a purpose. If there's a plan between now and then at your next meeting on September 2nd, which is the night you're going to have each school's student handbook for approval anyway, which is where this goes. Right? So if action weren't taken tonight and were taken then with some plan, I think it's three weeks in between this time. It's not necessarily I'm not encouraging that decision. This is a board decision. I don't think you are up against a deadline and therefore being forced to do something tonight.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. We have a motion on the table to approve this as presented. All those in favor, say aye or raise the hand, please. Are you going to raise your

[R55327-581] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-08-19
PREV> Unidentified: Vote.
TEXT> I would vote in favor, but it's a moot point. All right. So. So where we stand is this failed and the administration needs to go back and rework it and bring it. Now, I don't know our people comfortable. So. All right, let's talk about the mechanics. The student handbooks are going to come to the September 2nd meeting,  and that's when it will be distributed. What how would you like to handle, if you don't like the proposal that the administration comes up with?
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I don't want to be a dead horse, but this is what we go through every year. When I first got to the high school with my son, when he

[R55327-582] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member (Capital Improvement Chair) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right, let's talk about the mechanics. The student handbooks are going to come to the September 2nd meeting, and that's when it will be distributed. What how would you like to handle, if you don't like the proposal that the administration comes up with?
TEXT> I don't want to be a dead horse, but this is what we go through every year. When I first got to the high school with my son, when he was in the ninth grade, I had the parent student book and you had to program Guy, and it was two or possibly three  years out of date.  And I'm trying to navigate through the system and I'd say, look, your policy is this. He said. That's three years old, but it's yours. And now there shouldn't have been surprises, that it should have been done in April at the latest. I don't know how you put together the request for the high school classes when you don't even have the program guide put together.  All I'm saying is, I agree with Heather. We were trying to change the culture dramatically.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: All I'm trying to do is get a handbook for the school year.

[R55327-644] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: are going. Amending IEPs. Renewing or rewriting IEPs depending on changes in the students achievement and experience. Moving from one school to another. There's a reevaluation for every student with an IEP every three years, but there's an annual review that doesn't include an evaluation.
TEXT> Every year, the case management team would do those reviews and meetings that are focused on amendments to IEPs and IEP writing, but not the evaluation process. Again, it allows us to focus training and create consistency, hopefully, in how IEPs are being written, how those teams are selecting and recommending interventions for kids with similar kinds of disability profiles. We'd like to be consistent in that regard. And when you have all of case management and instruction spread over a big number of employees, it's harder to have consistency. The the folks in the middle here that are left from those two groups are the people in the schools focusing on teaching kids. They have to read the IEPs. They have to understand what's in there. They have to put them into action in in instruction every day. They have to interact with kids and provide specially designed instruction. And they have to provide progress notes,  reports to parents, report cards. They are the people who work with kids every day. Believe it or not. And I'm saying this a little bit sarcastically because this should make a lot of sense. This should ring true even if you have no background in special ed.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: There are people who would prefer to be working with kids all day and not going to meetings and writing IEPs. There are other people who enjoy that process. One

[R55327-645] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: report cards. They are the people who work with kids every day. Believe it or not. And I'm saying this a little bit sarcastically because this should make a lot of sense. This should ring true even if you have no background in special ed.
TEXT> There are people who would prefer to be working with kids all day and not going to meetings and writing IEPs. There are other people who enjoy that process. One of our possibilities here a leverage point, and I don't want to oversell this. We're doing this because it addresses a staffing need that we have.  Right. So I don't want to pretend that this is some kind of look, this is going to be great. This is the best thing we could ever do. I do think it's it helps address some problems that we have right now and gives us a chance for success in our current staffing situation. So in the presentation that you have in your binders and isn't yet because I finished it about an hour before the meeting started, but it'll be online as soon as we can get it online. It's a public document. There's a little bit more about what a core evaluation team does, some of the advantages. And look, there are disadvantages to this approach to let's just be honest about that. But again this is a decision  based on  how do we make the most of the situation we're in. Right. What's the best way to deploy the personnel and the resources we have available to us for the coming year?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: This is not a plan forever. It's not a plan for the future. But we could revisit it in the spring and we might find that it has gone well.

[R55327-648] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: I just if if you're having doubts about this approach, I want to go back. One of the things you may not realize is that even last year, two full time special ed case managers for the Claremont School District were not located in Claremont.
TEXT> They were working remotely. And I don't know if you knew that. We talked last week about maybe bringing in another one who's remote,  which we've done. So now there will be three. To me, that's an argument for this kind of a structure where those people should be doing evaluations and or case management on an integrated team with in-person staff and remote staff. But the people who are here should be paying attention to kids. So I think for our circumstances. This is the  this is new to staff. There are people watching on TV seeing this for the first time. You knowing the principals right now, I want to tell them it's going to be okay. And we're bringing in training and professional development and making plans to ease everybody into this way of thinking about special.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Out a district coordinator, be somebody that would have to be physically in our buildings to function.

[R55327-668] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Questions? Comments?
TEXT> Just a quick comment. I think with the evaluation team we could never quantify it, but I bet you we would. There's some relationship bias that we would eliminate. And by that I mean sometimes it's difficult to to cut the strings and, and graduate a child often. And so I think this is one part of that process that to help with that.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So the example I have always liked to use is when I take my car in for an oil change. And I asked the mechanic doing the oil change if

[R55327-669] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Don Lavalette: we would. There's some relationship bias that we would eliminate. And by that I mean sometimes it's difficult to to cut the strings and, and graduate a child often. And so I think this is one part of that process that to help with that.
TEXT> So the example I have always liked to use is when I take my car in for an oil change. And I asked the mechanic doing the oil change if I need brakes, there's a pretty good chance that I'm going to need brakes. Yeah, so if we have an evaluation team and a case management team that don't include the people who are then going to enjoy job security by having to provide the services, we have a chance to create some more objective views of what children's.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Services are really needed. If I if there is no other comments, I think we need to move on to special ed program approval by New Hampshire Department of Editor.

[R55327-672] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: been done includes. And it's you know, it's too bad Mike couldn't be here tonight, but that's okay. We can do this without him. He has drafted descriptions of two different programs to run within the existing budget, with the staff already employed at Stevens.
TEXT> This year,  one of them will be an approved Ed emotional disturbance program by the Department of Education. We are submitting for that program approval. The other one will be an alternative Pathways to Graduation program that is not a special education program.  They are allowed to share some staff, but they don't have to. They are allowed to share some space, but they won't necessarily. The approved Ed program will  be staffed by a certified special ed teacher who we hired this summer to do that job. The alternative pathway to graduation program is more about guidance, counseling, career planning. We did a lot of this work at my previous district on alternative pathways to graduation. Kids who are at risk of not finishing school in many cases need for more credits, some work experience, and a transition plan that doesn't necessarily require being in a school for 6.5 hours every day. Those credits may be able to be owned by taking two classes in the morning, then going to work, and at that job, with cooperation by an employer who fills out some paperwork for the school and evaluates the student's competencies in various areas, they can get some yellow extended learning opportunity credits under New Hampshire regulation and law for that work experience.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So that's just one example. Some students on alternative pathway plans to graduation will do a set program or formerly a GED or things like that. Typically we like to

[R55327-673] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: work, and at that job, with cooperation by an employer who fills out some paperwork for the school and evaluates the student's competencies in various areas, they can get some yellow extended learning opportunity credits under New Hampshire regulation and law for that work experience.
TEXT> So that's just one example. Some students on alternative pathway plans to graduation will do a set program or formerly a GED or things like that. Typically we like to see them earn credits. But in a program like this, we're talking about a small percentage of students. I came from a district that had a high school almost the same size as Stevens, 420, 250, 422. That's about where we are, right?  I think last year there were 20 students on these alternative education plans. If you don't have the specific policy that enables alternative education plans, it's easy to adopt. I can bring it to you and that allows the school counselor, then the principal and then the superintendent to approve a plan that the student and a parent or guardian, if the student is not 18, have agreed. Makes sense. That gets them the credits they need to graduate. I understood that there might be a question tonight about graduation requirements in New Hampshire. So just as the meeting was started, I emailed you all both the state minimum standards for high school graduation, which is a 20 credit requirement, and your current local policy on required graduation credits for high school.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So that's I sent it without reading it, but it's in your it's in your inboxes and that's all already public. The before somebody asks me to send it to

[R55327-675] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: So however, the concerns about this academy program came up. I can't speak to I'm sorry, but when that conversation started with the department, folks in the Bureau of Special Education realized, well, you didn't get any of your substantially separate programs approved this year.
TEXT> What's going on? And I started talking to them before I started working for you sometime in the spring about what's going to happen. So I think the DDR was being written around the same time I connected with the folks at the Bureau about this. We asked our consultant to start working on it, probably in June, and here we are. So we've met with the principals. We are working on making sure that the programs each have a defined purpose. One of the things that I observed about the document that asked the department to approve the 11 different programs is that some of them, even in the same school, serve the same needs. They were identified as serving the same needs. That doesn't necessarily make a lot of sense. If you have a program for students with autism, then it should be specific to the needs of students with autism. If you have a program to treat emotional disturbance, it should be more specific to to those disabilities. So there is a place on the form or on the data you submit to the department for these approvals, where you define the primary areas of disability that the program is designed to serve, and you need to submit one for any self-contained program in any school.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That's why there were so many, because out of all these schools, if Maple Desert and Bluff each had an autism program, that was three. So the other thing that

[R55327-686] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Other questions.
TEXT> And separate spaces is this current plan? Sorry, he did get back to me. Yeah. And he wrote the simple answer is no, which means there are probably going to be moments when kids. And that makes sense, right? Kids when they're doing the same things might do them together. And that's look, our goal is not to segregate kids with learning disabilities, right? Our goal is to have the most inclusive environments we can for students who require some extra support in various ways.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Let's move on to the. Thank you. To the police department request to place antenna on the middle school. There is a memorandum from Chief Wilmot in the packet. Thoughts?

[R55327-721] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> So there's a there's a little memo, about where we are in the business office and where we are with Student Services. I won't belabor it, but I've. I've revised these with Bob gonyea, Katy Bullock. So in the s a reporting to and through the people who report to me, we're looking for a business administrator at this point. And then in the educational programs, with the appointment of Brianne Edmonds moments ago as our out of district coordinator  and Courtney Porter a couple of weeks ago as our director of wellness access and counseling, we have a vacancy for a special ed director. These are the two hardest positions to fill in the central office after a superintendent. But it's two.  It's not five, so it's progress, and there's just still work to do. I also wanted to point out, which I think I did in my memo, and I included last year's sort of last revision from. The fall. Yeah, that this is fewer total staff, but the budget for this year included fewer total staff. So we're not saving a bunch of money against the budget, but we're within the budget. Did that make sense?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes. So we are within the budget.

[R55327-728] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-08-19
PREV> Don Lavalette: Okay, that that's what I said.
TEXT> With the student and parent handbooks. Yeah, that would be my intention. And I'll tell you what I'm responding to with that. The last dated copy of an athletic program handbook I could find in Claremont was from 20 1718,  and the one available on our website was undated, which tells me that it's hard to determine if there have been annual reviews.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And then under personnel management, evaluate all coaches in writing annually. Did you have a time frame where you wanted that done? So it's not all like I'm waiting the

[R58832-15] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's all.
TEXT> I care. Plan to be at the department with Mike Campeau. They'll bring in a because there are two ends of this. In January, the Department of Education releases a DO25 report to the public. That's where your per pupil spending number comes from. Right. Every year it takes them until January to finish their processing, confirmation, chase down stragglers, things like that. And get this data out to the public.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So what's the timestamp for that when.

[R58832-143] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay.
TEXT> Sorry about that. Sorry. Yep. Take a minute. All right. My last thing now. So, Revenues. We ostensibly not. There are tuition agreements or should be written tuition agreements between Claremont and some other school districts that have the ability to send students here. Either the business administrator or the finance director used to handle sending out invoices. Yeah. And collecting those revenues. So I am now working on figuring out if that's been done for the last two years, or the degree to which that's been happening for the last few years. That's a revenue issue.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So can we just run through the vacancies quickly? So I think there's a misperception that the only person we're missing in the business office.

[R58832-176] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: It's a it's a just the function. It's a it's a task task oriented.
TEXT> So we need we need somebody assigned to do a variety of administrative things in the business office. Somebody has to be the person who reviews. So. So we have somebody who manages our school lunch program, right. D Skinner does all of the, data processing for our free and reduced lunch program with USDA. That person can't also be the person who certifies the data. There needs to be a second person who reviews all the applications to make sure that we've appropriately determined which students are eligible. Things like that. The finance director has done that work in this office in the past. Now that we part of Bob's job, I, I had him last last week before I met with you. When I got all these tags I asked Bob to go through. I mean, he has a level of accounting expertise and knowledge that he can be a problem solver. I look at the next group of employees that would include Corey Stella, currently, and Katie Bullock, who's new doing grants. Their clerks or bookkeepers. And depending on their background on I use either term depending.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So you've got Corey or and.

[R58832-195] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tim Broadrick: you're not getting as many. You might not give them the same tuition deal. So if if a district I'm not saying Croydon has done this because I don't know yet. So I don't want to say something bad in a public meeting about Croydon.
TEXT> And it's none of this is personal anyway. But if it's the case that a district decided, oh, we're going to give more of a guarantee of attendance to say, for example, Kearsarge, than we're giving the Claremont, that should have been accompanied by a conversation with Claremont about, are you still going to honor this tuition rate? Are these still the terms under which we're willing to do this together? Well, because you might be getting five kids instead of 30 or I've made up.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Well, additionally, with unity coming out of the saw, that was an agreement with unity for their students to come to Claremont. And now that they're separated. Does that null

[R58832-198] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair / Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tim Broadrick: get bills out for fiscal 26. Right. Other districts are closing their books, getting their audience done, and submitting their 225 reports. Right. It's likely to get challenging pretty fast. So I'm in a little bit of a race against the clock with this. Okay.
TEXT> And the third question I have. So the other day Michelle Harrington said there was a student coming from sunup I think. And, and so I think that some of the, and Newport were part of the region ten agreement. And so I don't think that would be impacted, but that's a revenue source. And we would just want to make sure that that's.
NEXT> Tammy Cody: Yeah.

[R58832-200] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tammy Cody: Yeah.
TEXT> So, so districts under New Hampshire law must pay not may shall pay, vocational training. The only problem I've seen that can arise is if we have a building trades program, which we do. And a student from Claremont wanted to go to the building trades program in Concord, for example. We would have an argument in that.
NEXT> Tammy Cody: Case.

[R58832-204] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tammy Cody: Right.
TEXT> But if we have plumbing, we have plumbing. If a student from Fall Mountain wants to come take plumbing, which they.
NEXT> Tammy Cody: Get their.

[R58832-208] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tammy Cody: Right.
TEXT> It's not a question of do you have the money in your budget or not? They have to pay tuition for that. The good news is 75% of that tuition gets reimbursed by the state. The state provides great aid for vocational education. So a student coming here from some of the as long as the program doesn't duplicate something that's available where they would otherwise be going, we should.
NEXT> Tammy Cody: Be fine. Right.

[R58832-211] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right. And I can't even remember what it was. I think it was, but okay.
TEXT> The situation with the student. Right. We have a student coming from former state.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: All right. So? So the business office. So we need a business administrator. We've got a finance director of finance who's on the job and is competent. We have,

[R58832-224] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tammy Cody: So Tracy is the.
TEXT> Administrative assistant for student services. She will support special ed, which she's been doing for years. And Courtney Port.
NEXT> Tammy Cody: Heidi.

[R58832-226] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Tammy Cody: Heidi.
TEXT> Does Medicaid reimbursement, right. And she sends out bills currently to other districts for special ed services that students going here from other districts are receiving. Okay. But not for the base tuition. And yes, I've already gone. Well, maybe we could combine those things, but that's I'm still at the beginning of figuring out, you know, who's on first with us.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are we all set on, business office staff? Did that answer your question?

[R58832-272] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right?
TEXT> But again, you might be surprised how many people would think, well, what do you mean? I, I went and I bought decorations for the dance. And here's my receipt. Who are you? Oh, I'm this kid's father. Thanks for the donation. That eliminates the.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: The parentheses in one of our policies. That list, for instance, special ed. ET cetera. And apprentices may spend money. So that right there eliminates the. Yeah.

[R58832-317] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Word gets out that we're verifiable. Yeah, right.
TEXT> I have had some fun, interesting email conversations with some of our out of district schools when I. So I've asked Tracy Hanson, who's the administrative assistant for our out of district school. So students are placed out of district due to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Our special education needs. Okay. Yep.

[R58832-319] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting as business administrator) | 2026-08-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Our special education needs. Okay. Yep.
TEXT> And I've had Tracy because it's the beginning of a fiscal year. I need a purchase order, I need a contract, and I sign the contracts right now. Right. I'm signing every contract right now, which is not fun for everybody, but it's, I think, a good practice. And some of our special ed out of district schools have responded and said we don't issue contracts to school districts. And then I've been able to reply and say, if you wish to do business with the Claremont School District, you're going to have to issue a contract, and I'm going to have to be satisfied with its terms. I'll be happy to work with you. And now we're in the process of developing contracts with some of these out of district schools. What that means is they've just been sending us bills. Right? So how I mean, I'm sure that there were conversations and like where people are I mean, I would like to charitably imagine that there have been conversations and but how do how do I know how much money to encumber, right, for a student's tuition if I don't have anything in writing?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right.

[R1938-18] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (ASR: 'Michael Patron'/'Patrone') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: not a pretty meeting. So, had some time to reflect. I just wanted to mention that there are times during the meeting for citizens comments. During the opening and then at time of discussion in action items. At the last meeting, there is some quite.
TEXT> Some disturbances from the audience, from the public that are here to participate in those parts.  That I found that I could at that time ignore and kind of try to move on through the meeting, reflecting on that. That may not have been my best choice. I probably should have stopped and asked for order.  So moving forward, I expect that the people that are here from the public to be witness to our meeting, to participate at the times that is open, to participate, to be respectful and mindful that there's no calling out from the audience. They shouldn't be yelling comments and questions up to the board during the time of the meeting. We appreciate your feedback and your input and having you here at the meeting to be part of this. But this is a school board meeting that we need to keep the order. So I have that time to reflect. And I just wanted to,  to mention that tonight. So moving forward, we need to be respectful of that. I need to be probably tightening the ship up a little bit and steering us better. So that is my goal for myself.  I just wanted to mention that tonight, so. That said, we're under the student rep report.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: This winter program is continuing as well. Students were able to select from a variety of activities for four mornings of fun. Auditions for the play, A Tribute to Broadway,

[R1938-19] Hannah Petrin | Student representative to the school board (surname not spoken here; t | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: need to be respectful of that. I need to be probably tightening the ship up a little bit and steering us better. So that is my goal for myself. I just wanted to mention that tonight, so. That said, we're under the student rep report.
TEXT> This winter program is continuing as well. Students were able to select from a variety of activities for four mornings of fun. Auditions for the play, A Tribute to Broadway, will be held on February 13th for grades one and two, and February 4th for grades three through five. The 100th day of school is coming up and does not has a lot of fun activities planned. Maple is also starting the Winter Enrichment program. They also have a winter concert on February 22nd. Maple students also participated in the Ode to Milan play. Sports are going well at the middle school. The middle school is also participating in Respect Week, which is a statewide educational campaign on teen dating violence and sports are going well at the high school. The seniors just started auditions for the senior play, which will happen at the end of March, and the tech center is having a culinary lunch featuring a Taco Bell on February 10th at 1130 or 1230. Tickets are $8 and must be purchased in advance. February 22nd is the region ten meeting from 6 to 730 in the Goodwick Goodrich Community Room at the Tech Center on February 13th. Newport and Claremont Tech Centers are presenting to the ninth and 10th graders about career and technical education programs.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Any questions?

[R1938-24] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. No further questions or comments. All right. Thank you. Hannah. We're on to item number one under discussion action items. Which is the, Mr. Pratt is here to talk about, the varsity ice hockey. Is that. That was yours coming up.
TEXT> Evening, everyone. What you have in front of you is that each year. Students. So this agreement here would allow us to continue the hockey program at Stevens High School by lumping it in with mascot  and some other smaller schools that are in the same situation. By doing this, it allows us to keep  the hockey at the individual schools who don't have their own programs. And so that's that's the  what you have in front of you there.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So this essentially keeps our kids still our kids here in Claremont still playing hockey. It just needs our approval.

[R1938-42] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: but we estimate that about 15% would be elementary staff reduction of the million dollars, 25% at the secondary level, and shifting teachers to another budget to title one and title two would be about 20% in the behavioral assistance going to academic support specialists.
TEXT> That is,  supported by the Esser grant that we already have for for a year  with plans to move them into another,  sunset them out is another way that we would get the 40% remaining.  The that we tried to bullet  what we best  could put in, you know, in the amount of time we had to prepare it,  we would preserve the neighborhood schools, transportation would be able to run, and in some cases, particularly going to the outlying really  early childhood center is currently here in the tech. If it was embedded, it would be easier to do that more extension of where kids would be ending up in the in the elementary schools,  there would be savings and increased capacity in the it's  the middle school. And Stevens  when you  combine electives that we have and also maximize the open seats that we currently have at the high school. The grade eight at Stevens  increases  select sections, electives and access for students  in the Academy of Coach  approach. Excuse me, separating elements of the building. It can assist and actually reduce some of the dropout rate that we had by kids having exposure and orientation sooner.  And also  tech center access for students as part of the high school  so that they could take the introductory classes and kids would have more access to finish  as completas.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And those are some of the reasons, and they're kind of bulleted. On the other side, we need a continuation for five, six, seven. Of of the Life skills and

[R1938-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the right hand column. So the number of classes is a 11 at bluff in the class size would actually go down. It bluffed it still be 11, and it would go to 15 with a little bit of, of increase of, of of size.
TEXT> And you can see the columns.  We had a problem. One of the issues that we had at bluff that made us start looking at this as we were doing the previous budget, was we needed to have another section, because this year we currently have 27 students in fifth grade at bluff, and it would balance that out  at dinner. You can see the numbers as well, 14 going  to 13. The overall size would go up by four. And you can see where the averages are. One of the things that we didn't follow, we felt as administrative team that we couldn't endorse is going  much beyond 12 or 13 in the early  in the K in pre-K. And we wanted to stay that we still have concerns and our principles will speak about those about the fourth grade growing as well. Maple, you can see the class size where it was 18 on average at 17. Even with 14 it would be  around 19. Again,  you can see some of the other  classes that we were concerned with. Those are the ones that we remained in pink that still have attention  towards. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the other summary sheet of what it would look like at the middle school to high school with moving up and how basically when in general, in a

[R1938-46] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: tough to absorb this. We look at this all the time. And I realized people aren't as familiar with it. But what you see on this slide in the far right column, that is the total of those are just some sections of classes currently.
TEXT> Right now this semester at, at at  Stevens, in the number of  number of students that teachers teach for the whole semester. So you can see some of them range from 19 to 46. The only reason I was putting that in there is to demonstrate that there's room in those classes  to show that we could we could add some  students in there. Some of those are core subjects like English. Some of those are gym classes, but there is capacity in the currently in the in the schedule, you would also add additional teachers that would would create more capacity. There's approximately 125 kids in the eighth grade class that would be moving up. We feel comfortable that we'd be able to absorb that, and those students would also have access to other  classes in which they could begin to to gain and acclimate to a high school curriculum as well. Again, these are just samples of other types of classes of what the numbers are. This is a tech center class. This is the math class. These are the actual schedules that were shown in that list of numbers. And  again this whole presentation is online right now.  World history classes with smaller numbers.  11 in the class, different types of  that's a biology teacher. What we really like to see that I hadn't looked at in a while, that is exciting and also an opportunity for this.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I want to focus on the arts improvement. We've already been sharing staff and going back and forth with planning between the middle and high school for both the band

[R1938-47] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: presentation is online right now. World history classes with smaller numbers. 11 in the class, different types of that's a biology teacher. What we really like to see that I hadn't looked at in a while, that is exciting and also an opportunity for this.
TEXT> I want to focus on the arts  improvement. We've already been sharing staff and going back and forth with planning between the middle and high school for both the band and chorus, as well as the drama program, spent a lot of positive traction there. And when you look at the numbers that we have right now,  we could have even more. But we could also still share staff between the middle and high school. So for example, the the, the chorus teacher in the band teacher could go back and forth so that they kind of loop with the same sets of kids growing the program, sustaining the program through the high school. So we're excited about that opportunity. And again, same numbers in the drama program, which are very, very positive. We're excited about that.  You see in the next slide how we have some teachers.  And again, this is, this is, a business teacher at the high school and absolutely  loaded with students. And when we spoke about the other,  math, elective,  the financial literacy that's going to be added, you again, you could you could get a lot more  students in those  electives as well, as well as other ones that might come up from the middle school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I just wanted to give examples of that. This, for example, is Intro to Design class in the middle school. You see the same type of, of of enrollment

[R1938-49] Bonnie Miles | School Board member (identified by elimination among the six sitting m | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: answer and also from from our own staff, from our own administrators. And I can definitely defer to them. They all wanted to be here to say their piece. So. I offer. Offer that as well. Also to answer any questions that you may have.
TEXT> I have a question. There's going to be some disturbance between Broad Street and up here, with more children getting out at the same time and people being moving around. Do we have to run that by the police department for safety purposes?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I'm not.

[R1938-51] Bonnie Miles | School Board member (identified by elimination among the six sitting m | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So I'm not.
TEXT> Well, they'll be because you're saying they're fewer children in the elementary. They'll be here in the middle in middle school, and then here they'll be at Stevens. So  that's going to change the flow of traffic coming in and out in the congestion. Do we need to run that by the police department? We offer safety purposes.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We do. We. So we consult with the police often. And we would with this same thing with fire as well as to which students we could have, what floors,

[R1938-52] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Bonnie Miles: be here in the middle in middle school, and then here they'll be at Stevens. So that's going to change the flow of traffic coming in and out in the congestion. Do we need to run that by the police department? We offer safety purposes.
TEXT> We do. We. So we consult with the police  often. And we would with this same thing with  fire as well as to which students we could have, what floors, what configurations would work in the like. In terms of the middle school, that would be the middle school would be the same amount of kids. There would be another 125 kids, excuse me,  in the high school. So,  so that that,  it it wouldn't be as impactful here, I think in the principals could talk about it as well as some of the things that they see.  A couple ideas that that came up today from Principal Romeo. I  hadn't thought through that in depth. And they were,  substantial, you know, so  but but they can they can speak to those as well. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Excuse me. So a quick question about, middle school. I'm looking at CMS grade six and there's, six sections of kids. So how many how many sections does an English

[R1938-53] Frank Sprague | School Board member | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: as some of the things that they see. A couple ideas that that came up today from Principal Romeo. I hadn't thought through that in depth. And they were, substantial, you know, so but but they can they can speak to those as well. So.
TEXT> Excuse me. So a quick question about, middle school.  I'm looking at CMS grade six and there's, six sections of kids. So how many how many sections does an English teacher teach in grade? Six? Do they teach four. Or five.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So currently they they teach five. So they have they on a typical year this year. With the with the academic centers and with the increased kind of getting back

[R1938-54] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Excuse me. So a quick question about, middle school. I'm looking at CMS grade six and there's, six sections of kids. So how many how many sections does an English teacher teach in grade? Six? Do they teach four. Or five.
TEXT> So currently they they teach five. So they have they on a typical year this year.  With the  with the academic centers and with the increased kind of  getting back at student skills and interventions, they're teaching three classes in the wind block. Typically they would teach five.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Who teaches the sixth class. Then if there's because it's six six sections. So how do they I guess what I'm asking.

[R1938-73] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: title one for the restructuring of moving fifth grade and eighth grade to different buildings, and the impact on students who have i.e. and special and special needs, especially the students who require Aids or one on one aids or one on couple few aids.
TEXT> Sure. So for the special ed needs and Mr.. And chime in as well. But the the IEP follows the the student. So if a kid goes up everything that they need would would follow in terms of the number of  interventions assistance one to ones what, what have you. So that that that always flows in a similar fashion year to year. In terms of  the title one impact,  I think that would be minimal. We did look at the  free and  reduced numbers in the assignment of classes, with  bluff being our longest standing  title, one highest free and reduced  numbers following that staffing. I believe the impact at the middle school is also  it would not be impacted. It's it's a shift of a year. It's more the catchment of where they are. But if we had to reassign  teachers following that like we do even in other years, if there should be a shift in that, it's been pretty steady  for years.  But I don't I don't see that as being a big shift so far.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Would the, the with the classroom at Maple be changing for title one was or the location of where title one is housed within Maple Change under this new plan.

[R1938-79] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I don't know if that's the heart of the question.
TEXT> I have a multitude of questions for usual.  And so I kind of brace yourself.  First of all, I think it's important for the public to know what numbers that we were dealing with. And things that actually were driving, some of my decision making and some historical data. So the New Hampshire Department of Education  recently came out with a press release talking about the increases in and what it was costing per student to educate a child in New Hampshire and in Claremont. The  cost per pupil rose. Our enrollment has dropped since the year 2,024.6%, and our cost per pupil has increased 57.2%, and that is adjusted for inflation. I did get a question about that from our community, a community member, whether or not that was adjusted for inflation. I confirmed the Doe. One of the questions that I had, I asked  Mr. Tempesta, is what is the makeup of our district now compared to what was the makeup of our district, say, in the year 20, 15 years or so ago? Do we have a higher concentration of free or reduced lunch students, which would tell us whether or not the matrix in our classroom has changed, or at least be a good indicator? And the answer to that question is no. So, and I was forwarded  you got there from the state today, correct?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Well, we pulled it. D Skinner our our free and reduced and a lunch specialist pulled that historically. But yeah, it is on the it's October 1st information that's on

[R1938-83] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: we going to make sure we can provide the salaries for those folks that are absolutely critical for our district to have? And we're looking at probably well over $100,000 per person, including their benefits. So this is not this is not small dollars here.
TEXT> And and also we also had really did not have a good understanding of what the minimum minimum requirements were  by the state. And in additionally, the ones that we were provided at the last meeting have actually changed. And they've actually the the minimum numbers have are higher. So in kindergarten, kindergarten to 225 students or fewer per educator learning level, 3 to 5, 30, 30 students or fewer per educator and middle school to high school 30 students, students and fewer per educator. Looking at our new matrix, we're not even coming anywhere close to even meeting the minimum standards. We are well below the minimum standards on any metric, on any grade level, except I think I think we are touching 30 in some of our classrooms in middle and high school. I correct with that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But it's only 2020. Four.

[R1938-87] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Actually. Was a year long single.
TEXT> Do not have those those restrictions. The other questions that I had that I'm hoping to have the answer today is, does our achievement data show that Claremont students at a ten elementary school that have historically had smaller class sizes perform in a statistically significant way, in a better way? And the answer with a scatter plot and everything that I received was the answer was no. The other question I asked, and I don't I didn't get a response to this, you know, via email. But will changing elementary schools to pre-K to four allow for more supports in the classroom for the same dollar amount? I don't.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So if if we move from a K-5 to pre-K for pre-K will have more supports because they'll be in an elementary school instead of at the tech, the grades

[R1938-88] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR: 'Mr. Kosky') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: answer was no. The other question I asked, and I don't I didn't get a response to this, you know, via email. But will changing elementary schools to pre-K to four allow for more supports in the classroom for the same dollar amount? I don't.
TEXT> So if if we move from a K-5 to pre-K for pre-K will have more supports because they'll be in an elementary school instead of at the tech,  the grades 1 to 4 will not get more support. The maintain the same amount of support because the the support needs stay with the students. And so that would remain the same. But we pre-K would benefit from that arrangement.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R1938-90] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Would we have enough room with the new configuration to provide universal pre-K services in the future? This is one of the drivers of the reconfiguration thought process was, is that  as every educator in the room would attest to that early childhood quality, high quality, early childhood education, that's critical. It's got to be high quality. Early childhood education  does more for graduation rates and and reducing special ed costs and keeping kids from being held back than any single, any single intervention. And so that is a question that I had is could we potentially, with this new configuration, have enough space to be able to provide universal pre-K?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. Think there'd be there would be room to do that in the future. It would require additional funds, but it would it would be the room there.

[R1938-92] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah. Think there'd be there would be room to do that in the future. It would require additional funds, but it would it would be the room there.
TEXT> Okay. And so I think those were my big questions.  And and also there is a disagreement and I've read a ton of stuff on this because I was really torn up about the idea of increasing  classroom size. And there is the evidence is really mixed on this. There are folks in the camp that are, you know, there's a lot of data out there that supports that certain number of certain number of students per classroom are critical. And then there are there is a wealth of data out there that actually says you can be stealing more important resources from students by trying to  buy, not being able to afford other services. So we're pushing services out by increasing the multiple layers of costs. For instance, you have to have more classrooms, you have to have more support personnel like,  human resources interventions. And it's very difficult right now to find teachers. So if you create a structural, a structure, a classroom structure where you you need to have a lot more teachers and it's really, really hard to find more teachers, which is where we're at. Having fewer classes, classrooms actually increases the likelihood that will have a teacher in every classroom that's not a new grad from somewhere. So those those are the my my driving factors for supporting this budget ultimately, and the configuration that was put forward.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You mentioned. The. School administrators here. Yeah, I think we can hear from them. I guess if we want to start with the the youngest, the elementary, if anybody.

[R1938-99] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christina: any language entering the preschool environment. So, I think being in an elementary school, we can get a little bit more creative about how we can service these students and what preschool can look like. I think Ben has my notes. If I missed anything.
TEXT> You had. All the. Lead points. Yeah. One thing, you can align. The curriculum a little better, you know, and so that we are, you know, perhaps improving our, our pre-K students for transition into kindergarten. But, yeah, the other thing would be like just,  I think you mentioned nurses. Did you say that already having a nurse having a secretary building?
NEXT> Christina: Yeah. Amazing. Having lunch in the building would be amazing. These are little, you know, headaches throughout our day that just take a lot of time for our educators and

[R1938-108] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal, Disnard (first name spoken here; surname  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: lot of factors to that. I'll. The other thing, I'll be honest, I joke all the time that I'd love to have an infant program nearby as well, because when there's an infant around, nobody misbehaves because we wouldn't want to upset the baby, right?
TEXT> Pre younger students bring out the best in older students. And I know at all three of the elementary schools we do a lot to partner younger and older. So again we're not just enriching the lives of preschoolers. We're enriching the lives of our own elementary students as well. So I'll get us started with elementary and  some of the benefits we see there. Of our fifth graders moving to the middle school, they'd have, again, additional opportunities. What other opportunities can we afford them? Students that are ready would have access to some advanced classes or some,  you know, being able to join classes that are of their strength and again, pushing them forward where we can. Some additional SL opportunities, such as their advisory program. Other opportunities in general, different unified arts Stem lab opportunities to learn more coding, all kinds of those things. The Pod approach that that you saw  on the screen a little bit really is a great transitional model for students that traditionally in an elementary school, they work with their classroom teacher as they move older, you know, through older grades, they have to get used to working with multiple teachers.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: A two teacher pod is a great transition approach to working further through that, access to additional arts programs, drama programs, music programs, after school programs, those are things we

[R1938-118] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: If you don't mind.
TEXT> I, we talked a little bit about this and I could start with some some thoughts.  You have to kind of change a little bit of the makeup of the middle school. Just think about library books, right? We have to get things that are appropriate. And I know we have grants to offer a lot of the reading initiatives talking. I want to steal your thunder, but stealing to talk about that  a little bit of the actual the grounds. Right. Looking at do we need and should we bring in playgrounds. Do we have to bring in Foursquare and Gaga pits and all those other things that we don't have at the middle school? So I see that as an opportunity and also as a challenge that those are things we need to to talk about. This is something that I thought about on my way over, and I'm going to just mention it. If this were to happen, we would would incorporate roughly 250 new students, right? The fourth grade going into the fifth, and the current theft, who are not used to getting up and being at school at 720 in the morning. So there's a thought there.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: What does that mean? What does that need to look at? You mentioned about the sort of the configuration of everyone emptying into that that area. I think a consideration

[R1938-123] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> I was curious if Mr. Pratt could speak to what I think is going to be one of the primary concerns is the eighth graders moving up to the high school, and  the developmental differences in how we're going to support those students in an environment where there are very mature students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. As the the you know, getting the eighth grade is up to the high school. I think there is a lot of benefits I've seen, I've been through this

[R1938-125] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: like an eighth grade academy approach, where they would designate a certain section of the high school, now we're able to get them socially, emotionally ready by the end of their eighth grade year and hopefully have a smoother transition into the ninth grade year.
TEXT> Because what we see at the at the high school level, ninth grade year, they're like I said, they're trying to acclimate to a much bigger environment, more responsibility. But in the meantime, it does impact your academics. And so by their end of their ninth grade year, they may have failed a few classes. Now they're in their 10th grade year halfway through their 10th grade year. Maybe they feel another class. And all of a sudden that automatically impacts our dropout rate, our graduation rate, and opportunities. This gives us the opportunity for the eighth grades to get to prepare socially and emotionally in a much bigger environment. And I feel that for students who struggle, were able to offer them, you know, we have the advisories on Mondays and then we have the structured study time,  Tuesday through Friday, where that's the time they can go to other academic teachers to get the help they need in their schedule in there. On top of that, we have a house system where the eighth graders will be put into the house system with the two administrators. It becomes much more personalized and makes it the environment feels smaller.  We like to recognize when they do things great, just like the middle school does, but it also allows us to continue to grow certain areas in the in the arts, in the music, in the theater.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That in giving those kids those opportunities that they had at the middle school, but also continue to have at the high school level because, you know, we want to

[R1938-135] Whitney Skillen | School Board member (ASR: 'Skillet'/'Skilling') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Steven Horsky: And I appreciate the diligence of everybody doing it. So that's what I have to say about that.
TEXT> This is a question for  Mike. Mike,  and I guess the both both the middle school and high school principals, where in this, in this new restructuring that we're proposing because of the budget cuts and with the eighth grade moving up and the fifth grade moving up, and the way the high school is structured now, where do you see or do you see any leverage points to increase opportunities for our high achieving students? This is kind of like picking a cherry right now, but for our high achieving students at Stevens,  specifically AP courses and, and and more rigorous electives that would make them competitive candidates to top ranked schools. I'm just wondering if you see any leverage points to increase those opportunities in the next three years. Say.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I think there's huge opportunities there. But before, because a lot of times, in middle schools in general, is that for these students who want to excel as much

[R1938-139] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Just one more to pay you back off of what you were saying. So what I'm hoping you'll you'll say to me is that if what I'm hoping for. Your answer is if we can compress a lot of these classes for some of your high achieving students into the three year graduation period, I'm seeing an opportunity to actually, in the senior year, do dual enrollment and  running start courses to really kick start some of these people to get, you know, college credit.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So absolutely, that's.

[R1938-142] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: The case. Then this is I.
TEXT> Know and that's something that  before all this came out, I spoke to  Superintendent Tempesta and assistant about, you know, whether we do this or not. What would it look like in regards to putting a three point for any student who wants to graduate in three years for these opportunities, for these real world experiences to, you know, it'd be my dream to whether we offer it in the current model and work with the different colleges so kids can eventually graduate from Stevens High School with an associate's degree.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's right.

[R1938-144] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: That's right.
TEXT> Or this also gives more opportunities to have more students take career centers, classes for the ones who want to go right out into the workforce. I think there's a lot of opportunities for eighth grade all through 12th grade. You know, no other anxieties for the for the for the current teachers and administration that at the middle school now. Yeah, it is going to be a lot of work. But I think in the long run. It's something that we need to look at, whether we do it this year or down the road. I don't think it's a matter of if it happens, it's when it happens.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: I have a follow up question. Does I really like the idea of students being able to take college courses in their senior year, especially college courses that would help

[R1938-145] Whitney Skillen | School Board member (ASR: 'Skillet'/'Skilling') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: to be a lot of work. But I think in the long run. It's something that we need to look at, whether we do it this year or down the road. I don't think it's a matter of if it happens, it's when it happens.
TEXT> I have a follow up question. Does I really like the idea of students being able to take college courses in their senior year, especially college courses that would help shave some semesters off if they are pursuing a four year degree.  In that case, if there is a dual enrollment opportunity in their senior year that would be funded by the district, it wouldn't put a cost burden to pay for River Valley credit hours  for their senior student. What it.
NEXT> Mike Koski: The state offers two Stem courses for free at any community college while they're in high school. Okay. And then River Valley, excuse me is also agreed to work with

[R1938-151] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: but I can only speak firsthand from the from the high school, such a dedicated, dedicated group of teachers that come to work every day for the same reasons we all do, because we we like where we are and we like what we do.
TEXT> And the students on top of that. Like I said, I've I've been in the urban cities and I've been in rural areas. I've been so impressed with the student population and how they step up every time and, and how much I've seen them grow in a short time. And I think, you know, we don't want to do anything that damages that. But I think this is going to give us an opportunity for our growth.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. One more question.

[R1938-175] Mimi Rhines | Ward 1; Stevens High School staff member (school counselor in later re | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mimi Rhines: cutting $1 million from a budget out of nowhere doesn't help with that from a citizens perspective and a trust perspective, because now we're a position where we're hearing plans of moving great districts around, which, for the record, I'm not totally opposed to it.
TEXT> I'm not as a staff member. I went to an ad  which is seven through 12, so I've been through it as a student, so I'm open to it. But it came out of nowhere, it feels like. So it's frustrating that for those of us in the district who live here, these plans have just been like, no offense rushed in a week because of a cut of $1 million that was made and there was no discussion of it  the last couple of meetings. So for some of you guys were thinking about it should have been discussed. Yeah. Can they ask a question about my time going, okay, that's the first part of my thing.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So like me to. Answer.

[R1938-177] Mimi Rhines | Ward 1; Stevens High School staff member (school counselor in later re | 2023-02-01
PREV> Steven Horsky: So like me to. Answer.
TEXT> I have I have a second part if you want me to go, okay. My second part is with the grade distribution. I'm not opposed to A3 at the high school. I think there's a way it could work.  I went through as a student. I have concerns Mr. Paterno's I have concerns. We've talked about it,  but I'm not totally opposed to it. I haven't been in fifth grade in a while, but I feel like fifth grade is kind of like the last year of being a kid. You know, at the elementary schools, they still snack time in fifth grade. Okay. You still snack time. You still have recess on playground equipment. Frank. You're right. So I feel like moving them from the little cocoon of elementary school to CMS is like throwing a baby in cold water. Here you go.  So that's more of my concern. But again, I don't work elementary school with kids, so that's just me as an outsider looking in. And my worry is with this plan, let's say this money goes back in. All right. Let's say next week they vote to put  1.8 million back in the budget. And let's say it passes okay. So everything's hunky dory. We get the contract bunnies back in. Does this plan still happen for next year?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I don't think we would be able to reduce the class sizes to allow pre-K in. That's good.

[R1938-189] Mimi Rhines | Ward 1; Stevens High School staff member (school counselor in later re | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: This is coming.
TEXT> I I'm just trying to understand the full picture. I'm not trying to push it back or anything. I'm just trying to understand the full picture. Because again, between million dollars being cut like that and then grade levels, we moved around and 30 kids in the classroom, it's a lot to take in. So, you know, step by step by step. So that's all those are my comments. Other people responding to my first comment or no.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I, I guess I can speak to for me, what allowed me to be able to vote positively for the reduction is, to kind of piggyback off of the

[R1938-219] Lisa Holtz | Claremont resident and elementary school teacher; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'm sorry to interrupt, but that was your three minutes.
TEXT> Okay, well, I've sent all of you, all of the board members, your  this letter. And,  it's far  more there's far more to a child than money and moving to different places. It's just more complex than that. They are complex people.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Yeah. Red and black. You. When you hear the sound. That's. Yeah. Thank you.

[R1938-221] Jennifer Austin | Claremont parent; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Yeah. Red and black. You. When you hear the sound. That's. Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. I  am  a former student from this district, and I am a mother of three children, a preschooler, a retained first grader, and an incoming eighth grader. She's in seventh grade now, and I actually have to agree with her with the,
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Information name and ward, please.

[R1938-233] Raquel | Ward 2; PTO president at Maple Avenue School (surname not captured by  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: The middle school.
TEXT> Hi, Raquel. Ward two. I am also. A. PTO president at Maple Ave. In town. I have. Two twin fifth graders this year who will be going to the middle school no matter what you decide.  But I'm going to just touch on a couple of points.  Jen presented something that is one of my main concerns. I don't see where we're going to build in guidance counselors, where we're going to have the support for students who aren't socially, emotionally ready to jump. Not saying that it's going to be every kid, but I see that there's going to be an increase in that. Kids, I am a proud  I am a pure product of this town where I went to North Street School. We then changed that to fifth and sixth grade. I had a  duo,  third and fourth grade where my teacher taught two grade levels. Then we jumped from no longer Disney fifth and sixth. The middle school became the sixth grade wing. My class was the first class through that wing. And then we went to high school. We went from seven period classroom  a day to block scheduling, which was not, you know, at of the norm. That was what a lot of schools were pushing.
NEXT> Raquel: And I can tell you as a student that grew up through this with a range of classmates, those of us supported at home, those of us growing up in

[R1938-237] Ann Fine | Ward 2, 101 Ledgewood Road; retired educator (self-ID heard only as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> My name is an fine. I live at 101 Ledge Wood Road. I'm in Ward two. I am an educator. I have taught elementary school. High school. I was an assistant professor at Landmark College for 26 years, and I taught dual enrollment for five years. I am a grandparent. I'm also a retiree living on a fixed income, and two often cuts are made in my name. I feel that as a community, the students, the teachers, the administrators are being pushed into a seismic shift without time to do so. There's been a lot of talk about preparing students tonight. While there is value in preparing students, the reality is that growth of the brain and the body is developmental. It happens over time. You cannot make the brain and body prepared to do what it is not physically capable of doing. If we want to keep teachers going, going for minimum standards, especially New Hampshire, minimum standards is not the way to go. Restore the cuts and explore educational options in a thoughtful and carefully planned manner. Strength of education is the strength of the community. I'm opposed to the cuts and I'm opposed to the timing of this seismic shift. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you.

[R1938-241] Marian Lovett | Ward 2; Stevens High School class of 2017 graduate (heard 'Mary and Lo | 2023-02-01
PREV> Marian Lovett: problems. So if you're saying that a fifth grader can possibly do that in middle school, and an eighth grader can do that in high school, I just want to remind you of where you were at 12 or 13 versus at 18, 17, 19.
TEXT> I mean, I think this could work if we put some serious thought into it, but we have we really planned enough for this in a week to think about five grades in one high school that I went to, talking about 25 kids to a classroom, when I just observed a class of 20 and the room was unmanageable because the teachers are overworked, underpaid, understaffed. We're saying we can rely on paraprofessionals, but if you looked on your hiring website, you don't have enough to try to cut classrooms and expect behavior to be okay and manageable. So  thank you for this time. I really, as many other people have said tonight, would like for the thinking of on this until we decide to cut $1 million because it would just start up and made in thin air. So thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[R1938-248] Laura Snelling | Ward 3; school nurse at Maple Avenue School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I see him behind the podium there.
TEXT> Laura Snelling, Ward three I'm also a school nurse. At Maple Avenue. I see it all. I've seen it all in a different district that I used to work at. I came to Claremont because I wanted to work in the same wonderful district that my kids go to school, however, would. The proposal is I don't want my kids to be in the school district. I do not want my 13 year old daughter at a high school with 1819 year old boys, with what my daughter in, who's a freshman, is experiencing and exposed to at this point in time. However, I fully support pre-K, going to schools, fully support it. This is a very much needed,  change that we really need to implement.  It it's more seamless.  Kids tend to do better overall. I came from a school where we did have pre-K,  two sections of about 30 students every day.  And their transition to kindergarten first, even to second, going to a different building was that much easier because they they started that foundational education, inside the elementary school,  I fully support fifth grade moving to the middle school.
NEXT> Laura Snelling: However, I think what we need to find is can we do a fifth sixth grade team? Can we do a seventh eighth grade team at the middle school and

[R1938-249] Laura Snelling | Ward 3; school nurse at Maple Avenue School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Laura Snelling: of about 30 students every day. And their transition to kindergarten first, even to second, going to a different building was that much easier because they they started that foundational education, inside the elementary school, I fully support fifth grade moving to the middle school.
TEXT> However, I think what we need to find is can we do a fifth sixth grade team? Can we do a seventh eighth grade team at the middle school and keep that eighth grade at the middle school?  Because what's the impact of middle school sports now that we move eighth grade up to high school? What's the impact potential in varsity and junior varsity if they're competing against eighth graders? I think that we have a lot of  teams in the middle school between six seventh and eighth.  Even though sixth graders are capable of participating in recreation sports,  moving to a fifth sixth grade model with a seventh and eighth grade model, you could then have fifth and sixth solely on recreation sports.  Sixth grade could be pulled up in, say, lake volleyball or some sport that doesn't quite have the numbers or cheerleading  because they do do competitive. However, your  middle school teams would be based off of seventh and eighth.  There's a problem at the high school where a lot of kids are seeming to drop out of sports,  because they may have been in eighth grade on or seventh grade on a B team, and they don't think that I can go to a high school and make a high school sports team.
NEXT> Laura Snelling: So would that then change the dynamic? Also, is there a cost savings where we're running an a, B team versus an A, B, C or even D teams, sometimes

[R1938-253] Michelle | Ward 2 resident; three years on the district restructuring committees  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Michelle, be in Ward two.  I'm just going to say flat out I am not as organized on my phone with emails and things, but I just. Want to acknowledge that my husband, rod also did quick calculations. He's the one that emailed you today, Heather, that you responded to. We  had the same as Candy found that our Cosby people is actually lower than other surrounding districts. And if you look for  inflation, it looks like we have a 14% increase instead of a 57% increase. So I just want to make sure that we're looking at the numbers. I also want to say that I have  preschooler, a third grader and a fifth grader. I fully support preschool as well.  He is not an identifiable student, and he is growing socially, emotionally in the school district and would not really be prepared for kindergarten without  having the preschool experience he's having now. With that being said, with this model that I saw in the presentation, I saw one preschool room in each of the classrooms in the elementary school looked like it was 24 students, with 12 in the morning and 12 in the afternoon.
NEXT> Michelle: I heard Christina mentioned tonight that there's 26 referrals coming in in three months. Can we even next year if we go for this proposal? Cover least restrictive environment for

[R1938-254] Michelle | Ward 2 resident; three years on the district restructuring committees  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michelle: having now. With that being said, with this model that I saw in the presentation, I saw one preschool room in each of the classrooms in the elementary school looked like it was 24 students, with 12 in the morning and 12 in the afternoon.
TEXT> I heard  Christina mentioned tonight that there's 26 referrals coming in in three months. Can we even next year if we go for this proposal? Cover least restrictive environment for those preschool students who will be entering our district? Are we going to cover that in three classrooms that are moving forward? We're looking at increasing class sizes. I personally don't think that if you even put the teacher salary raises in the budget and then you increase class,  their workload, that's not a raise anymore. That's that's compensation for them.  I also,  I have been on the restructuring committees. I think you all know, for three years. This came up in 2020. I heard a comment tonight, my Kosky, that  this has sort of been in the discussion for a little bit. And Heather,  a comment that came that this was not a surprise didn't seem like, you know, if you knew the million dollar cut was going to come, it was going to lead to a cut of the increase in class sizes.
NEXT> Michelle: And I just right now, like I would want full transparency from the board and the administration. Is this another way to put forward a restructuring proposal that evidence says

[R1938-255] Michelle | Ward 2 resident; three years on the district restructuring committees  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michelle: a little bit. And Heather, a comment that came that this was not a surprise didn't seem like, you know, if you knew the million dollar cut was going to come, it was going to lead to a cut of the increase in class sizes.
TEXT> And I just right now, like I would want full transparency from the board and the administration. Is this another way to put forward a restructuring proposal that evidence says 3 to 5 years takes to move it forward, and we're saying that we did it in 6 to 7 days. I don't understand why we can't put together a real committee with a purpose, with community members, with teachers, with parents, and really look at evidence. I have asked for three years for the evidence for the school district to provide me with why we are doing this. Where is the data showing that this is going to prove education? No one has given it to me in three years.  I'm not. There could be warrants in restructuring, but we need to look at our district, our needs. We need to look at. Do we have social emotional needs? Yes. Do we have like IEPs? Maybe there is a restructure, but is this the answer? Was the other one? The answer I don't know. We have no consultants. We have no one who is really taking into account what are district really needs. We're shifting students. That's what we're doing.
NEXT> Michelle: And if we're looking at looking at expanding opportunities, what are these expanded opportunities? What I hear is in sixth grade, in third quarter, you can get into advanced math.

[R1938-256] Michelle | Ward 2 resident; three years on the district restructuring committees  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michelle: Maybe there is a restructure, but is this the answer? Was the other one? The answer I don't know. We have no consultants. We have no one who is really taking into account what are district really needs. We're shifting students. That's what we're doing.
TEXT> And if we're looking at looking at expanding opportunities, what are these expanded opportunities? What I hear is in sixth grade, in third quarter, you can get into advanced math. That's that's that's an expanded opportunity. Meanwhile, there's no I don't know of any language at the high school level. We don't have foreign language. What what what enriching opportunities are we providing through these students? Thank you. And sorry. One last thing.  When the funds for funds are done, what happens next?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Right. That's the question.

[R1938-262] Molly DeLuca | Ward 2 parent; served on the district restructuring committee | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Hello. My name is Molly DeLuca. I'm from. Ward two. I was also on the restructuring committee recently. And, I agree that we definitely need some more time to come up with a well-thought out plan. I have a second in a fourth grader.  So I'm definitely concerned. And one of my main concerns is moving my fourth grader to the middle school next year.  I have serious concerns with what I've heard about what's going on in the middle school with all the behavior issues, and I guess I kind of want to shelter him a little bit. So that is definitely a primary concern. And I also want to address that. My son is in fourth grade this year and he has had the worst year. And he is a brilliant child. He's he's very smart, but he has a lot of  disruptive behaviors in his class and he cannot learn.  My husband and I are actually teaching him at home. We work full time jobs, and I just don't see how you can increase class sizes. And I should also say that my kids go to Bluff Elementary.  So I know we have a little bit more of a disadvantage with our population, but it is a serious concern. And  even he has acted up in his class. And I'm like, that is not your behavior.
NEXT> Molly DeLuca: And it's, you know, he's bored. He's seeing that these kids can disrupt and he's trying to get attention. So he's being disruptive. So I just I don't see how

[R1938-288] Raquel | Ward 2; PTO president at Maple Avenue School (surname not captured by  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Raquel: been in in some of these classrooms we purchased with Covid money, new desks that have the chair connected to the desk when they're an odd, not even a trapezoid shape. I don't know what they are. I'm not a math teacher, but, you. Know.
TEXT> I don't know what they do. They aren't a shape that exists in the math world, but when you put them up together, you have corners that stick out or a chair that sticks out. And these classes that are already full, I've been in them. I can tell you this is how they walk around each other. You can't even take a full circle to put your jacket on. You can't have anything at your desk besides your required materials for that  class.  Kids are literally carrying from fifth grade. They rotate and they are carrying their stuff in their hands because there's no room to bring a bag anywhere with you. So, and I also know our school districts, housing tables, chairs and things off site. We probably could find $1 billion if we had a huge yard sale.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just want to make a comment though. I don't. Think.

[R1938-290] Mimi Rhines | Ward 1; Stevens High School staff member (school counselor in later re | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: I just want to make a comment though. I don't. Think.
TEXT> Meeting your eyes. Ward one  officer Simons had to leave, but you want me to make sure that she that I expressed her concern for the staff and all of this and how staff feels about this as as I said, it's rushed.  We learned about it from an email from last week, and then we had a presentation by Mr. Pratt. Was it Friday? Friday? You know, so the staff really time to digest this. Like this is a group of people and parents can be people who want to know about it. But again, this has been rushed. And I share the concern that Crystal has. Others have that the other thing couldn't happen for the last three years because there are so many things to work out. And it's been a week. And this is like restructuring, like the soft launch of it. And so that's, I think, our shared concern. But she was confirmed as a staff. And I can answer the  athletics question if you want me to.  Students get four years of varsity eligibility. So eighth grade would play at the eighth grade. So even if their house, the high school, their sports would remain at CMS. So I can answer that question at least.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: One point. Before. Can I just make one point before.

[R1938-293] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yes.
TEXT> I. I. I. I don't think I don't know if people know what the numbers are going to be in elementary school.  I  have a feeling that folks think that we're going up to 25 kids in a classroom, or even 20 children in a classroom. The proposed the proposal that we. Had. It's not not any more close to that. And in reality, bluff doesn't change really at all. I mean, if you if we I want line for line here we have, we have only a few classrooms at the higher you know, three, four, five or 3 or 4 level that are, are even close to the minimum standards. So I get this feeling that folks think that these classrooms are going to be going to 25 kids classroom or in bluff, not one classroom increases. There's decreases actually. So I, I just don't want there to be a confusion in the public about we're not we're not we're not looking to go to minimum standards. We were using minimum standards as a metric to look at, because when we look at the budget, we know there's no ceiling. But we were we needed to know what the floor was.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And so I don't want there to be this huge misconception that we were suddenly jumping to 20, 25 kids a classroom, when in most classrooms, almost nothing is changing.

[R1938-294] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: not we're not we're not looking to go to minimum standards. We were using minimum standards as a metric to look at, because when we look at the budget, we know there's no ceiling. But we were we needed to know what the floor was.
TEXT> And so I don't want there to be this huge misconception that we were suddenly jumping to 20, 25 kids a classroom, when in most classrooms, almost nothing is changing. So did people.  Because I hear people being terrible, mentioning how big the classrooms are going to get. Is that is that something that. Am I reading this correctly?
NEXT> Raquel: We have 27 and a fifth grade class at bluff. Right now.

[R1938-303] Unidentified | Unattributed fragment - diarizer catch-all for clipped sentence onsets | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: I just don't.
TEXT> Get this. What did you say? Go ahead kids, a classroom.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Candace Crawford, Ward two. This is a technical question. In the deliberative meeting next week. Should. If if money was added to the general budget, would the default budget also

[R1938-310] Cassandra Edwards | Ward 3; parent and teacher at Disnard Elementary School | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Cassandra Edwards, Ward. Three I am a parent. I am a citizen. I am also a teacher at desert.  I've heard a lot about this new contract. Obviously as a teacher, I'm in love with this new contract. It's great news.  But if you want to affect teacher turnover, it's not just about the contract at Disney Art school for the first time. And I don't know how long. We lost no classroom teachers last year. And it's not because of our pay. We don't get paid more than they do it bluff.  A  whole lot of that goes to the lady in red over here. We feel supported by our administrator when it comes to, you know, dealing with those behaviors that we're having struggles with in the classroom when it comes to parents that are having their concerns and they don't often know how to express them in a polite, appropriate manner when they are concerned for their their children. We know she's going to be there to help us, to make sure everything gets ironed out. That doesn't stop at the building that comes up here too. So when we get pulled into a meeting with our principal that says the school board has boated, has approved your contract and voted to cut $1 million, and we have no idea why.
NEXT> Cassandra Edwards: But all we keep hearing is we're going to restructure. It gets very confusing and it gets very obviously, you've heard from a lot of educators tonight that are all

[R1938-313] Marian Lovett | Ward 2; Stevens High School class of 2017 graduate (heard 'Mary and Lo | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Mary and Lovett were two. Just a couple comments from  What's Up, Claremont a lot of people found it very difficult to access information. This is a comment I made before of accessibility of information makes a  informed voter, and it makes a lot of tensions ease between the public and the board. Number two, the dual enrollment program.  My  co graduate of S.H., Nick and I, we did take dual enrollment courses. And a huge setback was they wouldn't have enough students enroll in them so they wouldn't be offered.  We I think we're offered for AP classes. And a lot of people didn't get credit for them because on the AP exam you usually need a three or higher. Well, now it's getting more competitive. You need a four or higher. A lot of places don't accept a three. So if we're going to pride ourselves on offering dual enrollment, make sure their quality courses so they actually transfer because they're three credits.  Most universities require four. So the transfer process, the quality of education, let's make sure if we're providing ourselves and offering it that we actually are offering it to these standards.  And the last thing was looking, listening to  Mr. Pope, who was also an educator over at the tech center.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: More research I did earlier tonight was looking in the Mirror Corp's. They have a Vista grant that we would qualify for if there is any possibility looking into it.

[R1938-314] Marian Lovett | Ward 2; Stevens High School class of 2017 graduate (heard 'Mary and Lo | 2023-02-01
PREV> Marian Lovett: transfer process, the quality of education, let's make sure if we're providing ourselves and offering it that we actually are offering it to these standards. And the last thing was looking, listening to Mr. Pope, who was also an educator over at the tech center.
TEXT> More research I did earlier tonight was looking in the Mirror Corp's. They have a Vista grant that we would qualify for if there is any possibility looking into it. Just to think of that alternative thinking, what can we offer students instead of college career path? Because it's not what is cut out to be. It's not what they promise you. So  just those tech classes, volunteer, Peace Corps, Mirror Corps, military. Both my parents were in the military. There are over 20 year veterans. They had the best career possible. That set them up for success. So let's think of more ways to be able to provide different opportunities. Because there is no clear cut mold for a student or what success even looks like in today's time. So thanks.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you.

[R1938-318] Raquel | Ward 2; PTO president at Maple Avenue School (surname not captured by  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any further. Comments from the public?
TEXT> Sorry. I know. I'm. Hogging space. And you guys might have an answer. Yeah. I  have a question. So we have these classroom sizes projected for these numbers. What happens if we get a lot of new students transferred in, and we have to increase those class numbers because that's where they fall in.  What would be a solution if we ended up with a classroom where they do creep up to those higher numbers? My kids own classroom has gained three students since the beginning of the school year, and we're not even out of January. Well, we're now out of January, so.
NEXT> Unidentified: Don't answer that. Let me try.

[R1938-322] Raquel | Ward 2; PTO president at Maple Avenue School (surname not captured by  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: in. And and part of the problem at bluff, having a single fifth grade is that there is no buffer. So by trying to have multiple classes at more schools, we're able to try to alleviate that problem. But it's it can be very unpredictable.
TEXT> Yeah. I guess that that would be the second part of my question is, say at Maple we ended up with class numbers too high.  Would we transfer students to the other elementary schools if needed to try and balance those age groups? Because we've done that this year. Maple ran out of room in kindergarten, so now we shuffled students. So I'm I guess that's my question. If if at one school was, you know, reaching their cap, would we transfer students to the other elementary schools?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, I think we're kind of.

[R1938-329] Bonnie Miles | School Board member (identified by elimination among the six sitting m | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. Thank you everybody. Seeing no call us from citizens. I'm going to close that now. We had a lot of discussion on this. Any further comments or questions from the board?
TEXT> I have one. I can. Call today from a parent. And he had a suggestion and he asked that I would really the message he said, what if we took the Bluff school and had all the little all the little children in there, the youngest ones right through the first grade. So  the other two elementary schools would house all the second two, three, four and five. That's right. And then six, seven, eight could still stay here and, you know, and then that and then they wouldn't have to go to the high school. So I just said I would relay the message. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: All right. Seeing no further discussion on this, we're going to move on. To item. The last item on tonight's agenda is the Visioning Committee. Continuation of this is the

[R1938-340] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center; chair of the T | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So are you suggesting we stay?
TEXT> It's an agreement, right? So if there's things we don't like about the agreement, we bring that up. And I think that at the region ten meeting, it's an excellent opportunity. I believe Mr. Tempesta will be there. Donna magoon is already RSVP'd. We tried to get  the commissioner there, but he's not available Wednesday. But Jeff Beard will be there. So there'll be some great opportunity to have that exchange. And I think you must have copies of the region ten agreement. If not, I'm happy to share that with you. And then you can take a look at it. It is in our  drive, our vision Committee drive, but it'd be a good opportunity to take a look. There's some things that we follow that's been passed precedence, like  six seats. We save them until June 1st for Newport and they save six seats for us. So if we have a student that really wants to get into welding, we can make that opportunity there. But there's some things that hadn't been addressed, like we provided transportation for a long time, and we've kind of separated from that because we didn't have enough busses, they didn't have enough busses,  but we've made available to work out. But those are the things we can negotiate with within that realm.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I knew the answers. It just. Better coming. From him. Thank you. That's been.

[R1938-378] Jennifer Austin | Claremont parent; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I would love for you to say something. Please.
TEXT> Oh,  okay. So. Yeah. So thank you for that. Honestly,  I would like to. I mean, I will say that it's not all administration's fault. I will say I've been to one administrator twice. And then, like I said, after speaking with Mr. Romeo, because this is I'm.  He had no idea. So it wasn't his fault.  It so it's not just one person's fault. There's a very high issue with communication in administration, and there's a very huge confusion which with what is right and what is law.  So at this point, what I'm dealing with is the student is by the state required an education. So my researching of a stalking order cannot happen because he has to have his education and he cannot. This is what I'm told for the board. I have.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: A question for the administration. I'm sorry, do. We need a new policy? No. On do we? But do we. Do we need a policy on personal space? Do we

[R1938-382] Jennifer Austin | Claremont parent; citizens' comments | 2023-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: have. So there is it is being dealt with. So I can't talk about specifics of this. I urge all of us not to talk about specifics of this and open forum like this for a variety of legal and ethical reasons for the students.
TEXT> So my reasoning for bringing this up is so that these parents and these girls know to say something because they're not. I'm not saying that this child or these students are not getting consequences, but the consequences that they are receiving are not working.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you for coming.

[R25649-108] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026; attending as guest) | 2026-06-19
PREV> Tim Broadrick: with the two acting interim people in special ed, I said, you're not putting a signature on anything. They are all coming to me. And when I received the contract from constellations for $350,000 worth of work, I replied and said, I'm copying Tammy Cody.
TEXT> Please set up a meeting with her so we can talk about this. It didn't take 48 hours, right? For me to get an email from a member of the Claremont District staff saying, hey, we heard you didn't sign this contract yet, but we need the services because they're in a kid's IEP. And I wrote back, they will meet with me and we will negotiate a contract before you take advantage of their services. I understand that the services are required by federal law, etc., etc., but there's a special and complaint process. We can provide compensatory services in the future. There are ways to get through all that stuff. I am not going to be told by an employee that I have to sign something, so I read it. I'm going to understand it. I'm going to unfavorable clauses out of those agreements. Figure out how we're going to fund them.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Okay. Doctor. Doctor, doctor. Hey, do you remember that purchasing item I brought up in policy committee that had, et Cetera was allowed to sign on behalf of the district,

[R25649-238] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Right.
TEXT> And it's around kids. I mean, so we have to make sure.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I think before we even schedule, I'm sure you're already thinking about this is like we have to get the product.

