[R10683-115] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Tyler';  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: council raised money all week, for which a minute for which a minister should get pied in the face. Surprisingly, this was won by Assistant Principal Misty pray with a chocolate pie. However, because during the pie in the face was on Bailey's bucket list.
TEXT> Both she and Mr. Bailey also get paid in the face with ripped cream pies. It was actually pretty funny to watch. Stevens, students will be engaged in the finals the week of January 22nd. We are currently planning a morning of various activities for the early Willis Day, which will be overseen by Student Council. We had one of these in the past and it turned out to be awesome. We had a state boom, a bunch of other different things. Stevens students. Stevens High School students outperformed the average for the state of the act in 2019. Stevens students and an average composite score of 28.5, says Mr. Tempesta. This is from Miss Berry. So, that that level of achievement puts them in a 88th percentile nationwide. This is for Mr. Pesto, apparently for Miss Bailey. The city has taken by close to 2 million US students annually. It assesses college readiness and English math written in science, using a one to 3 to 36 stale  competence straws. Average results for the four subjects. New Hampshire ranked third in the nation with an average composite store of 25.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: The national average was 20.7. The class of 2019 did not just ace the A, C, C, T, but according to Principal Doctor Barry, 51% of last year's senior class

[R10683-116] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Tyler';  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: 2 million US students annually. It assesses college readiness and English math written in science, using a one to 3 to 36 stale competence straws. Average results for the four subjects. New Hampshire ranked third in the nation with an average composite store of 25.
TEXT> The national average was 20.7. The class of 2019 did not just ace the A, C, C, T, but according to Principal Doctor Barry, 51% of last year's senior class graduated with a 27 credit diploma with distinction, which means they met the highest standards for New Hampshire state. Starless.  When the program was initiated during her first year here, it was estimated that just 20% of graduating seniors might qualify. Seeing more students achieve the goal each year speaks to how well they are doing on the. On the whole, 64% of our 2019 graduates in the table that they are going to a 2 or 4 year degree programs.  We the we had students last year. Go to doubt math and all the way down to Hawaii Pacific University. They're going all over the country  and they are,  studying everything from software engineering to fashion design. And I can tell you that this year, I'm pretty sure with my senior class, we are also a lot of us are doing for the 27 credit diploma. From Claremont Middle School.  There was a congratulations to the geography B winners, as well as the spelling bee winner, who I'm pulling up the name of now.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: And I will send this to you guys in the email probably tomorrow. I just have not been home all day. So the geography bee. So, yeah, the CMS spelling

[R10683-117] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Tyler';  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: my senior class, we are also a lot of us are doing for the 27 credit diploma. From Claremont Middle School. There was a congratulations to the geography B winners, as well as the spelling bee winner, who I'm pulling up the name of now.
TEXT> And I will send this to you guys in the email probably tomorrow. I just have not been home all day.  So the geography bee. So, yeah, the CMS spelling bee champion is Riley Ridge. Sanderson, the runner up is Grace Sauder. Riley, where we participate in the New Hampshire Union Leader Spelling Bee in Plymouth, New Hampshire,  on March 7th, 2020. That's the state spelling bee. So for grade six. The grade sets. Geography B semifinalist. They have qualified to advance to the next round this year.  And there is a stay tuned for more about these geo geniuses. But those  are sits out. Noah Fallon, Cooper, Sylvester, David Collins Ella manzi. Greco, Sebastian Darrow, Cameron. Gilson, Landon. Carter. Rhett, Ariana morse, Edison Shanahan, and Fallon Cow. And on December 2019, students of the month were grade six Preston West. Grade seven Zoe Stevens. Grade eight Angelina Lynn, The Media Center, Madison Bunker Unified Algebra, Kylie Plummer unified out straight seven Devin Hollis and unified grade eight Jason Demos. Just now just here to present theirs. And because I sent out the email last night because I totally sidetracked it, I did not get anything from Maple Bluff. Any questions?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you. Tyler.

[R10683-154] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Michael Tempesta: restrictive environment in their own neighborhoods, with their with their neighbors and with their peers. Okay. So we have developed a mr. Nestor and his team. I've developed a parent advisory council, and we have meetings scheduled for the first meeting in a few weeks.
TEXT> Yeah. January 28th at 530 in the teal, room here at the Tech Center. We're going to start going over our program development and things and having outreach. Outreach. A lot of points were made about programing. During the the budgeting process. And we want to hear from everyone. And we're also going with a parent or two from that committee, as well as members  of this specialist, to tour, the New England Center for Children in  South for mass in the former, collaborative that I worked at in Central Mass Collaborative to look at the programing types of things that we want to build here. And that's starting, I think, a couple of days after that. So we want to really get on that. And again, for the public who might not have followed that closely. We know right now that we have three, maybe three definite, maybe four students who are looking to outpace. That would be a significant factor. Okay. They would be going to some of the places like I just mentioned before.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Not only is it a long distance to be commuting, but it's a it's a cost of approximately about between 80,000 and $100,000 per placement and transportation. We think we

[R10683-208] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Who you are.
TEXT> Okay? I'm, Danielle Skinner, the food coordinator. Food program coordinator for the saw. So I was saying is, despite efforts that have been made, including attempted payment plans, certified letters and  phone calls, assisting families with free and reduced applications, we still have debt that's accumulating and without  without something to not a consequence, but something to get the families to pay. That debt will continue. I feel, one of the questions that you guys had had was in regards to the CIP program, which is the community eligibility provision. I looked at this on January 2nd and literally before I was done with the report. Dessner I received notice that Dessner acquired a couple more students and were bumped up to would be the 40%, which is necessary. And  that being said, 40% is not the ideal number that the state has said.  The ideal number for a c p provision is 60%. At 60%, the district would not have to cover any  funds for a school.  Bluff currently is at 49.66% and that is up since last year, roughly 42%.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R10683-215] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: Yeah.
TEXT> With the projected numbers of participation, your projected outcome, would that you guys would have had a positive amount on that school, meaning that there would have been slight revenue. What ends up happening is the 42, 46.24% that they were at last year. We multiply that by 1.6%. That number is the number of free students the state or the number of students state will qualify as free. The rest of them are considered paid. So that means is the reimbursement amount for that number. The free students. The state will give you full reimbursement.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So 75% of the kids roughly.

[R10683-224] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: So I should be neutral.
TEXT> I spoke to the lunch director the other day, and she said that they had about 70 kids eating, which is roughly about 50%.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So then realistically speaking, at that point, then it is free.

[R10683-241] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> The the major difference between what, the end of your projections were for bluff last year and where they stand right now is the fact that bluff lost about 30 kids in their enrollment. So that that makes a huge difference in your lunch participation. In a normal school district or normal school, the greater your participation, the more money you're making, the less you're in the red.
NEXT> Jason Benware: This is just a rhetorical question, but do you think it's kind of weird that there's a food service provider providing lunch and breakfast, for that matter, for gratis, for

[R10683-248] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: Why this.
TEXT> Is food. Is it is it ambiance. Is it scheduled? Is it you know, there are a lot of different reasons that are being thrown out right now as to why we're not seeing the level of participation that we want, because we're leaving money on the table by not feeding kids breakfast. And kids aren't able to learn if they're not getting good meal when they come to the school. Yes.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's so baffling to me that this is the first time we're really hearing this part of it. But anyway, continue on D.

[R10683-301] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: It makes no sense whatsoever.
TEXT> I, I spoke to the state about a month ago, and with the guidelines we would have to cover, like I said, the student cost not necessarily what the cost of the food is or anything like that, the cost that we would charge students.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So so as it stands right now, we're referring to the cost of people who don't pay. So and we're still getting free, free and reduced lunch from the federal

[R10683-302] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Danielle Skinner: I, I spoke to the state about a month ago, and with the guidelines we would have to cover, like I said, the student cost not necessarily what the cost of the food is or anything like that, the cost that we would charge students.
TEXT> So so as it stands right now, we're referring to the cost of people who don't pay. So and we're still getting free, free and reduced lunch from the federal government. Correct. So if we simply chose not to collect on the the owed debt from every kid in this town and simply paid it off at the end of the year. What is the difference?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: That's a.

[R10683-307] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: A month is what I'm estimating are continued.
TEXT> No no no. What I mean is this as a town, if we and I'm not saying we are and I'm not I'm not advocating that we do. I just want to see the will of the people and see where they're at on this. What I am saying is, is that right now? Currently we have kids who don't pay. And we we're essentially covering the cost. Yeah. Well, if then we just decided that, oh, no kid pays and we cover the cost, we're still going to get the federal stuff. Why though? I mean, what's the difference?
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Know it's going to be free anyway.

[R10683-333] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> All students has to go to every single student, just like my summer letter. I have to send my summer letter with my friend. Reduced application with to every single student. You cannot send things to only families that you think qualify.
NEXT> Unidentified: For wrong addresses on. Some of them. Stamps on Ross. Who established a $3 dollar 75 price is that Abby group. Is that us?

[R10683-361] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member; questions food service c | 2020-01-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: without having to go out for another RFP, without having to. You go through an RFP whenever you want to, but you have to renew their contract each year. So if we don't want to renew with them starting July 1st, we don't have to.
TEXT> I'd like to look at I'd like to look at that at some point, whether we want to renew them, whether we possibly would be losing less money by doing our own lunches in-house and what it would I brought up before. And I'll bring it up again, what it would look like to have a nice nutritious bag lunch. Less, less attractive. You're not going to get the kid from home to throw away their lunch because they want to go get the burger, the pizza, whatever the you know, you're not going to get that.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: That into our into our next look.

[R10683-371] Danielle Skinner | Food Program Coordinator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: It's an ongoing conversation.
TEXT> Can I ask real quick, when you had mentioned the bag lunches, when  when you think about that idea. Are you thinking about still being still participating in the federal lunch program where kids would get free or reduced? Or did you mean like we provide a ham sandwich, lunch with veggie sticks and a milk and and the school district is completely paying for that?
NEXT> Unidentified: No. I mean, I thought it would still be within the program, the free and reduced program, that. Meeting right. On Friday or Monday. You get 20 kids at Disney.

[R10683-486] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: I think.
TEXT> I'm going to list them individually. But we can vote all at once. Correct. On the acceptance of the donations. Okay. I move that we accept  the donations in this order. For the Claremont Elementary School of $7,000. By an anonymous donor from the Meyer company for contribution to the pre-K program. I do not know the figure. For the Cliff mini grant donation for the Rock Garden at Disney. Do you know the figure on that? Because I don't have that one. I couldn't find it. We'll get back to that. Donations for the lunch debt in the total of $150.  Acceptance of the Kiwanis donation for the full Circle Farm for life skills students of $980. And the donation from the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation for the New York trip for CMS eighth graders of $6,000.  The ExxonMobil education grant for Stevens High School of $500. The ExxonMobil education grant to Disney Elementary School of $500, and finally the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation for Music and Voice programs, the David M Brooks Music Funds, for $8,500.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Any further discussion on that?

[R10694-13] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, second.
TEXT> All those in favor? I abstain. It's not here. Student representative report December.
NEXT> Unidentified: 12.

[R10694-21] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> Opposed? Okay. All right. Now. Student representative report.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: So, for Stevens High School, starting next week, students will be engaged in midterms and end or finals. Start in the week of January 22nd. They are planning a more

[R10694-22] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Thank yo | 2020-01-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Okay. All right. Now. Student representative report.
TEXT> So, for  Stevens High School, starting next week, students will be engaged in midterms and end or finals. Start in the week of January 22nd.  They are planning a more than a various activities for the early release day, which will be overseen by student council.  Stevens High School students outperformed the average for the state on the Act in 2019. Stevens students and and average composite score of 28.5. So I say you said superintendent might confess to that level of achievement. Puts them in 88th percentile in eight nationwide.  I went over some of this last week, so I'm not going to go through it all but the class of 2019. They're not just a CSAT. I turn on to Miss Barry, who's actually here tonight. He said 51% of last year's senior class graduated with a 27 diploma with distinction, which means they met the highest standards for New Hampshire state. Style is in the students who attended Dartmouth all the way down to Hawaii Pacific University and personally am jealous. That's the pictures are awesome. But,  juniors, have we done SAT prep on Khan Academy for the SAT?
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: That would take place in March for Claremont Middle School. They want to congratulate the spelling Bee champion rally with Sanders and she will be going to Plymouth, New Hampshire

[R10694-23] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Thank yo | 2020-01-15
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: the highest standards for New Hampshire state. Style is in the students who attended Dartmouth all the way down to Hawaii Pacific University and personally am jealous. That's the pictures are awesome. But, juniors, have we done SAT prep on Khan Academy for the SAT?
TEXT> That would take place in March for Claremont Middle School. They want to congratulate the spelling Bee champion rally with Sanders and she will be going to Plymouth, New Hampshire on March 7th for the state spelling bee thief. Greatest bond to win a astute dance from 7 to 9 p.m. on Friday, January 17th, 2020.  They are asked an eighth grade parents and students to donate food and drinks items if they are able to. The money made with this dance with dough towards the eighth grade trip to Boston. They're turning behind schedule for the goal, so donations will be appreciated.  For Disney Elementary, they will perform their band concert tomorrow night at 6:30 p.m. and there's nothing else to a poor and nuts week. I will have a student joining me for my report for a presentation to you guys about the cell phone policy.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for the student. Thank you Tyler.

[R10694-28] Mimi Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 1 (Stevens High School counselor) | 2020-01-15
PREV> Mimi Ryan: they will have a full belly of food between breakfast and lunch. I realize I am not the prime target of the food service program because I'm an adult, but I can speak to it since I get lunch every day at the high school.
TEXT> A good portion of the ingredients they use are locally sourced, including the milk. It comes from a dairy in New Hampshire. The salad bar is always stocked with fruits, veggies and even sometimes homemade salad dressing or all of the entrees. Super delicious all the time. No, of course not. But there's a good variety of food between the main entry, the express station, the sandwich making station, the homemade pizza, and the prepackaged salads and sandwiches. Have I seen the food variety and level of student happiness? With the food quality increased substantially since we brought the group in? Yes, without a doubt. My first year was the last year we had the in-house program so I can speak the differences. I can tell you that I didn't get lunch at school during my first year, because I didn't really catch my interest at dinner. Our food services contract, and resuming having our food in-house and having students get a ham sandwich and a carton of milk is a giant step backward that I do not think we as a district should take. A hungry student is an unhappy student who is not going to be fully engaged in their school day, and they will go from Hungary to Hungary real fast.
NEXT> Mimi Ryan: I can tell you that very, very few students will feel full and content after that proposed lunch. As I said earlier, a good portion of our population struggle with

[R10694-39] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: interrupt you for saying if folks from the audience want to pull your chairs up here so you can watch the president feel free. Feel free to do that. You can sit right in up here and be with us, even if you. Thank you.
TEXT> So we we had several goals starting in the first, budget retreat with the board talking about the direction.  For the coming year. And  we agreed in that meeting,  many, many months ago that we would we would focus on having a no taxpayer increase budget.  That we would create efficiencies in programing to ensure that all students had access to quality education. Particularly expanding targeted grade level interventions so that all students could be successful.  Create robust, robust, specialized programing the least restrictive environment that ensures all the students have access to career and college. Options upon graduation.  There were also many historical gaps  in programing that greatly disadvantaged students, in particular  the middle school core classes of only having half a year of science in social studies. We want to mitigate enrollment trends that that create  many inequities with staffing, content delivery and resources within the elementary schools as well, which we'll we'll talk about  in detail.  There's also  we had to negotiate for  they came up, thank God they're staggered now with the different lengths going forward for contracts in the first year.  With an entirely new team.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It was a lot of work, and I would like to thank our team for that, as well as all the union representation for all the bargaining units. And then

[R10694-43] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, yes, there.
TEXT> Are an awful lot of numbers here.  I hope they can be seen from afar. But basically what we're looking at is,  for our local budget, we're recommending a $34.7 million budget. And it does include some unique components to it when comparing last year to this year. So just working our way down from the top debt service,  a slightly lower amount that we're spending next year and this year primarily on interest  on the fund transfers. I haven't found a reason to transfer that $65,000 over. So we did not include it in this year's budget.  Special education out of district for elementary is up a little bit. And again, everyone who's been involved in special education, and especially out of district placements knows that that's a that's a very difficult number to forecast when child comes in or a child moves out and there's a fair amount of movement that we have there. But this is the best estimate that we're working with  as of right now in taking a look down through each one of the locations. So bluff Maple Disney, you're seeing a rather significant increase year over year here at the middle school. We did include four additional teacher positions in the middle school for science and for Social Studies.  So as to address some of the inequities and the incomplete,  curriculum that is currently being offered at the middle school.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The high school, relatively flat. The alternative program, the pride program was not in last year's budget, but clearly is a is a part of this year's budget. Sugar River

[R10694-55] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: Jason has a comment.
TEXT> I. Think. I might be. Able to help. So in the last meeting when we talked about this, one of the things that we talked about was is that an interesting occurrence happened this year. That doesn't typically happen. We didn't have any kids age out of  out of district. So typically what do we have three, 4 or 5 kids a year age out. Right. Had had our average for kids age out. We'd have been looking at $200,000 less than we're looking at right now. So realistic speaking. Next year kids are going to age out. It should look very different. But special education is highly unpredictable, and overall we're down.
NEXT> Unidentified: About $200,000 in our district costs. We would be down, closer to 300, 400,000. But we've had some recent move in since the first budget Committee meeting.

[R10694-67] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other questions move the revenue. Okay.
TEXT> If we go over to. The next one, there we go. Now on estimated revenues.  And what's interesting with a school budget is we're voting on the expense side. We're not voting on the revenue side. And fluctuations in revenues can have significant impact on tax rates. I know this discussion has gone on in the recent past. It went on no prior when I was sitting on the board, and all the time that I've been working in school system is what kind of funds are coming in. And then what is the net number left at the end that needs to be raised from local taxes? So what we have here is,  let's hold on the, on the, the district assessment for a moment, because that's really what's left. And district assessment in this case is what needs to be raised from district dollars. We have tuition money in state A learning I don't remember what E stands for. Basically other schools that are sending their kids to Claremont. We receive a tuition and estimating that to be pretty pretty flat from year to year, $600,000. Same as it relates to vocational ed transportation fees. We receive interest income on the investment trusts that are in place, pupil activity fees,  other dollars that have come in which could include contributions, other monies that we're not sure what they are, but they continually become available to the school system and accepted by the board.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And then the fund balance to reduce taxes is basically what the excess earnings were, the surplus coming out of last year. Once the audit is completed for fiscal 19,

[R10694-129] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Jason Benware: at the say there's going to be more teachers in our schools. I think that's great. And I just wanted to put it out there for anybody who's listening that have been saying this, this is indeed happening. So, our kids are benefiting from this.
TEXT> So I will your talking about that. I just want to fill out a little bit about the positions at the middle school and what happened. When doctor McGowan started, he was faced that year with a with a $900,000 deficit, I believe. And so some radical steps had to be taken in in doing that, there were social studies and science positions that were reduced at the middle school, core areas that were reduced to half a year. And so the results of that are clearly seen when kids come up to the high school or go on to college, that they have not had the background through grades six through eight in those core areas that they should have. And so what what this does is restore those positions back where the students get a full year of those core area subjects, which they have not had since the first year. Doctor Goodwin was here. The second year doctor McClure was was here.
NEXT> Unidentified: So which has put Claremont in a competitive position as compared to other schools in the area.

[R10694-134] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in the like, and we looked at a way in which we could both bolster the supports in the education for the students and concentrate that by a grade level approach, instead of having three replicated neighborhood schools, which are a little bit more costly.
TEXT> And our  that with what we came up with as a team over the past week. Okay, so,  the benefits of, of restructuring to a grade level system. Okay. Are that there's and control of class size and staffing assignments, meaning that when you have fluctuations, when you replicate the same model at three different schools, sometimes you can have mismatched class sizes. And you'll see in an upcoming slide that there are some grade level classes that that in some schools that started because of the districting map and for no other reason that we've been tied to historically, that if there's fluctuations in population, whether there's, you know, that that can also affect the size of the school, okay, in the amount of resources within the school. And sometimes that fluctuation happens over the summer and it can't be predicted. So that is one thing. The thing about this program that I'm going to go through with you is that each elementary student would attend each of the elementary schools, okay, all the way through, okay. So it would be complete equity. So there wouldn't be and I'll talk about that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There would be a stronger and consistent targeted curriculum and assessment and interventions at each grade level. In fact, a couple of the schools would only be two grade schools,

[R10694-135] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: thing about this program that I'm going to go through with you is that each elementary student would attend each of the elementary schools, okay, all the way through, okay. So it would be complete equity. So there wouldn't be and I'll talk about that.
TEXT> There would be a stronger and consistent targeted curriculum and assessment and interventions at each grade level. In fact, a couple of the schools would only be two grade schools, so that there would be a focus on that with teams. And we could actually get to and talk about that as well. The specialties of the teachers, some teachers at the elementary, teachers in general, are generalists, and you may have experts in science who aren't as strong as math. And we are. All of our teachers are strong. But when you have a team approach, you can trade off sections, you can combine units. There's a lot of flexibility and control over what you're doing pedagogically. This is what we're we're very excited as well with restructuring the classes. And I'll show you some of the numbers right after this. I just wanted to preface this, but we know that we're able for next year with this restructure and in particular with moving existing resources around, including teachers and title one and a few other strategies that we can offer pre pre-K for students age four. At our at our. We will be refining this over the next few months when we know the exact catchment that's out there of the population, which is hard to determine sometimes, but we we feel comfortable that we can offer 60 seats okay for all day pre-K.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That will greatly increase the literacy of students as they enter the early grades. And foundationally that is the key. When a when a student is reading to learn by

[R10694-138] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: could be and should be less bullying, those types of things where they, they, they know each other and they have more opportunities all the way through the reallocation, as I alluded to before, of teachers. Okay. And we don't think that any teachers whatsoever.
TEXT> Okay. And we've already looked at this. We've looked at applications in which we would bolster other supports and push in content experts looking at at the models. And we spent a lot of time on this, and we're excited to do this along with and we have a staff meeting on Tuesday to start talking about this with the teachers as we build this cadre of team specialists, that we will get the most out of teacher strengths so that they may be able to select grades. Again, this is all predicated upon certifications in seniority and all those other aspects. But with what we need to push in, in the programs that we have in the one that I left out, we're excited that we should be able to offer a, I hate using the term gifted and talented, but an enrichment cohort of students that we've already identified, the way in which we do it, the criteria and all the other things that would go along with this that may be able to occupy where the early childhood program is now in the tech center, they may be able to access  the middle school curriculum, as well as some of the PBS
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: and the opportunities. And the tech center is as soon as fourth and fifth grade, which would be create an advanced cohort that we could carry up, as they are

[R10694-139] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and all the other things that would go along with this that may be able to occupy where the early childhood program is now in the tech center, they may be able to access the middle school curriculum, as well as some of the PBS
TEXT> and the opportunities. And the tech center is as soon as fourth and fifth grade, which would be create an advanced cohort that we could carry up, as they are doing in the middle school and they're doing at the high school, almost an academy fashion, so that we would be catering to our,  all ends of, of service delivery. We would also be able to have embedded special ed programs, not isolated. Okay. As  this is no, it's not a criticism at all, but a function of space with the pre-K program that we have the half day, it is not integrated into an existing school. We would now have the schools. Maple would be the pre k, K and first grade school. And I'll go through the slide in a minute. This would be grades two and three. And bluff would be grades four and five. So that you would have specialized programs throughout those. When they're in a regular elementary school, you have the benefit. Kids have a richer experience because you have a complement of specials, and you have a lot of staff that we would focus on with positions for interventions to have A, B, C, B, A, to have behaviorists, so that we could really focus not only on the curriculum, but how the students are presenting and how they're acclimating to the school environment.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're excited about those as well. So the numbers okay, we're looking at these charts. These are the existing class sizes. And as you read this across you see

[R10694-140] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: staff that we would focus on with positions for interventions to have A, B, C, B, A, to have behaviorists, so that we could really focus not only on the curriculum, but how the students are presenting and how they're acclimating to the school environment.
TEXT> So we're excited about those as well. So the numbers okay, we're looking at these charts. These are the existing class sizes. And as you read this across you see it reads bluff. There's 15 rooms and 12 teachers class size for this year. Okay. Same thing same concept all the way across. You can see the disparity they alluded to before. And this is no reflection other than the demographic of how that year's students in the catchment area start. But you can see these low classes here with only eight in the class. And then you can see in other categories, there's 23 in a class at different schools. What we're proposing. And we did it all out already. And I really want to thank specifically and publicly appreciate not that we don't all the time, but Brynn Cain put a lot of time into how this could be structured. Okay. Looking at all all these numbers into a fantastic job with that, presenting that for us to the principals,  and obviously elementary teacher with the, with the needs and the size and mind of the classes. And this is the first run at this. We also might have a chance to reduce a couple of those classes and co teach.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have a few other models, but the average class size and pre-K would be 12. Okay. 14 in the universal pre-K 1715, 17 and then 19, 18 and 20,

[R10694-150] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: Or.
TEXT> Pick up, like, I wouldn't be able to pick up three kids at three schools at the same time. So I think just as long as that sort of plan is clear moving forward. So parents aren't in a panic as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, we we also and that's part of some of the transportation costs that we talk about. We need replacement on the fleet. But we also know that there's some

[R10694-171] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: You want.
TEXT> Really low numbers for individualized attention, the lower you are.  So that that's what's consistent nationally. So if you're going to make change okay, you can afford high school students. You can afford to go into the 20s all the time. It's ideal if you're if you don't break 20 in an elementary, it's absolutely not a national average. Absolutely not. So there's elementaries that are up up to 30. There's it is not ideal. I'm not advocating that no one is what we don't know. Two, we also have a couple. We don't know if we want to go specialists. We don't know if.
NEXT> Unidentified: We.

[R10694-176] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections from several board membe | 2020-01-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But that that's where we would look. And we still this is not we wanted to vet it for cost and that's why we're here. It is not final yet.
TEXT> The national average according to nine study is 23 students. Yeah. For.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: 14 years I never had anything under 24 students. I was just trying to get out there to. These are great numbers for anybody who's looking at these numbers. These

[R10694-177] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: The national average according to nine study is 23 students. Yeah. For.
TEXT> 14 years I never had anything under 24 students. I was just trying to get out there to. These are great numbers for anybody who's looking at these numbers. These are every every, every kid in every classroom.
NEXT> Unidentified: Here's here's something you have.

[R10694-185] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: First in that. And I'm. A teacher now, and I have.
TEXT> Two students.
NEXT> Unidentified: At the high school.

[R10694-197] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: No, no.
TEXT> No, I mean looping for those at home, we don't know, is when you have the same cohort of kids for multiple years, it's a fabulous model. If you could do it. We haven't even discussed that yet.
NEXT> Unidentified: So. You've got say you have six fifth grade teachers.

[R10694-201] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> That would be sort of the best case scenario, right. Like every every class was sort of running at the same rate and everybody was sort of on the same spot. Now creatively thinking what that tells me is if you've got 125 sixth graders and you've got 20, 21 kids per class, and on one day a teacher sick, you could very easily split three kids per class and send them off for four kids per class to the other classroom, and they'd still get the exact same curriculum that they were getting on the day that the teacher is not there to teach that class.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[R10694-206] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: It's hard to.
TEXT> Teachers plan. They know their students all the way. It's just I'm just gonna I'm going to say it before my. It's very hard to do that. You can't you can't just do that. What you can do that I think they would be open to. And I think that is the best benefit of, of this is that you would you would be able to if someone is if let's say you have a team of, you know, four, six, whatever it is and you know that you have disciplines, you have someone who was a is unbelievable in science or got got an extra mass master's in that or technology or what have you. They could focus, you could start focusing your rotation almost like you would in a middle or high school. That is an incredible value. And you can divide up the content experts within the grade. There's a lot of variability, a lot of value added that way, that and that. Those are some of the conversations that the principals and curriculum team were having.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it was really you just can't do that when you have a couple grades per school. You just can't. You're lucky to stay afloat and then make sure that

[R10694-209] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-15
PREV> Unidentified: I think the big takeaways for me.
TEXT> On is, again, the, what we used to call a guaranteed curriculum and the the ability to,  have a group of people who come up with RTI response to instruction, with targeted interventions so they know all the first grade teachers know who's getting it and who's not getting it. And there's an opportunity to work as a as a group to address those deficiencies. And nobody slips through the cracks. Another is, having been a middle school principal and Mr. Tempesta talked about it a little bit.  There was always a lot of fear and trepidation for, sixth graders coming up in fear of eighth graders. And I would say that that would be true. Even now with first graders, kindergartners being in the same school with fifth graders, because fifth graders are a lot bigger than kindergarten kids. And then the last big takeaway from me are those class sizes, the control of that, where it becomes,  and and again, who wouldn't want their kid to be in that eight eight,  kid room? But again, I don't want my kid in the one the first grade room with 23 or 24, either because that these grades are so important first, second and third.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: If student gets behind their the likelihood of catching up is, as Mike said, that it keeps extrapolating into the upper grades and eventually you have a dropout. So, pedagogically,

[R10704-1] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: budget. After those presentations are complete, we will take citizens comments at that time. And then when we get to that point, then I'll explain what the ground rules of that process will be. So at this time, I'd like to introduce superintendent Mike Tempesta.
TEXT> All right. So I know. So I do want to,  I know that many of you already know we we proposed as part of,  in the last budget presentation, a possible restructuring of of the elementary schools.  Based on a lot of feedback from the community, based on feedback from the staff and knowing how  the intent of that proposal,  particularly looking at  early literacy potential,  pre-K for four year olds,  a lot of benefits in terms of the concentration of what we could add to  to the district  for student supports and interventions. There was a really lot going on with that presentation,  and at this point, we have decided that we're going to push that off to  next year, to looking at it as part of the strategic plan. If I had it to do over again and I was just talking to staff today.  I would have waited to present that out. After we presented the early entry plan  findings, as well as  the beginning of the strategic plan. I really want to emphasize that that at no time  did we have any linkages between that,  that the present budget was contingent upon that,  or in any way related to that, but it was also a way in which we wanted to speak about what we what we could do for students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we also have and I I'm excited to see so many faces here tonight as as Chairman Sprague said, we have the opportunity and we're really looking for this

[R10704-4] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have 14. At least 14 committees going on now looking at things to improve within the district. So that's kind of that's a status report on where we are. So people still welcome the opportunity to come up and hear your feedback on that.
TEXT> But we're also putting up in the What's Happening section on the web page tonight, a place where you can log in and we want to get your information and we want to have a variety of forums. And I would love to hear from parents, even students. Okay. And  that came up today from staff that we should really do a a deep dive into this, have a have a focus group  meet and go over that, particularly for  this spring into the summer and take the time to present it very thoroughly in the fall. So that's what we intend to do. So I can go. Do you want me to go further into the presentation to see the framework of it now, or do we want to of.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The restructuring of the budget of.

[R10704-13] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: A change slides I apologize to people on this side of the screen. I'm going to be referring to a number of items. Do you want to do a lead into this one?
TEXT> Sure, sure. So so when we when we met with the  with the board at our retreat, we, we came up with a bunch of,  questions and driving and goals for the budgeting  process this year. So we just bulleted a bunch of the things that were going on. And  I also alluded to the strategic plan that we're working on. But these were the drivers and the points that we had. And the first was to ensure that the budget that we create and present to you today is, is at least taxpayer neutral or below which it is. Okay. Yes. Yeah. Sorry, I should know better. So we wanted to make sure that the,  that there was no increase to the, to the taxpayer. All right. That was one. We're also looking at efficiencies and programing to ensure that all students in Claremont have a quality to  access to a quality education and to expand, particularly the targeted interventions that we need for kids that are either  behaviorally challenged or  or have special needs students to access the curriculum,  and also the specialized programing and a least restrictive environment to ensure everyone has access to  career and college readiness  when they graduate and go off into the into the world.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There are also many historical gaps in deficiencies that we inherited at the beginning of this process, including the kids that are half scheduled with half a year of science

[R10704-29] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: by far the most into that. Those efficiencies generated a substantial amount of money, which the board decided to reinvest into bringing up the science and social studies positions to full time at the middle school. So I just wanted to throw that in. Okay.
TEXT> We'll go on to the next  slide. The next slide speaks to the revenues. Or basically how do we fund this budget?  What you see at the at the top of this graph is what I will call a plug number. Once we take all of the different dollars that we receive from the state or from other places, how much has to be raised by us, the taxpayers. And what we're looking at is a reduction in what needs to be raised by us, the taxpayers, from 16.5 million down to 15.4 million. So we are seeing a reduction of what we're looking to raise from the residents and the taxpayers of Claremont. We have a number of items that we bring in each year tuition from other towns, such as unity, who send their kids to our high school. We charge them a a tuition, kids who come to our vocational center or come to this building. We charge them also a tuition. The combination, they're about 640 zero $0. We receive a reimbursement from the state for transportation fees, approximately 6000 interest income from our expendable trust, and the dollars that have been put aside for,  for the school district is approximately 60,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And pupil activities, monies that come in approximately 1500. I also have a number here of approximately $175,000 of a catch, all called other, revenue sources. This is contribution. These

[R10704-30] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: them also a tuition. The combination, they're about 640 zero $0. We receive a reimbursement from the state for transportation fees, approximately 6000 interest income from our expendable trust, and the dollars that have been put aside for, for the school district is approximately 60,000.
TEXT> And pupil activities, monies that come in approximately 1500. I also have a number here of approximately $175,000 of a catch, all called other,  revenue sources. This is contribution. These are people who make contributions to the school or other dollars that come in over the course of the year. And again, it's been reasonably consistent year after year after year. The fund balance to reduce taxes, which is, once we conclude our audit from last year, how much what was our surplus from last year and how much it's available to bring across into this year or into next year, excuse me, approximately $400,000. So from those local sources, 16.6 million. It's down a little bit from the from from last year. But again, because we're raising less taxes, adequate education grants. Now, we had the governor who was here, who was talking through the fact the legislature had stepped up and was improving the amount of money coming to towns such as Claremont as it relates to adequate education. Adequate education grant is up $1.2 million from the state from last year.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I'm sorry. From this year to next year, there are then two more categories which allow us to do these capital improvements and allow us to do these one time

[R10704-32] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: us to pay for them without having to take it from the taxpayers. The kindergarten aid I'm showing on here in asterisk. The reason for that is the kindergarten aid has been rolled up into the adequate education grants number. It hasn't gone to zero.
TEXT> It's just been moved geographically. State property tax is a number we can get from the state from the state. Property tax revenues at the state level is estimated by the state at 1 million 353, down a little bit from this year. Catastrophic aid, which is the aid that we receive, is relayed to special ed placement students once they go over. I believe it's a $50,000 number 56. Once the cost of out placing or the cost of placing a special ed child is over $56,000, we receive what is above that from the state, or some percentage of it, and estimating that to be level at what we're anticipating for this year and then Medicaid,  I've dropped the Medicaid projection from 540,000 to 260,000. For those that have been following the Medicaid discussion at the state level,  we're not anticipating being able to receive the level of Medicaid that we have received. Historically. There are changes in the law. There are changes in implementation of the Medicaid reimbursement. So I've reduced that to 260,000, but nonetheless, the total state revenues increases from 14 for 14.4 million this year to $18.1 million next year.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Again, the biggest part of this is that one time fiscal 21 free and reduced additional aid and fiscal capacity disparity aid. When we take that and roll it back

[R10704-82] Dave | Public commenter, Ward 3 (surname not given) | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Anyone else in the from the community like to speak? Yes, sir.
TEXT> Dave Ward three.  First and foremost, I like to say thank you for  joining the restructuring for another year. Kind of a sigh of relief there.  But I do have a lot of concerns about  how the restructuring is going to affect everybody, not just the parents, the students, but the teachers as well.  I'm a husband of a teacher. And I know there's probably a lot of teachers that are really concerned about what am I going to do when I've got to uproot everything  that I've been building my library, my books, my furniture, whatever it is that's involved.  And I've been in this place for six, seven, ten, 15 years, and then I'm going to have to take that and move it somewhere else,  and I'm going to have to do that. Well, when, when is that going to happen? You know, that's that's those are concerns that I have because, you know,  I'm a husband and I know I'm I'm going to be knee deep in it too, because I'm not going to let her, you know, move stuff around by,  by herself. So I mean, it just it involves  all of us more so than just the teachers.
NEXT> Dave: It affects all of us. I'm concerned about the children. You have siblings that are 2 or 3 years apart. I look at that, and I see that these schools

[R10704-113] Brianna Gordon | Public commenter, Ward 2 (chair calls her 'Sabrina' then 'Brianna') | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: that the administration is writing down what you're saying because you are bringing up things that that we haven't necessarily thought about. And that's what's nice about this dialog that we're having is it is an opportunity to hear varying concerns from varying perspectives. So.
TEXT> I mean, growing up in the Claremont School System, I went to Disney. So I'm comfortable bringing my kids there knowing that I know the teachers and, you know, around the building and things like that. So I know what to expect, when to expect it. But those parents that are coming in for the first time and having to have their child who does have, you know, disabilities or need that extra somebody to stand there to say, okay, I'm going to speak up for you. But once you get to second grade, it's going to be sorry. See you later. You know, you you got to think in context for that as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I.

[R10704-115] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Unidentified: So I.
TEXT> Can speak to that. So so we've initially started looking at that and we've allotted we know that we have the space to have programs at each level. We also know that in the case of the autism program and things like that, that we're focused on that program and we're looking to we actually have a committee going out to visit a few programs next week. And we know that the overall program for for that clientele all the way through, we're going to substantially beef it up, get a curriculum,  have a lot of supports all the way, all the way through what's not completely vetted. And you raise a great point on that. And we talked about it today with the entire faculty at the elementaries, is we still have the issue, as you're saying, of more transitions. How do we get through those transitions? We're hoping, okay, in the in,  in, we're hoping that by focusing on the specificity of the curriculum and having more interventions along the route, we also can have more formal bridging ceremonies and things like that to to transition kids up for the next big school, as a teacher put it today.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And there's there's ways to do that. Do we the reason we pump the brakes, as they say and said, there's questions like that and there's a few others. Those,

[R10704-149] Vicky White | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Right. We'll be here.
TEXT> Hi. Vicky White, Ward three. I just wanted to bring up one thing with the restructuring. My daughter, who is not yet in the school district, would transition three times by fifth grade. My son, who is already attending Dennard in kindergarten, would transition back and forth five times by fifth grade. So that's another piece to consider. The number of transitions for children already enrolled. And then I just had one question. When the details are worked out, is this going to go for a citizen vote?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carol, like Carolyn, hasn't spoken.

[R10704-152] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: questions until this is presented. Product is my feeling. We haven't talked about it as far as how it's going to go forward, and I think we've had very good input tonight so that we can have that conversation. And that's my feeling about it.
TEXT> You know, from a base standpoint at the very minimum. And this guy suggested that it affects more than this, but in and of itself, it's going to affect a minimum of the  parents of 750 or 800 kids, right, plus grandparents and everybody else.  So, you know, my thought would simply be that we go through the process of fully vetting this appropriately, and I would be perfectly comfortable, and I would actually think it would be very good to have a vote on it. I mean, if it's going to affect that many people. I don't think it should be left to seven of us.  And, yeah, I'm good with that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R10704-161] Samantha Fontaine | Public commenter, Maple Avenue school parent | 2020-01-21
PREV> Samantha Fontaine: be allowed to get off the bus because they do not allow children under grade three to get off the bus without an adult there. I work, I don't get on to 530. My husband gets home about four 430. They won't drop him off.
TEXT> If my two sons are together, they will let them go and be home. So I feel like the busting rules would have to change a little bit in order for this to happen, because, I mean, we've been having some issues with that. And also, I of course do not want my children separated. They rely a lot on each other.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you, thank you, thank you and good luck. Yes. Right in the middle.

[R10704-165] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Shelly: So I would really appreciate it if we could discuss the driving force with this three configuration restructuring. What whatever you'd like to call it.
TEXT> So, as I mentioned before, what we looked at was the gains for the  four year old pre-K. Okay, the early literacy.  We also, thought, as I mentioned, to the to the faculty today, to that we would have the benefit of having team experts at each level and also through the process of self-selection and looking at credentials and things like that, that with the focus being  particularly  how students present with the host of of challenges, as people have mentioned, you know, this evening. For kids who aren't even necessarily special ed students that we would be able with the focus on just 1 or 2 grades. So fourth and fifth grade or second and third grade, for example, we would have focused interventions in with the focus from the principal all the way down to the team leaders to the, to the teaming. The curriculum would be tighter. The interventions would happen sooner. The mediation would be more kind of laser focused. You would get a benefit of the same cohort of students going all the way through the grades together that we we would think would be beneficial, beneficial, particularly when they get to middle school and things like that, that they would have a cohort all the way through.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They would get to know their peers sooner all the way through. All of those reasons were part of our rationale to to pursue this. And they and they still

[R10704-166] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: benefit of the same cohort of students going all the way through the grades together that we we would think would be beneficial, beneficial, particularly when they get to middle school and things like that, that they would have a cohort all the way through.
TEXT> They would get to know  their peers sooner all the way through. All of those reasons were  part of our rationale to to pursue this. And they and they still are like, if we if we, we  still have as has has been, you know, spoken about tonight. We have many things that we have we have to vet to see if this is worthwhile going through. The two biggest ones that have been said over and over tonight are transportation in the transitions. Okay. So if those things don't if we don't have answers for those things, then it's not clear that it's it's worthwhile to focus on those things and to free up the, the six teachers and control the enrollment to kind of divide that that  exists throughout the district where we have, you know, some classes with 23 students, in some classes with eight students in them. So in terms of a whole equity piece, and also to have the benefit as well  of the the play based social pragmatics and early literacy adoption for the pre-K. All the studies. And we all have research that we'll share as part of this committee and put it out there. If you start sooner with literacy and a student is is ready to reading to learn by third or fourth grade, the studies and the perseverance rates, both in middle school and high school and on to college are significant, really significant.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And those those were the things that we were looking at. So there's a lot of evidence base to that. Do we have a lot to do? And many people

[R10704-170] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2020-01-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Further comments from the community. Further comments from the school board. I'll share. Sure.
TEXT> So, when I first heard of this proposal, it was it took me back a little bit, you know, the same as everybody else. And, I wanted to spout off a smidge in the beginning because it was scary and there was a lot of unknowns, but I really needed to reel myself in and tell myself that I need to get educated. And I feel like that's where I am right now. There's things that, don't make me happy about it. There's things that I worry about for parents. I'm not a single parent, but I would have been a parent of three kids, three schools, so I can empathize with that. You know, I am in special ed, so I empathize with special Ed, and I am in education, so I empathize with children in general. So,  I just need to keep telling myself that I am very interested in learning more about it. I, I, have been paying attention to the community feedback and listening to my colleagues in my other school setting who I've been talking to about this, and I think there's a lot of great things that can happen and come from this.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I also think there's a lot of questions just like everybody else. So I'm not for I'm not against. I'm just extremely curious and, hoping that that a lot of

[R10704-427] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-01-21
PREV> Jason Benware: Year, getting out of school before July is always a good idea to. Yeah.
TEXT> Anybody who's ever been in any public school with kids in late June knows that's not what you want to.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Be.

[R10722-1] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: call to order and welcome you to the February 6th deliberative session. I'd like to ask board member Carolyn told to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Thank you, Mrs. Tom. I'd like to ask Claremont Superintendent Michael Tempesta to use the administrative staff.
TEXT> I think that introduce  a student representative for. Student representative to the school committee. Yes. Small.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Can't hear you.

[R10722-3] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Can't hear you.
TEXT> Okay. Sorry about that. Oh. That's better. Student representative. Tyler Sullivan,  Jeff Small, our technology director. Richard Seaborn, our director of finance. Matt Upton, school attorney. And, so we have.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Mr. Kim. I'd like to now ask chairman of Claremont School Board Frank Sprague to introduce the school board and school district officers.

[R10722-6] Tracy Pope | Claremont School District Moderator (addressed as 'Tracy' [312] and 'M | 2020-02-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sitting at the far end as vice chair Rebecca Zullo, Rob Lovett, Carolyn Toll, Michael Patron, Jason Benoit, and Frank Sprague and a Mary Whitman.
TEXT> Thank you, Chairman Sprague, before we begin this evening's meeting, I'd like to thank Stephens High School students who are providing childcare this evening as part of their community service. Also, two people who go unrecognized. But we're very hard every time we hold a district meeting. Melissa Small, administrative assistant at the offices who does all the organizing of the meeting, printing of the papers that you have, and Dale Bonnell, the head custodian at Stevens High School who sets up this gym for the meetings. Thank you both. One of the handouts available to you this evening was the deliberative session Rules of Procedure. I hope you took a few minutes to look this over. These are the rules for tonight's meeting and will govern how the meeting is conducted. Before I continue, I'd like to review a few of these rules. Proponents of inadequacy leap first and then be given five minutes to speak. Debate will then be remitted to two minutes per speaker. I will be using a timer and when the timer goes off, I will expect you to stop speaking and return to your seat. Speakers must be recognized by the moderator. All speakers will approach the podium. There's a log in sheet on the podium.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Please print clearly and then state your name and ward of residence. The two minute timer will begin at that point. On a personal note, I was recently told that

[R10722-45] Chris Sununu | Governor of New Hampshire, recorded video played in the presentation ( | 2020-02-01
PREV> Chris Sununu: is the, the school infrastructure grants. Again, I wanted to bring back to school building a we compromised and said, well, instead of again, the $65 million for some of the bigger school building aid projects, let's make sure that everybody gets to share that.
TEXT> They said great, and they came up with a formula to make sure that, again, everyone's getting a check. We saw a lot of schools out there, and I this isn't a not necessarily here in Claremont, but there were schools out there we saw that had windows painted shut and leaky, leaky roofs and doorways that were close all the way in the winter. And it was like, boy, if they could just get 50 or 60 or $100,000 to take care of those issues, issues that had plagued them for quite some time, it could make all the difference in the world. And so really, that's where this one time money was designed. We should ask kids to go to school. Good.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right. So good. Just to carry from that. I'll go next slide.

[R10722-48] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: The trick.
TEXT> All right. So these are the goals that Jason spoke about for the meeting that we would deliver the the tax neutral budget create efficiencies and programing robust specialized programing for all populations and the least restrictive environment so that all kids have access to  career college readiness of graduations,  address the gaps. Again that have been mentioned, particularly in science in in social studies in the middle school, negotiated the contracts and most importantly, that last call it and I can speak to this to just to highlight a little bit is we we have at least and I haven't gone back more than two years on this, but the records that I do have shows that we have had a historic 20 to 35% turnover rate in of teachers Paris in and workforce in in public schools.  A lot of that didn't talk from exit surveys and from other discussions with people. And just to look side by side of the grades of salaries, we were not competitive. And now we are in the game. So we're hoping that that, along with our professional development in the great work environments that we have, keep people long term.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There is nothing that replaces the the sanctity of the classroom and the bond between the teacher, the student and the curriculum. It is everything in the education of our

[R10722-55] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: actually estimated to be an $800,000 expense. So we are bringing the cost of these out of district charges down. The challenge you have, of course, without a district special education charges is we don't know the kids that we're going to have in town.
TEXT> If someone moves in and they have a high cost special ed out or district charge, we have no choice but to but to pay that. This is not an arbitrary it's not something we can decide to do or not to do. An example of this is we did have a kid where we're looking at coming back into district that has a $200,000 out of district charge, and this is something we can't handle here. It has to be handled where this kid always going. So the charge that costs behind that 519 are very detailed. Then after the special ed can show the kiddo of the transportation. All the costs are related  to what we have in there, but it is an increase from the budget that we put together last year, going into next year, just now going on our individual buildings, the Bluff School you can see is relatively flat.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: It's up $28,000. Maple Avenue School is up on a 274,000. The reason for that is we did move programs into that building. And what I'm doing here is not

[R10722-59] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: work our way back, work the first line, which line? 1121 district assessment. And those are the dollar is being raised by our taxes. So once you take all the everybody's we're receiving from the various sources, that's actually our plug number at the end.
TEXT> And you can see we're looking at raising from our taxes one, about 1.2 million less next year then being raised this year. So let's work our way down because the budget as we know is up. So let's work our way down tuition that we have from in-state students coming from other districts into our district. We receive about $600,000. Tuition for our vocational education is still about 40,000. You see, this is this is flat year over year. It's been very consistent.  Transportation fees. This is people reimbursing us for any transportation we provide  at 6000. Interesting. Come on on. Deposits are on, the ones that we have with the trustees, approximately 60,000 pupil activities.  You know, we all know at the end of those about 1500 and then other 175,000 are contributions, donations, other monies that come in from our varying levels of sources and those being kept really quite flat. The fund balance to reduce taxes, which is a surplus from from last year that we carried into next year when we complete our audit, the audit is underway for fiscal 19. We anticipate about $400,000 will be available to us. So whatever surplus was there gets carried over and gets put into next year's budget. Now down on to the state sources.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So Mike spoken through a little bit on the adequate education grant. So it increased from the 12.1 to 13.38 for next year. Then we have these two one time

[R10722-120] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - same 'crystal ball' / 'pred | 2020-02-01
PREV> Gloria: the year after. I mean, I know that we're going to be having a reduced rate for this year, but what about the future years? I'm looking you know, what's that difference going to be. Are we going to be above where we are now.
TEXT> So  so I'm not the finance guy and I'm certainly I don't have a crystal ball. So what I can tell you is, is that we have a very, With someone transient town people come and go a lot. We can have a family that moves in next week that has four kids with  needs, and increase our special  budget by $600,000. We could have people move out and it could change at the other direction. What we're doing is trying to be proactive with the programs we're setting up. So we send less kids out of district, we keep them in district, and we reduce our education costs for them while giving them a better educational opportunity while being closer to home.  Okay, can I tell you what it's going to be two years from now? I couldn't tell you it was going to be two years from now. Well, I can say is we're doing proactive measures to make it as  least damaging as possible and hopefully save us money over time. If I could predict the future, I'd be a millionaire and I wouldn't probably be here. But, at this time, I think we're doing things for the future that will make things better for us down the road.
NEXT> Gloria: And I'm trying to just predict what my budget is going to be for, not next year, but the year after as well, because we don't know what the economy

[R10722-123] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes Tempesta, Sprague, Benware, a recorded vi | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak in favor of or against this article that hasn't spoken yet?
TEXT> Good evening. John MC Ward one. Many. Times I've set up on this board at these meetings and listened to this. I got on the school board and my youngest child was in elementary school at Nagle Avenue. My youngest child has been out of high school for four years now. Many of those items that are on that list were on the list when I was on the school board 12, 16 years ago. The kitchen equipment at the middle school has been there. We have lots of lots of rooms with 90 styles. People in the building industry, no 94 tiles are. They have us. We see a little from when I was on the board. We went through brick and tiles out of one room or two rooms at a time, because that's all we had the money for. The HVAC was an issue  way back then, and all these schools hot in one room, cold in another. We replaced windows at these buildings. It didn't help me fix the heating systems. It's very hard to sit as a child and be hot and try to learn or be cold and try to learn. It just doesn't work. It makes our  jobs or our staff that much more harder.
NEXT> Unidentified: The roof said all the buildings, if you drive the the tech center is the easiest roof to see, that it's big. You can see it when you drive up

[R10722-137] Samantha Bailey | Public commenter, Ward 3; former para, now a teacher (ASR 'Samantha Ba | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Again. Anyone wishing to speak that hasn't spoken yet. Well, you're right, sir.
TEXT> Samantha Bailey awards. Three  at the time. So. I  started out as a para. I'm now a teacher. But when I initially was offered the job, I had to reject it.  Due to the pay.  There was no way I could support. Oh, dear. Wow. That happened. Quick. I had to reject the job. I was extremely excited to work in the school and help students, but I found that the pay was not even close to support a family. So after working for an additional two years to try and save up no money. My husband volunteered to work two jobs so that I could get a job as a para. And then I worked going to school  at during the parish so that I could become a teacher to help students and  enjoy a career filled a place at this district. Passing this will help us get more able bodies for parents, and actually keep parents that need to stay and help support them so that they're not working two jobs themselves,  or having their spouse work multiple jobs to help them to support a basic family that we should all be entitled to. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Thank you.

[R10722-148] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-02-01
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: This is a one time opportunity where the local lumber company is giving us excess wood. And you're saying you'd be more willing to throw it into the fireplace and let it burn and waste away than fixing the patches in your in your wall?
TEXT> This is a unique opportunity for us to improve Claremont for a long term. This is a unique opportunity for us to improve the state of life for both standard students and special education students, and it would be beyond foolish for us to throw away this opportunity because of a savings, a few dollars for one year. I think that taking advantage of this now is the best effort. I think it would be a slap in the face for everyone that has worked so tirelessly to not take advantage of this. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R10722-174] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (moderator recognizes 'Rebecca zero' | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Mrs.. Did you wish to speak to it first? Yes.
TEXT> Sorry, I just wanted to say I work on this one two, and I've been in the school system for a total of almost 22 years now. And I always wonder, you know, in in positions like Paris, I think there are many children in teaching. And I always think, would I ever tell my kids to be a parent or whatever I can to be a teacher? And the answer is no, because I don't know how they survive sometimes. So in my opinion, the parents are the backbone of the school. Everybody is equally important, but I've worked with so many pairs over the years who have been  beat on slapped. He and and it's discouraging to me to know that they could go to Walmart literally, and be a Walmart greeter and make more money than what you pay them. Working with some of our immediate children and helping everybody in the building, not just teachers. So I'm 1,000,000% in support of this and and I always will be.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak against this radical. Anyone wishing to speak to this article. Seeing that our close discussion.

[R10768-37] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Is that all of your kids? How many kids have you got?
TEXT> That was all of our afternoon kids. So I think we had 36. We said. Or 30? No, we had 39 today.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And how many do you have in the morning?

[R10768-39] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: And how many do you have in the morning?
TEXT> We have 45. It's about that we're close to full, so we think we can have 90. And right now there was some kids absent. But,  that's our whole afternoon. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other questions.

[R10768-43] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (cluster may also carry other male membe | 2020-03-04
PREV> Paige Jarvis: growth from birth to three. I mean, think about the amazing amount of brain growth and then from 3 to 6, all those social emotional domains, particularly social emotional learning to cope with feelings and, manage your belongings and those kinds of things. So, yeah.
TEXT> On that same vein and Ben or well, maybe not Ben, but somebody may have this. We've been doing it now for a few years.  The preschool. Right. So do we have any, studies for the incoming, kindergarten kids as far as achievement being different now that we have this versus before we had it.
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: So we've started using some universal screening tools. Last year was our first year screening kindergartners with the same tool that we're screening for preschool. So we have that data

[R10768-60] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: learning about navigating the Fafsa, scholarship opportunities, and information on how to access and resources for paying for college. March brings about multiple important events for the Stuart Council and Department. All temperatures will be taped in the city on March 18th in the gym.
TEXT> I'm 25th. All 11th graders will be taking the SAT and the SAS gym. We have been working with the 11th graders and gentlemen prepared for the test throughout Khan Academy, and we will be going over test strategies with them as we get closer to the date. So let the sophomores have one. Participated in a  marked green dot Brennan and the bystander program in conjunction with the Telc Family Resource Center, in an effort to identify how they can help steward climate and culture going forward. The freshman class will participate in the SLS Signs of Suicide program the week of April 6th, which will teach them how to identify classmates, friends, and family members who may be entering suicidal thoughts and protocols on how to help them. This is in conjunction with the Connors Climb Foundation. SAS and the veteran was personnel on a workforce committee to identify what needs  are for students locally when they graduate and or finished college, in a possible ascended learning opportunities, and our internships with local businesses at almost all the  time. Packets will be going out soon for local scholarships at the end of March. Seed, which is the summer enrichment at Dartmouth, will be attending a full day immersion program in Boston on Saturday, April 4th from 7:30 a.m. to 6:00 pm. 12 juniors at Stephens High School are devoting part of the 2019 2020 school year to work with student mentors.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: College Readiness Course would participate in an academic enrichment opportunities as part of our new partnership with Dartmouth College. Senior play, which is the internet is distract. Oh look a

[R10768-61] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: the summer enrichment at Dartmouth, will be attending a full day immersion program in Boston on Saturday, April 4th from 7:30 a.m. to 6:00 pm. 12 juniors at Stephens High School are devoting part of the 2019 2020 school year to work with student mentors.
TEXT> College Readiness Course would participate in an academic enrichment opportunities  as part of our new partnership with Dartmouth College. Senior play, which is the internet is distract. Oh look a kitten with me nets weekend I'm out 13th and 14th at 7 p.m.. The show that shows description as Micah only has 20 minutes to finish a paper on The Great Gatsby. She just needs to check a few facts on the internet first. Unfortunately, the web is a nefarious, wacky place where bots and cats, Facebook letters and thrown names. So instead of a major Stewart OS, which financial paper and state police before the school bell rings  I I  ought to in comedy that applause the rabbit hole of distraction. We are down every time we go online. The are $7 for general admission, $5 for senior citizens and children. Under eight is a great way to support the class of 2020. I am in this play and it's a pretty funny play.  On March 21st, the Student Voice will be hosting the Student Voice Conference at the high school from 8 to 2 p.m., with students attending from all across New Hampshire for Claremont Middle School.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: The project, the eighth grade project based learning group called Destination Boston, is hosting As We Ready Dinner on Friday, March 6th from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in The

[R10768-63] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: April. From April, I have a tweet across America a week for all of the schools. So it's about Doctor Seuss. I'm not too sure about what's going on, but I know there's a bunch of themed days. And for the sun and there's nothing.
TEXT> Questions or comments. I actually have a couple. I want to make sure this is the former, guidance student services person throwing in a plug the for the financial aid night, the  filling out the paperwork. That's huge.  A lot of people start work going through the Fafsa on their own, and it gets very, very confusing, very fast. And, so I would encourage people to if you've got a student attending college next fall,  that's a must do for you to attend that you'll have access to experts that will help with that financial aid, getting your Fafsa filled out. The other one is the, the Stevens  High School alumni. Not alumni, but the scholarship fund, which is a lot of money. And, it was when my experience was like pulling teeth, trying to get people to apply for that. And,  parents approaching after saying, well, how come I, son or daughter didn't get any money and it's because they didn't apply. Well, why didn't you call me? Why didn't you let me know they weren't applying? So I want to make sure that that parents are aware and ones that doom. And in May maybe. So that's that's a really that how much money is that. It's ten. It's tens of thousands of dollars, is it not.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Two years ago they.

[R10768-81] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Mary Woodman: They got their paper at the alumni banquet saying they've got it, but they never came and picked up their scholarship.
TEXT> So parents out there listening, kids out there listening, this is this is big money. So make sure you get it done. There are also many colleges that provide 50, 60.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: $70,000 over the course of four years. So if you get those book awards, there are a couple of other ones. They are you. They're worth significant dollars. If you

[R10768-98] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (cluster may also carry other male membe | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Questions for Mrs. Chesney.
TEXT> Go ahead. I think anytime we're engaging kids in these types of activities, it's great. I think we need more civics. In our schools in general.  The understanding of government seems to have gone away at some point in time. And, and I think it's good that we're doing this. So I'm fully in support of it. And I'd like to make a motion to allow this trip to occur.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll second.

[R10768-115] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: do that. So, the mentoring and the mentoring programs and induction we have, they're already phenomenal and sponsored by a lot of donations from local businesses and really make folks feel welcome. We're looking to expand some of those things as well for next year.
TEXT> Safety efforts, lockdowns, the at risk students in general. This is a piece that I was alluding to before. One of the things we're looking part is part of the safety plan is making sure we have enough interventions earlier. We have enough,  clinicians or adjustment counselors at each grade level, not just one for the entire district, but looking at the interventions. And that we get as is something that we need so that kids,  excuse me, students have enough support to get through, okay. All the way through. So,  school base needs assessment first and then the autism Behavioral and Alternative school program  and the school councils. I'm going to post all of this. I know I'm flying through this right now. It's a lot to take in. So for the board and for the people at home. But just wanted to give feedback  ahead of the presenting out. We'll also try to have the people to present out  on the on the committees. But I, I said in my I said online I would present in February and I'm presenting in February whether whether we're whether we're done or not. Okay.  So but but we will we will have the final stuff before the summer.  I don't know.
NEXT> Unidentified: Could I, do you sure.

[R10768-117] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Could I, do you sure.
TEXT> It was kind of, really comprehensive. Thank you very much. I just had a couple of questions about stakeholder groups. Sure.  I found one thing that I felt  perhaps we could have improved upon, or  perhaps have a future group is for placement or more, gifted students. Yes, because I think we have a deficit there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. And that was one that was also something in mind for the for the elementary piece to start getting that that cohort early, as well as academy structures for

[R10768-118] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: just had a couple of questions about stakeholder groups. Sure. I found one thing that I felt perhaps we could have improved upon, or perhaps have a future group is for placement or more, gifted students. Yes, because I think we have a deficit there.
TEXT> Yeah. And that was one that was also something in mind for the for the elementary piece to start getting that that cohort early, as well as academy structures for middle school and high school. And and we do need to have we there's two things. Okay. We need the AP, but we also need to expand and promote and really promote and market. And I know our guidance counselors do a great job of it, but it's such an amazing resource we have with Running Start, I think. I think running start is much more advantageous in so many ways than even advanced placement. And and for kids who can't afford the $75. And basically just so we say it publicly, if you're not familiar with that, please check with the folks at Stevens. It's it's a structure where you get credit from Stevens High School. And I'm thinking of the composition course in general that I observed the other day and follow up. But you also get college credit at the same time, and even at Keene State or Plymouth State or a state school. That freshman English credit, if you had to pay for it, would be 2000 or $2500 to get those credits.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's an amazing value. And it also, and I know that my, my daughters have, one took advantage of this and the other is looking to do it as

[R10768-119] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and follow up. But you also get college credit at the same time, and even at Keene State or Plymouth State or a state school. That freshman English credit, if you had to pay for it, would be 2000 or $2500 to get those credits.
TEXT> So it's an amazing value. And it also,  and I know that my, my daughters have, one took advantage of this and the other is looking to do it as well when they, when she's entering college next year is not only that, it gives you more time. So you get the credit, you saved the money, but you have more time. As most students now, many students take semesters abroad and they travel and they do things that are it's, man, if we had it to do over again, right? Yes. Jason.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I know there's a and I don't know how well it is known, but at the middle school level in the sixth grade, there's a thing I believe it's called

[R10768-120] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (cluster may also carry other male membe | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So you get the credit, you saved the money, but you have more time. As most students now, many students take semesters abroad and they travel and they do things that are it's, man, if we had it to do over again, right? Yes. Jason.
TEXT> I know there's a  and I don't know how well it is known, but at the middle school level in the sixth grade, there's a thing I believe it's called student talent search. Sure. And my daughter just got something a week or two ago about it. And basically that's a free program through Unh. And they essentially mentor kids who think they may want to go to college, especially kids who have maybe less opportunity than others. Yeah. And so there are some things, I think one of the things overall  we could do as a district, and I think we're working toward that, is just advertising it better. I mean, there is stuff out there, and I think more stuff certainly never hurts. Yeah. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No. And just and again that's that will be identified thing to follow up on. Yes. Because you.

[R10768-154] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah.
TEXT> The good news for the district, though, the school district is that  children are not really considered, that our age group is not not restored. And so that should make people kind of have a little bit of a sigh of relief. And it's actually the flu that's going around is more at risk to children and than the coronavirus is.
NEXT> Unidentified: So okay.

[R10768-166] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: to the board. And sort of a recommendation that is not only related to how do we handle our decisions around food, but we also have to go through are we going to renew with Abby Group upcoming because their contract goes through June 30th?
TEXT> And you know, we have to we have to have that. We have to have that that decision made or that conversation, as it relates to outstanding debt, which is an ongoing I do not have updated numbers. Assuredly, it's continued to increase because there's nothing that's going on in the country that is reducing outstanding debt.  I know that there are state efforts underway. There's an awful lot of conversation underway. This is an ongoing problem. How do we wrap our heads run? It's not just an individual school district.  So I will continue to update on that one. But our bigger challenge is how do we have more kids eating food such that if we do have unpaid bills within the financial structure of our food service, we're able to absorb that? It doesn't become another part of the question. It becomes a part of the overall financial model that we have for food. So if if I could, as a request to bring this, probably at the next meeting and it'll be, you know, quite a bit more in depth as far as what are the financial what's the financial model of food service within school districts? And if I get assistance? Heather, thank you for for  for participating on this. If there are others that would like to that would be great. Also gives me a chance to sort of test the presentation and see if I'm heading down the right direction.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Caroline Had has expressed this is another I know if it's your your next after, I know you have a lot of interest in this and I had looked through

[R10768-183] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (cluster may also carry other male membe | 2020-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: No, I wasn't thinking that. I was thinking I'm just saying lunch.
TEXT> The conversation was, you know, there had been things, anecdotal things from people who talked to me and others and my own children, for instance. And, and it's sort of the same conversation, I think it was last year where I've had it basically said, well, the quality of the food seems to have gone down. This is just coming from kids, of course. But how do you have that conversation? I mean, the fact is, is the person who sits across from me. No it hasn't, I mean, there, so I don't know if it's worth it or not because the conversation is going to be, well, this is how it is. And, or they run out of food so that they have to give an alternate meal. Well, yes, it's a business. So they don't want to have too much food. So, you know, the fact is, is you're better off running out than having a lot of leftovers, I get it.  They're trying to run a business, but I'm not sure what the answer is or how you can prognosticate that stuff. So I'm not really sure if it's worth it.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And I, I guess part of what I was hoping to do is there's a lot of discussion of kids are getting food and they don't like it, or they

[R10768-184] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Jason Benware: is you're better off running out than having a lot of leftovers, I get it. They're trying to run a business, but I'm not sure what the answer is or how you can prognosticate that stuff. So I'm not really sure if it's worth it.
TEXT> And I, I guess part of what I was hoping to do is there's a lot of discussion of kids are getting food and they don't like it, or they have to take this in order to have a what qualifies as a free meal or a reduced meal. And I'm not sure if there's an understanding. I don't sure I have an understanding if I'm going through the line, you know, yeah, I want this, this and you have to take this and that to really again to to treat it as if we were in line. And you got to take this, this and you can sit and look and say, you know, is there any way not to have to take whatever it might be or would be? And then it's a combination of educating us, just us with what that process is. So when we have discussions on how come kids are throwing away so much, when you talk with the group, you don't have to throw it away. You don't have to get it and drop it in the hey, you can get an apple and put this, or there are different things that can be done. So just trying to eliminate some of the either misperception or different perceptions of what's the amount of food type of food that has to be received. If not, I mean, there's no reason to bring them if there's not an interest in it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So Heather and then Tyler.

[R10768-186] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So Heather and then Tyler.
TEXT> As from what I've kind of gleaned through my  not my shallow dive in this, is that there is a lot of restrictions on what can be served,  and a lot of it is things that kids don't like. For instance, I think they have to have legume served, am I correct? And I know there's legislation federally that's being bounced around now to kind of, loosen up those restrictions to allow school districts because there's been a huge outcry nationally at the volume of waste, that the that all these programs are generating. So it's very nutritious food that nobody's eating.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R10768-195] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> So I have a couple of things. So one of the reasons why I think the fish is not being eaten a lot is because there's some students who just want a sandwich, and then they make you get them out with it.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Make you get a wet with it.

[R10768-197] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: Make you get a wet with it.
TEXT> I'm out or a juice or so. They make you disappointed with it. And you can't have the sandwich unless you have the milk with it. And I know some ones I don't want the market doesn't want the sandwich. And then, before the Abbey Group came, the drama program was doing a coffee stand, and that was done a lot of business. I think that was when Mr. Nesta was there, and maybe when you were there.  But. And that was a lot of business. And  at lunches, sometimes the food, like the bananas are, like, almost bad,  and you have to do the food and  they're almost bad, and you don't want to dip the food. So you put it in the share basket and then the share basket Dover flown. So nobody wants to touch that.  And so I mean it's just the restriction like not everybody wants the main course and then the soup and then the food which you have to have the main course, the food and the drink. So I don't know if there's a way that you guys can look around that and make it so a student can actually get just the main course, because they might have bought a motor, a food from home.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: And then, I mean, I know that the food's improved from when we used to have a different food source through the district. It's improved, but some days there's bad

[R10768-209] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections from several voices (inc | 2020-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: But again, I.
TEXT> Think I also think it's it's part of the law because when we when we just had our evaluation, they said we couldn't have we couldn't offer food to kids that were, like the chips and stuff from the, the food shelves.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yeah. That's and again some of these and and Tyler thank you for for raising these are, these are the questions which we can all discuss but we don't know

[R10768-223] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Ask for forgiveness.
TEXT> Well, it's not even forgiveness. I mean, you can always find a reason not to if you want to read through the laws. Any lawyer can do that. So I'm looking to the other side of find us a way that we can do it. And how do we get around offering coffee in place of of milk or some other kind of drink in place of milk so that kids want to have the breakfast and it's just and, you know, those are the questions I think that we need to be asking.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I never hear any, our neighbors to the to the east, Newport uses fresh picks. Yeah, but I never hear any discussion from there or about lunch that. No,

[R10768-230] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Last question on this topic.
TEXT> Well, I just want to add that, the of the Abu Group was trying to do a taste test at breakfast the other morning, and kids just kept walking by and it was actually a good food. I forget what it was. So they do a lot of taste test events, which was rude, which I mean, so yeah, the majority of its did, but there are some days where it's not good. I mean, I go to Duncan every morning to do coffee because there's none there.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So on Jason's point, should we send questions to Richard if we have them for the group so he can prepare the.

[R10768-246] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: One of the Department of Health and Human Services, workers there was did some work in the field. She went out to several different school districts around the state and actually spent time in the schools seeing what paraprofessionals do, the way they implement services.
TEXT> You know, for kids. And she had a she sort of was nodding and affirming that, yes,  you know, they do a lot more. And we should be able to bill for things other than just that narrow band of, you know, what would be deemed personal care or hygiene issues or something. So anyway, I again, we'll see what the guidance documents say. So long story short, what does this mean for Claremont School District? Number one, we're going to continue to bill for SLP, OT and PT services per usual pre emergency rule. So we can just get back to business of billing right. And we have a six month retroactive period from the date of services delivered. So we're coming up on that six month period. If you just look at you know when the emergent like if the service was delivered today we can go back six months. So we need to we need to get on it is is the message there. And we're going to we are going to do that.   Claremont will continue to seek medical doctor and pay orders for other billable services, including rehab assistance.
NEXT> Ben Nester: That's our lion's share. That's what we're going to focus on. So here's the last two points. If Department of Health gives guidance that significantly limits billable services provided by

[R10768-253] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: We put 290. I believe in the budget. Okay. For next year. That was our best guess based on all of this information, which has been sort of trickling in. Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> So one of my questions that, that, that I wonder about if I have a student in my school  and they, they have an IEP for, emotional disturbance to say or whatever, that's probably not a code anymore, but whatever. So that student,  according to what I've seen from MSP and MSP is the they're the middleman. They they're the ones that process our claims. We submit claims to MSP and then MSP takes 8% currently. Yes, 8%. And then, then we get checks directly back from them. Yeah. So my question is I've got this student, they have a they have a because I've been in I don't know how many 504 meetings where the student has a diagnosis in their in the nurses file. It's their. So why do I need a doctor's order when I have a diagnosis. But it's from the same doctor.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If it's from the same doctor, it should be fine.

[R10768-266] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
TEXT> So I'm hoping that that's the case. But what bothers me is, is, is this having to have a professional sign off in order when we already have probably in many cases, already have a diagnosis in the students folder? Yeah.
NEXT> Jason Benware: The generation tool.

[R10768-276] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: done is reach out and we've done the same. Reach out to kiddos, doctors with parent consent, and the doctors have been willing to sign off on the workers. It creates another layer of. Miracle work on our end. But it's not. It's not insurmountable.
TEXT> So just for some context to there is a certain amount of triage that goes into this. If you've got a student who has a full time rehab assistant, that's that's a code red, that's something that would be would be worth what you're describing, either having a somebody to come in to do that. However, if they're meeting with, an occupational assistant  twice a month, what we would get back from that would be very negligible, right? In the context of of what, what that big pool of money is, we might get $1,000 back from in reimbursements from a someone meeting with a professional once a week or twice a week. It's so there is a certain amount of triage where there are certainly some like the rehab assistance, as you said, but that's really where the money.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Where we go.

[R10768-286] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Classes.
TEXT> Two quarter to allow kids to come in and try culinary if see if they like it or try, you know, carpentry or age back. And this way they can increase actual number of students that we have that touch those classes and hopefully  garner more excitement in there. And then the second reason actually is sometimes students find out that they don't like a particular topic. And if they're there and they decide they don't like  h vac, why keep them there for an entire semester? That makes them unhappy? And we can move that child out and put another child in. So you know this helps that turnover quicker. So certainly valid certainly something we'd like to pursue. And we're going to try that and see if we'd like it. We're adding a teacher preparation one and two. I'm I'm excited about this potential course. A lot of it has to do with the budget coming up in the March vote. But we'd like to be able to develop this program. I know other school districts around the country have programs that are similar to this sort of or Grow Your Own teacher program, where we  allow students to get a sense of what it's like to be a teacher, to find out if that's a career path that that interested in.
NEXT> Steve Moss: We start discussing some of the concepts about child development with them. We get into the psychology of it, and it's pretty interesting because sometimes the kids go, oh, that's

[R10768-288] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections from several voices (inc | 2020-03-04
PREV> Steve Moss: been changed. And then the really big one is changing the intro to career readiness and college and career readiness, and adding Navy and Navy. ONS is a it's a college application program, and you can speak more to that. Yeah, sure. Why don't you.
TEXT> Speak more? Step right. Yeah. I'm ready. Colonel, I'm one of the school counselors, by the way. So really quick Navy is a it started off as a college program. That's how students apply to college in our schools. They do it, you know, instead of in the old days when they would send out all the applications and mail them out. Nowadays, you can do it on the computers. It's run through Navy, and Navy is hooked up through Common App, which is how students by to college. But in order to expand their program, they've gotten more into career oriented stuff, one of them being this type of thing they now have on their program different things that what we do is take them as freshmen, have them come in a few times, talk about what they want to do for the career, build on that sophomore, junior, senior. And I think we're going to add that into this computer class and, you know, try to figure out career and college or college and career readiness that way. So if that makes sense, is that a better explanation?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm assuming that's interest inventories and such.

[R10768-290] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School school counselor (self-identified a | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm assuming that's interest inventories and such.
TEXT> Yeah, it's the same type of thing. I'm trying to think of different. And it builds like you start with the freshman has some certain thing. As you build the sophomore and junior year, it starts to look at what careers you might want to go into from there. As you start off the interest, you know, surveys and those, you've probably seen Holland and stuff like that. It builds into that. And then you start looking at the careers and then junior, it starts to build toward college. But the gap was that you have a lot of kids that don't want to go to a four year college, you know, and what do you do with them? And they need to have the same type of career readiness to try to figure out what careers are out there for them as well. And that's what Navy is trying to get into. Slowly but surely. And that's what we're trying to do as well. Makes sense.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just a footnote on Navy is the nice part about Navy. Is it the, the letter after the deadline for applications from the college saying, oh, by the way, we

[R10768-306] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yes I.
TEXT> Know it was bounced around that we were talking about at one point requiring that kids that take AP courses actually take the AP exam.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R10768-309] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any movement?
TEXT> I believe the policy now is  that a student who wants to receive the AP weight has to sit for the exam. The weighted credit. If they don't sit for the exam, then we just give them the regular 4.0 credit.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, that's a good incentive.

[R10768-336] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (cluster may also carry other male membe | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Acceptance of donations.
TEXT> Okay, I move that we accept $11,947.39  from Sue Taylor's fundraising efforts to buy Chromebooks for the CMS middle school, as well as $3,000 for  from an anonymous donor for the Bluff School fourth grade field trip to the White Mountains. I'd like to say thank you to Sue Taylor for all of her effort in this, as well as to the anonymous donor, because I know how wonderful and enriching that trip is for the fourth grade students at Bluff School.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Further discussion. And again, this is what we had the public hearing on here. All those in favor?

[R10842-131] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: funds from the Special Education Trust Fund to the fiscal year 2021 budget. And again, the same. This is not the opportunity for the public, the board members, to speak, but the public. And Mike, do you want to talk a little bit about this?
TEXT> Sure, sure. So the. Rationale for this is we  are very successful in and chime in on this as well. It's already going better than we when it's going exactly as we hope. But it's it's great news in the early stages. So  we we contracted with NEC for  for their program which includes teachers, materials,  other types of resources. That is a 190  zero. There is  a approximately 20,000 of other materials to go along with that. And,  the  other  the remainder  we're going to use to hire two  elementary.  Excuse me,  I'm backing up now and also two, two paraprofessionals as well for the NEC program.  The remainder of  moneys  we are looking to put in two  additional school social workers, one at the elementary level and one at the middle school level level. Courtney Portner is going to be  assigned to the high school.  Where she is going to. And she is going to be the lead social worker for the district. It's very excited about that. At a great conversation with her today on that. And our focus is to create stop gaps so that students and interventions earlier and to do,  the network of, of home visits of, of  all kinds of other interventions as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And to make sure that we, we have less of a need for a what is often referred to as a terminal program, meaning that it's a program where students

[R10842-132] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: very excited about that. At a great conversation with her today on that. And our focus is to create stop gaps so that students and interventions earlier and to do, the network of, of home visits of, of all kinds of other interventions as well.
TEXT> And to make sure that we, we have less of a need for a  what is often referred to as a terminal program, meaning that  it's a  program where  students have significant  disabilities or obstacles, and then they remain in the program for long periods of time. We're trying to intervene for the entire school population at each level.  With services that are that are greatly needed. And that's that's our that's our plan. So two separate  avenues. One is for the autism program that we spoke at length about.  We only want to access 325,000, which is half of the money. In addition to this, we are still going to pursue. And Donna already has a bead on a few grants. We're very excited on the phone today. And.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: For those that are on the phones and listening, wondering why their silence, we are experiencing some technical difficulties with the audio for everyone that we're trying to work out.

[R10842-142] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: hearing on the donation from the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation. And now we will transfer to the transfer of funds from the Special Ed Trust Fund to the fiscal year 21 budget. Mike, I hate to ask you, but could. You. Do that again? Felice?
TEXT> No. No worries. So,  we're proposing to move the sum of $325,000 to, the FY 21 budget  from the Educational trust that was established back in the fall. And the purpose that we we is twofold for that. The first is that we have,  we're partnered with the New England Center for children to create our autism classroom in the elementary. At the elementary level, that's intended to bring a few students back and also to service kids that would go out as we presented it. When you contract with the New England Center, they have state of the art training  facility, and they they send members of their own staff out, as well as consulting and curriculum and, and other,  other types of  investment that comes along with that. We have to provide two additional paraprofessionals, which we would,  and that  total the contract for the services with the teacher. They have their teacher in the CBA as well that come with that is 190,000.  There is also some additional money set aside $20,000 for supplies and equipment. And  and then for the power professionals so that that's part of the money.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The remainder of the money to get to the 325 is we are going to, be funding. We're going to add two more social workers to the district that will

[R10842-143] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with the teacher. They have their teacher in the CBA as well that come with that is 190,000. There is also some additional money set aside $20,000 for supplies and equipment. And and then for the power professionals so that that's part of the money.
TEXT> The remainder of the money to get to the 325 is we are going to,  be funding. We're going to add two more social workers to the district that will one will be in the elementary schools, one will be in the middle school. Who will be replacing Courtney Porter. Courtney,  has agreed to be transferred to the high school level, where she will also serve in a mentoring capacity for the other two social workers coming in. She's very excited about the outreach and the potential and servicing  students in the community. And we're we're really excited to have her in that role. We had a great discussion today about that. And, and that's that is a that's our plan. So we there is also the opportunity. And I spoke to  Donna today. She had some very creative ideas about actually trying to apply some grant funds in stages at the elementary level and also at the middle school level. That may offset some of these costs.  But we know that conservatively and to be,  you know, aggressive in the hiring market right now and placing the ads and things like that, which we have a  planning meeting scheduled for  tomorrow and Friday as well.  That we have to be pretty proactive. So that's why we we think that the amount of 325 is, is appropriate.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: If we don't use all of that, we will give a complete accounting of what we have used in, if we do have success with the grants that that Donna

[R10842-236] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: Yes, I am.
TEXT> All right. Would you like to give us the student representative report, please?
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Yep. And? So. From the center, they sent, They are canceling their summer camp this year due to the pandemic. It comes with great sadness that they announce it. They

[R10842-237] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right. Would you like to give us the student representative report, please?
TEXT> Yep. And? So. From the  center, they sent, They are canceling their summer camp this year due to the pandemic. It comes with great sadness that they announce it. They didn't take the time to upgrade, to upgrade some lab areas to make the best use of the downtime. The basic machinist class that they were holding in partnership with Sullivan County, was only two thirds completed before they had to shut down. They hoped to continue the class and finish it when,  sometime in the near future. The summer inmate program is still a go but will be held off site. More details to come once they finalize the location. Remote learning is good as well and as it can  as it can go, given what we teach to the test center is hands on. What?  They also miss their students. The Claremont Adult Education Program is still in operation. I doubt students are continuing. Their studies were mostly Kendall Duffy, who's the coordinator of the Adult Education, is doing a wonderful job working with Stevens High for students. Need another option for school? The. I would like to thank our center workers in the town.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: During this pandemic, and this was sent to me by Mr. Hayes on the high school. They said when they send me the report, I'll send it to you. But,

[R10842-238] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-05-06
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: doubt students are continuing. Their studies were mostly Kendall Duffy, who's the coordinator of the Adult Education, is doing a wonderful job working with Stevens High for students. Need another option for school? The. I would like to thank our center workers in the town.
TEXT> During this pandemic, and this was sent to me by Mr. Hayes on the high school. They said when they send me the report, I'll send it to you. But, Miss Berry did say that they have ideas around graduation and seniors. And they don't know. We put in some of those ideas out once they finalize them. The CMS principal said that there was that they missed their students and that, they are all set from there. So the the elementary school is, on the sense of  this. I've obviously came about due to meet with all of my classes,  but, I do want to touch on how remote learning is going a little bit if I'm allowed to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yep. I have no objection.

[R10842-245] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Any questions for the student representative? I'm sure I have a lot, but I don't know if I don't want to hug all the time.
TEXT> I I'm Tyler, I, I was on the ground. I am on the graduation committee,  so. And, Mike and I touch bases today. I think you'll be happy with the plans that are being worked on right now. So, it's really important that we do the best we can for all you seniors, you know? So I think you'll be happy with it. And I would like to hear,  a little more, from you about your remote. Are you helping other students? Tyler, I know you put yourself out there saying that you would help.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: So I did have people out on. However, I have not, helped anyone yet. But I did end up getting a full time job, so I have to make them

[R10842-284] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the next, next item is the we did officially join the Carnival lawsuit for school funding and equity, where they're suing, you know, for for equity and funding. And there'll be more to that to come. But that was just made official during this time.
TEXT> So I included that,  and  even offered to, to host potentially in the region. And it seems like we may have, we may be able to do that. So it's great. It's also great. And obviously I wasn't here. Many members were during the what is known as the Claremont one and the Claremont two decisions, where we were the poster child for for the state in in terms of advocating for equity with property, poor communities, getting the short end of the stick for resources. So, it's nice to know there's, in some ways,  that we have, we can band together as communities and work together to add more resources, but it's somewhat troubling to know that that not much has has been done or not nearly as much as needs to be done. So that's something that we're looking forward  to following up with. This is the, the the breakdown of the of the, the money requested. So you can see that in the spreadsheet a lot easier. I wish I could have pulled this up before. So the the contract was 190 and then 10,000 for equipment and furniture and other odds and ends. 152 paraprofessionals, 60,001 elementary social worker for 60,000.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You see the blanks there for the for for Courtney being being transferred to the high school and then also allocating the other funds that I mentioned that were paid

[R10842-314] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: be offset somewhere else for a cost that we didn't anticipate. Also, I was just curious whether or not the students that got the Chromebooks will be get to keep them. If they were a loan program or if they actually get to keep them.
TEXT> So I I'll take the easy one first, the Chromebooks. Okay, Jeff.  Or you could pop into Jeff. It's your it's your world. But we we already were moving towards a 1 to 1, as you know. So with the Chromebooks that are out the we'll have to get the ones obviously for exiting students and people who are leaving the district or seniors and things like that. We do plan on not collecting them for, obviously, a bunch of logistical reasons and other other, you know, possible places for contamination, obviously, is the is the obvious one. But we also want students to have those, particularly for students that were hard to reach. And we had to ferret out and make sure they had connectivity. And in computers we want to make sure that they can and we're going to teachers are going to also push out some resources. We don't want to take away a point of access for them to continue, you know, on the on the amazing other curriculum that we have out there, things like Khan Academy and all these other wonderful sites that people are flourishing on. So, we're we're not going to take that away. And in fact, when we roll out, when the when the new, bunch of them comes out to be to wheeled out, we'll, we're going to wait till everything dies down health wise.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: To make sure that we do that. And Jeff, Jeff can talk about that as well if he wants.

[R10842-334] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member; elected Vice Chair at this meeting [96] | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Go ahead. Heather.
TEXT> I had someone in the community, questioned me about what we were going to do for summer school. I guess in the past, struggling students have participated in summer school. And there was a suggestion that perhaps summer school could actually be pushed further into the summer and actually kind of be a transition into what we hope will be brick and mortar attendance. So I didn't know if there was a plan in place.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Now that. We're, we're we definitely have in those discussions and also, the principles of being very proactive with that. And they've already requested more resources and that, that they

[R10842-335] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: And there was a suggestion that perhaps summer school could actually be pushed further into the summer and actually kind of be a transition into what we hope will be brick and mortar attendance. So I didn't know if there was a plan in place.
TEXT> Now that. We're, we're we definitely have in those discussions and also, the principles of being very proactive with that. And they've already requested more resources and that, that they anticipate there they're going to need, particularly at the high school level with  failure, some failures and access and things like that. And I guess overall, what we're trying to do is that everyone's trying to do is come up with a solution. It would be great if there's a hybrid of people actually meeting, but I,  I honestly think that's going to be very unlikely. But, but, just from everything that I'm seeing, you know, across the country and, and, it's tough to get a clear picture because we don't know, we, we just don't know the rate of, of, that transmission is dropping off, you know, if that will correspond with, with how much time we have and things like that, we can kick up,  online assignments and then keeping the Chromebooks with students and things like that. And I do think if we pull off anything, it will be more, more, virtual than, than anything because the, the last thing and I know that many board members feel this way as well. And in other citizens, the last thing we want to do is come back even before school, right? For for the purposes of remediation or bolstering and things like that, and actually spreading transmission.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we want to make sure that we, we do it. Right.

[R10842-348] Unidentified | Unidentified - male SAU 6 administrator speaking on special education  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other questions for Superintendent Tempesta.
TEXT> Frank, I just wanted to add quickly that, extended school year for special education students. We are planning to do that remotely at this point. And we've got a we've got a model we've developed. Just to to Heather's question for on summer school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay.

[R10842-359] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: her explanation on this. She she has made the document every day backwards and forwards at every level, and then vetted it right at the Department of Ed. So can't say enough about her diligence in this in all matters. So I really appreciate it.
TEXT> Thanks, Mike. Thanks. So what what we had to do is we had to take a look at our calendar. And we use the high school because the high school is what needed the most time for students to be in school. So we wanted to make sure that we were across the board going to meet the the amount of time that kids needed to be in school. So what we had to do, we had to look at  our school calendar that was currently running and go day by day and go block by block on how many hours kids are actually in school with academic time. So passing in the halls, lunch, none of that stuff would be included. It's just their actual academic time.  And then we had to we had to take out any snow days because we do not do Blizzard bag. So we had to take out snow days, early release days that that time we had to take out professional development days and come up with what would be our end of the year based on the numbers that we had in play. And so we are with the high school level. So we had to break it down that the high school has 5.92 hours of instructional time a day.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And if I times that by 165.5 school days, that gives me 991.60 hours of construction time. And according to the state, we need 990. So the but what I

[R10842-369] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: we didn't want to our kids to end school any earlier than the 990 hours. But I don't know if Mike has heard anything about money, but I have not heard anything about, us having to pay for a waiver or anything such as that.
TEXT> Yeah, I  think and I, I don't, I don't know specifically and haven't heard about, I think that I haven't heard the same information that you've heard, Rebecca. But I in terms of contractual agreements that we already have and for us to save any substantial monies, you know, we have to employ teachers and all these other groups. So we have binding contracts of the minimum that they, you know, so that I don't I don't see how we would, how there could be a lot of savings. And we have to keep in mind, too, that, although remote learning is not perfect and it was forced on us and  it's it's not how we would have rolled it out, obviously, but, there are some, you know, there are some benefits for it, obviously the safety, but students are still getting out earlier than they would have anyway. So, I don't know.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'm just gonna give a, give a different perspective on that. And I'm and I'm okay if I'm, I'm on my own on this one. But speaking as a parent

[R10842-370] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member; Vice Chair until the election at this m | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: on us and it's it's not how we would have rolled it out, obviously, but, there are some, you know, there are some benefits for it, obviously the safety, but students are still getting out earlier than they would have anyway. So, I don't know.
TEXT> I'm just gonna give a, give a different perspective on that. And I'm and I'm okay if  I'm, I'm on my own on this one. But speaking as a parent of, three kids in school right now, I have seen and I feel personally and deeply challenges that are presented to parents who are still working and who have, kids in all different levels attending school. And I just, you know, every time my high school gets on, I'm wondering, are we you know, like I shared earlier, it takes nine minutes for us to download a six minute YouTube video from one of his teachers, you know, to his class. And I just think about all these students who don't have computers, whose learning time is extended by hours a day because of their technology, who have, you know, parents who are working and cannot help their students. I just really concerned for the well-being of families and contractual obligations. I just think it's really important to recognize how challenging this has been for many, many families, mine included. And I have a good support system. So, you know, I just don't want that to get lost. When we talk about actual hours and and needing to get in a certain amount of hours, because I would definitely be fine with ending school tomorrow.
NEXT> Unidentified: Here, here.

[R10842-375] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Carol. Carolyn, did you want to say something?
TEXT> I just wanted to.  It doesn't have to do with Rebecca's comments, but I just want to say at this time  that, my daughter lives in Delaware, and that's where Blue Hens are of the University of Delaware family, very tech savvy. We were a month ahead of them for remote learning, a month ahead of them. So I just I mean, this is a big shout out to whatever it took to get that done. And I,  I could not imagine having three children having different class levels to learn and trying to keep your sanity. I know it's a big challenge,  but I just want us to be very proud of how this whole thing rolled out in the beginning. So that's all I wanted to say, Jason.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So I'd like to give the other side of. This. I suppose. I certainly understand the challenges for some people doing this type of learning, and not everybody adapts to

[R10842-384] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: To.
TEXT> Hear some data. I think all of us have our own individual bubbles that we relate to. I know that I'm personally having a very hard time with two young children, whereas other people with honors students or not. So I think we could all go back and forth about our personal situation. I'd like to see some data to support both sides before we make a determination, but I think  currently another month of this personally is is a personal health scape.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Do I have the option to opt out their children up, their children out of learning and that negatively affect them?

[R10842-385] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member; Vice Chair until the election at this m | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: not. So I think we could all go back and forth about our personal situation. I'd like to see some data to support both sides before we make a determination, but I think currently another month of this personally is is a personal health scape.
TEXT> Do I have the option to opt out their children up, their children out of learning and that negatively affect them?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: No, they they don't have that option. And one of the things rob to to in order to pull the all the data and data together for you, we wouldn't

[R10842-388] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: I understand, no worries.
TEXT> And from my understanding, you know, like when I've been talking to teachers that we do have some kids that, yes, are struggling. But I'm also hearing a lot of positive things, you know, that kids that when they left school could only recognize nine letters, and now they're recognizing all letters of the alphabet and being able to spell small words. You know, so I'm hearing a lot of positive things as well. I'm hearing negative things as well. You know, we do have some students that are not participating, but we have things to put in place with this. With that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to be clear, I think there's positive and negative for everything. I just I'm astounded by the fact how different it is for each family like that.

[R10842-392] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: any other school day, or is this a special circumstance? When we're going to advance children that aren't demonstrating, or how are we going to be able to ensure that the learners that are struggling now will be able to perform the next school year?
TEXT> So part of the part of the requirement, Heather, is that as a curriculum team and as a district, we need to look at what our beginning of the school year is going to look like because of the fact that we're going to have some kids that yes, we're not able to do as well. So how do we we close that gap. And so we're currently looking at ways to be able to do that. So beginning of the year  for our upcoming year is going to look a lot different than what our beginning of the year is look like in the past. The second piece to that is our elementary and middle school levels. No, they will not be held back. They they will they will pass on to the next grade and it will be up to us as a as district and as teachers to come together  and, you know, to educate those students, to bring them closer to together, as we have been all along, except now our gap, maybe a little bit bigger. And so now we need to come up with ways to put items into place to help.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Help. Close that gap as far as the high school level goes, their their credit based so their credits would be affected by that. And we have things in place.

[R10842-431] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead.
TEXT> I just wanted to say that this this policy, the reason why this policy was written, because Senate Bill 282 has said that we need to adopt this policy, adopt this policy by July 1st, and it gave that it needs to require, which is the training of school faculty and staff, educating education students, for suicide prevention as well as, point of contact people in our schools as well as at our district level. If a person or student is at risk for suicide, you know the process on making referrals, and, and staff training, which our staff has to be trained by April 1st of next school year. And we currently have, a committee in place that is working on the in-house training that we be doing of all faculty and staff, including coaches. Some of our coaches will also be need to need to be trained in this, with due to the Senate bill.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So this this is language that's come directly from the state.

[R10842-509] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Old about.
TEXT> Well, this one, what I'd really like to focus on is what we're currently doing. Because there have been a lot of questions about what is the impact on our budget, what's the impact on the overall financials from what we're currently doing, and to do a quick summary, what we currently have in place is we are providing breakfast and lunch for students that come up to busses, which we have located at each one of our buildings. And as Mike had said, we also have delivery of lunch and breakfast  to some of our most at risk families,  as well as to some of those that are on the outer boundaries of the city where they can't they can't get to one of our buildings easily. We're doing about 500, a little bit more, both breakfast and lunch today, so close to 1000 meals per day. We are also starting on the 13th of April. I believe it was the 13th. We started to offer the same on weekends, so that someone coming to pick up a meal could pick up a meal, breakfast and lunch for Friday. Also for Saturday and for Sunday. Wow, I just got the financials that came in from, Abby Group today for the month of April, so it includes half of the weekend, half of the weekend meals.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: But what we're showing right now and again, all meals are reimbursed. They're considered free. We do not have to do a, a check at the time that the meals

[R10842-510] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: pick up a meal, breakfast and lunch for Friday. Also for Saturday and for Sunday. Wow, I just got the financials that came in from, Abby Group today for the month of April, so it includes half of the weekend, half of the weekend meals.
TEXT> But what we're showing right now and again, all  meals are reimbursed. They're considered free. We do not have to do a, a check at the time that the meals are being picked up, that this is a free and reduced child, or even that it is a child that would normally be getting a lunch from one of our schools. So if we can provide the lunch, we count the lunch. And the waiver that's been accepted by the state is that we can submit that for reimbursement. So what we're looking at for the month of April was that our reimbursements were actually $8,037 greater than what the cost was for preparing those lunches. And the costs in preparing the lunches include  the cost from Abby Group for all of their all of their labor, the food costs, and then the  contractual costs for insurance, etc. that we are that we have every month with the Abbey Group contract. The expectation for May is that that $8,000 positive will be a larger number than that, because there's no real additional fixed cost for them to be providing a full month worth of the of the weekend lunches. And we're looking to continue to we have approval to continue to do it this way through the end of June.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I got a question.

[R10842-529] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-05-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: Ranges and I believe we have some who probably are on the call who who.
TEXT> Had kids that they're actually. Pardon me pretty  lunches for the most part. It's all a mixture of things that can either be heated up easily in the microwave or bagged lunch, but I mean fresh fruit. Two different milks are usually some kind of. The main is either like a turkey and ham on a big role. There's pancakes for the they give you food for the weekend. It's a pretty phenomenal deal that what they're doing.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: And they also put it on Facebook for the the meal plan.

[R10842-569] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: Right. Well, normally they'd be sitting at my table in the office here and going from place to place and being able to do an awful lot of work in one day. They're all working from home.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. Any for any other questions for Richard Ron audits. Okay. Moving on to the parent student handbook approval.  Excuse me. Mike, did you want to speak to that or. Donna.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I can. Want me to speak to that Mike.

[R10842-620] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member; elected Vice Chair at this meeting [96] | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: moving to the second. The acceptance of transfer funds from the special education trust fund to the fiscal 21 budget. Mike talked about that a little, but we could ask additional questions now if we were inclined. So I'm looking for a motion for that.
TEXT> I just have sorry, guys, to just have one question. With the program that's being proposed in the letter from the, New England Center for children, they said the paraprofessional had to have a bachelor's degree. I just didn't know if that was going to be an issue with where the  the para that we have to hire is required to have a bachelor's degree. And I'm not sure if our pay scale would support that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. I'll answer that one. Heather, I thank you for your question earlier. No, they don't have to have a bachelor's.

[R10842-663] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yeah, that's in June. That's up in June at the end of June.
TEXT> Yeah. So that should be that's the highest priority. It would be interesting to find out about some of the implications of what Richard's been talking about with, with lunch at the high school, if we, look at some different models there of the presentation of. But, you know, kind of its I can't it still bothers me having been part of that renovation process that, that it's, you know, kids aren't interested in eating in there, but I think that, certainly that's something that we really have to talk about in the next meeting.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I just I want to add in. Yeah. For that, there will be a summation for the senior graduation, I'm sure, for that meeting. Probably go out much before, you

[R10842-677] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Do.
TEXT> We  typically seniors get out a few weeks before other students do we have a date for that?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: That would be something that Pat would be discussing.

[R10876-62] Tyler | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yep. We'll see what happens in the Mr..
TEXT> Yeah. Well, yeah. After his report.  Yeah. And then I did want to and my will pull up, being that this is my last meeting,  as a student representative,  because I'm unfortunately graduating, that is kind of sad. So I can get down to. I have a lot. So  I just wanted to say a smile. Thank you to the school board for all the work that you have done for Mr.  and Mrs.. For the way that you guys have done and for the high school administration for planning a graduation as well as the graduation committee, although there's some buds within it.  Personally, I believe it,  has some kids to it. It's the best that we can do to given the times. And I never thought that on Friday, March 13th, which is the 13th, that would be my last day stepping in to Stevens High School with other Pos of mine. Everybody was expecting to attend the following week and nobody did.  Within 24 hours, schools were canceled, gathering into a ban, churches were closed, gyms were closed, and everything that was not essential was closed down. After a week of being in the doubt, New Hampshire schools, including Stevens, came up with huge remote learning plans. That  was a trial and error for a lot.
NEXT> Tyler: I couldn't go running off of that low WiFi. And when Governor Chris sent his son into a cancer school for the rest of the academic year, leaving school activities

[R10876-67] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, takes his own ro | 2020-06-03
PREV> Tyler: I do have to say that I did reapply back into the school district for a paraprofessional position for a few of them, so I might end up staying in the district.
TEXT> Well, that's one way to go back and see your teachers. But I know. For a. Fact that teachers are to see kids, especially not during school hours, but after school is over in the afternoon. Teachers love seeing their former students, I know that. And I want to thank you to Tyler. Tyler.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And I wanted to chime in too. I wanted to let you know I, I can't believe, like if you had told me ten years ago that you were going

[R10876-99] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Tyler: idea that we can look into before Thursday. So that way the graduates from at least get a good picture. And I mean, yes, we're going to have a photographer there, but we're not going to get a good picture if we're in the vehicle.
TEXT> Tyler, I received something from the principal, Miss Berry, and she said that someone will be taking official graduation pictures for students. So I'm I'm guessing they're going to be getting out of their car for pictures. I'm not sure how that's going to work, but we can find out and get back to you on that. Well.
NEXT> Tyler: I think yeah, I think the issue is that a lot of it's unknown. And I'm not I'm not trying to just try to any of the committee or anybody.

[R10876-105] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to it. And, you know, I applaud the committee for for all of their efforts to pull off a live graduation, a live ceremony, one of that I know of, maybe 6 or 7 at this scale, in in grandeur to say, in the state.
TEXT> And I know that a couple of them  have have mimicked  ours already,  in there looking at other speedways, I believe Loudon is being used in similar fashion right now. Yeah, and a few others. So, and we were way out in front with this, and I and I think, and I know that it's tough and I get that I have my, my daughter, youngest daughter is a graduating senior as well. And there's a lot of loss in that. Parents feel in that students feel this year. And it's not just your main to graduation,  but but  all of this time, you know, and I do think that they are doing the best that they can. And if they have those concerns and if there's a way to have more photographers,  we're putting a lot of expense into getting discs made in other types of things made that we're going to tell the class more about. That takes a while.  And it's not quite confirmed.  And you'll be getting that information shortly. I may have blown some surprises. Okay. Right now. Okay, but. But you're getting there. They're working around the clock to pull this off.
NEXT> Tyler: And, and and I personally know that though I can run the thought. I've been in contact with Miss Berry a lot about it, so I. But I'm just trying

[R10876-114] Matt Upton | District attorney, Drummond Woodsum | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: it's a safety issue, and the other is, we can provide a much better photo with a professional doing a stage photo. So, I'm not sure why we're back on that topic, but it's one that we put to bed a number of years ago.
TEXT> Frank. That's exactly why why Franklin has chose the model they did. Because they were concerned that they couldn't control people getting out of their cars, congregating and, trying to angle to take pictures as the as the student picked up the diploma. So that's why this, this model was really developed again, to ensure safety.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Any so any other questions for Matt before we transition to the superintendent's report. Thank you. Matt. Since Tyler. Okay. Thank you Mike. You ready?

[R10876-119] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: there'll be some type of vaccine and things like that before we resume in full scale. And as everyone knows, just following in the press to us, there's a lot of talk of anticipating a comeback of, of of Covid and no one really knows.
TEXT> So we are that that's the bad news. That's the bad news for everyone across the country. We're not alone. We realize that. But we also have some good news that's working well for us. And that is,  if if the money follows the title one allocations and other allocations, as it should, we should have a chunk of money that we can use to pay for things that we're going to need. A couple of the things that we already know that we're going to need  is some technology and  other types of things that we've done for outreach  for for those who don't have connectivity at home, we are going to a 1 to 1 platform so everyone will have their own,  Chromebooks next year. As as we had begun planning at the beginning of the year. That has moved full steam forward ahead. We're also looking for in the principals have have come forward earnestly on this talking about that. We have many schools in portions of buildings where all we have is longer desks in congregation areas where students would be together. So we're looking at in those cases and across the board, how we could get furniture that's more,  more modern and can be used in more configurations and can separate students minimally six feet a cross positively.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have very large elementary classrooms and fairly typical middle and high school rooms. So that we're hoping we could do that. And that's what we're looking at. I've, I've

[R10876-123] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we have any sense of what that title one money will actually allow us to purchase? I mean, there's got to be a parameter to it and how limited that parameters. And can we actually improve the infrastructure items?
TEXT> It's not it's not it's not title one money per se, but it's following the title one allocation. So particularly with that risk, students in poverty, that's the ratio type of of how it was decided by the state. And pretty much it's to offset expenses and that are impacting our typical teaching and learning due to Covid. That's and Richard, you're you're more in tune to the exact definitions. But those are the general  parameters. So for example, if we need more outreach to, to get you know, technology into homes, hotspots, dead zones,  all types of things like that, Chromebooks themselves,  furniture things,  furniture items, what we're seeing every single day  are these cottage industries looking to sell things already, you know, all orders of  masks, of mass with logos of  of of temperature, infrared  temperature kiosks, so that when everyone passes by, you can see if someone has a temperature. Some of those items are very costly, and I,  I'm hoping I'm praying that they will be relics and that we won't need them. You know, past the opening of the year. I don't know that that would be a way, a way of life to to ramp up to big ticket items like those.  But we're waiting to see.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're looking at things that that will best prepare us for anything, but also may have some utility after this, certainly like desks and things like that. That's our

[R10876-126] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Rebecca.
TEXT> Sorry, there is this wondering, does that  money  up to related service providers such. Because I know that in my district, we've been talking a lot about  how to put together supplies to send home for students who might actually,  supplies it, they'll need to be able to complete telehealth activities with their service provider for. So does that money include related service providers and the things that they may need?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I believe it does. That's my interpretation of it. Again, I'm not in the deep dive of it. And I also know that there's some allocations, special ed allocations, as

[R10876-132] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Go ahead. Heather.
TEXT> Would we be able to use it for staffing purposes if we needed additional staff to support students within within this new environment?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: My my understanding is that we could so, particularly for outreach and, you know, the social, social work aspect, another aspect that I, that I, that we're excited about, that

[R10876-133] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would we be able to use it for staffing purposes if we needed additional staff to support students within within this new environment?
TEXT> My my understanding is that we could so,  particularly for outreach and, you know, the social, social work aspect,  another aspect that I, that I, that we're excited about, that we're planning to a degree, but not not as robustly. Obviously we didn't see the pandemic coming, but is that we we're going to have workshops, some workshops for educators rolling out, going to the 1 to 1. And we're hoping dependent upon, you know, obviously much of this would be remote. We don't know it would change. We don't know which iteration will land in terms of groups of trying to help parents as well,  set up online courses for on workshops and things like that, and pay our staff to do that and other experts to do that, to help parents ramp up if it is a hybrid opening or a staggered opening. And I also don't know that I completely clarified for those at home, is that there's there's some talk of of, just by reducing the number of students in the, in the schools, in the classrooms, say, if you have a class of 20 and then you staggered every other day and you had 10 in 1 day in another set of ten, and the other day in opposite those days, they were doing remote work.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Those are some of the things that have been proposed. There's, you know, good and bad to both of those things, you know, in many other models. And that's what

[R10876-144] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So that's that's what we're talking about. I certainly couldn't be in this. This is I don't mean this to and you alluded to this in your report, Tyler. I mean, we got walloped one day. We were there, the next day we were not.
TEXT> We had we had a we had a few weeks to think about it and to get something ready. And then we were doing it on the fly. At least we would have the summer to ramp up and to help families and to help students and things like that. We're going to have newer equipment that will be in we have money for infrastructure. We, we, you know, the that's we're definitely we're building the plane as we're flying it as, as as they say. But we're but we have a lot more tools.
NEXT> Tyler: And I know personally that, for one of my, for my ELO, I did it at the preschool and I had to teach preschoolers online via doodle me a lesson.

[R10876-145] Tyler | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We're going to have newer equipment that will be in we have money for infrastructure. We, we, you know, the that's we're definitely we're building the plane as we're flying it as, as as they say. But we're but we have a lot more tools.
TEXT> And I know personally that, for one of my, for my ELO, I did it at the preschool and I had to teach preschoolers online via doodle me  a lesson. And a lot of the didn't show up. And that's tough to teach the preschool level, especially as well as kindergarten.  We are remote learning platform, so I wanted to just bring that up. So it was on the minds of people when they look into next year.  What what whether or not I'm working back in the studio or  whatever I'm doing, I just want to make sure that people understand that the preschoolers of stuff going from this, as well as the other student, but especially preschool and kindergarten, who don't understand what's going on, and you can't really describe to them what's going on.
NEXT> Unidentified: No, I.

[R10876-167] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and also like to thank, Representative Merchant for his for his reach out and push with this. It truly is it's a public health issue and we're trying to do all that we can. So, that was another item. We had a special ed update.
TEXT> With the neck partnership classroom is moving on. Really? Well, they have hired a teacher. We have the BCB, a we have the student identified Dale qanat. The program is going to be located at bluff.  Has been part of all the planning. Sherri McDaniel, Thomas and Ben and the folks from New England Center. And obviously Dave. Dave Cochran, who is,  as many may not know, is is really the unsung hero of of all of these opportunities for students. He knows so much at his fingertips about every placement in New Hampshire, Vermont. And we're doing a lot of work based on his experience, too, because we feel that we can build parallel programs in right here in Claremont, and we're working on it. So,  Ben can also, if you're still on Ben, you can if you can talk about I mentioned the social work that we're hiring. You can talk about the extended y opportunities for special ed.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, sure. So, yeah, like, like Mike said, very excited about the partner classroom. It's going to be great. We've got, I got my internet cut out just as you

[R10876-169] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (ASR 'Mr. Nestor') | 2020-06-03
PREV> Ben Nester: needs, some behavioral needs as we move into the fall. You know, given the remote instruction period and the whole pandemic. So anyway, we're just we're going to be deliberate and systematic in the way we, meet mental health needs in the district, moving forward.
TEXT> And then lastly, we are offering an expanded, extended school year for our special education students. We're essentially offering extended school year for any special education student that is interested.  It's going to be done remotely. And, because of the staffing structures, due to the remote aspect of it, to be able to come in within our, within our current extended school year budget. So it's not going to be an additional cost as what I'm anticipating right now. And if there are any additional costs, because of the expansion of this extended school year will offset those with the the special Ed grant. So again, no impact on the budget. So very exciting. Good stuff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Great. Thanks, man.

[R10876-196] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: instead of your own. Once I was back from home, model, even for the regular school year. I also wanted to point out that the reason there's a surplus is because the payment is different than a normal school year. Is that that that is.
TEXT> Yes. That is that is correct. So basically, every meal, every meal, our meals cost a certain amount to make. They do whether they're we're in this shutdown or whether they're not.  So the question just comes down to, are we selling enough meals per day or providing enough meals per day to cover the overhead that goes along with the contract? When we are not in a situation like we are right now, we're close. I mean, we weren't we weren't running a deficit. We weren't seeing the same amount of of surplus that we're seeing right now. But we were close to the break even. And again, with the contract with Abby Group, it is a break even contract. We can't. Oh, them money by virtue of offering the food the food programs. What we have here is that we're feeding any child that comes up to our bus. So this happens to be a child that goes to school at Fall Mountain or goes to school elsewhere. They can still come to the bus, pick up a meal, and that's considered a reimbursable meal.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: This won't continue on beyond some period of time, whether it be the end of August or, you know, whatever is determined. So what we need to be looking at

[R10876-197] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: feeding any child that comes up to our bus. So this happens to be a child that goes to school at Fall Mountain or goes to school elsewhere. They can still come to the bus, pick up a meal, and that's considered a reimbursable meal.
TEXT> This won't continue on beyond some period of time, whether it be the end of August or, you know, whatever is determined. So what we need to be looking at is the quality of the contract that we have with Abby Group to ensure that this is a no cost back to Claremont and to ensure that we're fully utilizing at the students are are fully utilizing the meals so that either through their payment or through reimbursement, we're maximizing the number of meals that we provide and the number of meals that were that, that are, that are being paid for. But this program, as it's structured, Mike, is is a one time structure. It's going to go away, you know, by August 31st or thereafter.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah. I just want to be clear, because, you know, we often talk about the school debt and people are saying that there's no you know, we're not getting that

[R10876-211] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Mike on teacher nominations and su | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: B, C or grade or numerical grade versus the competencies, you know, passes with distinction and things like that. What we don't have yet is and again, it's, it's for lack of time with all the other things going on with, with Covid is exactly.
TEXT> It's they're going to use the competencies. Okay. But not in the formulation of, of the grades per se, but in a more traditional format. We're not abandoning all the hard work that went into the competencies. We can't. It's a mandate as well, but in students are going to be held to that. But in short, the grades are going to be easier to follow in a traditional manner in are less confusing. For both students, parents and for all the other ways that they're used with college admissions and other types of things, they're going to be more straightforward. So, I know a lot of work was done. 5 or 6 years ago in earnest to to kind of go all in on the competencies in the grades together. But we're we're close to being able to separate that. And we hope to have more in a presentation  in the summer, about exactly how we're going to do that. It's going to be the subject of our work with, when we meet over the summer with the mid team in our strategic planning. So, but that that is something I feel confident that we can, we can talk about. Now, most of the other things are still in flux.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So and having been there, my only concern there is that if we make a decision late in the summer, will the power school people have a chance to go

[R10876-215] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, that's going to change. Every single class has to be changed. Yeah. Update on graduation. We did, update on health policies, head lice, one of our favorite policies.
TEXT> Yeah. So I had the opportunity to speak with the school nurses. And Jeanine sent me a really wonderful outline of some of the thoughts that they had on the policy that was that was written. So one of the things they they were some of the things they were saying was they don't have enough time to check every single child, every single month. There's just not enough time in their day to be able to do all that. And then they're saying that chronic cases are not decreasing, and they feel that's because we don't we don't have a policy, a no nit policy. So they think we need to put something in place. We have a no knit policy. And so the non chronic cases they said are very easily treatable and willing to do so by parents. So they're not having any issues with that. They said the notification letter license found in the classroom is very much appreciated by parents. And they said they'd like to end monthly checks, focus on the chronic and change the policy a little bit more to be effective and more towards the chronic cases. They'd like to look at doing the checks twice a year.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And as you know, when they come up as needed at the beginning of the year, after Christmas break, after vacations, things such as that for all the elementary head

[R10876-230] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: be able to tell anyway if you don't have your baseline? The other thing, as a parent, I'm super, super appreciative of of the notices that go home. Just saying, hey, heads up. You know, there's a there's a case of headlines in the class.
TEXT> Yeah. Well, because one of the things that it's hard for them to track it because the fact that they can't check every student. So it's hard for them to do a baseline if they're not able to, to check every single day so they don't have enough time to do that in a month. And just when they get done, I make.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Feedback on that. Before to in the middle school and high school, nurses offered to come down and help the elementary nurses on, head check days. So I think there's

[R10876-261] Tyler | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Because it's not going to be in the car gym, I don't think.
TEXT> No, she said that  it's already been recorded and stuff. It's going to be a recording. But the student, from my understanding, the students who are installer ships and awards. No matter what, they're the electronic invites. Do I believe that they'll be able to be in a meeting like this with the principal, doing the thing? But yeah, there's more information that I'm sure will come out between tomorrow's drive through and the graduation ceremony, but I just wanted to put that out to the public that there was a classmate playing  for.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Information on that, too. I'd love to know the names of students who are getting awards and being recognized.

[R10876-262] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Tyler: like this with the principal, doing the thing? But yeah, there's more information that I'm sure will come out between tomorrow's drive through and the graduation ceremony, but I just wanted to put that out to the public that there was a classmate playing for.
TEXT> Information on that, too. I'd love to know the names of students who are getting awards and being recognized.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah, because that's because that's a big deal. Classmate.

[R10876-275] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's a big.
TEXT> Can I ask that two things we put on the agenda for next meeting or considered. We just want to last meeting. I brought up that we should kind of have a sense of how much of a savings we're going to have or a surplus in the budget because of our fixed costs are are going to be reduced because the students have been in the schools. So if we could just get a sense of what that might be and what we might need to do with the money, and also how many high school students are at risk of not moving forward or are having issues with failing classes related to the changes of remote learning. And if we have a plan to help those students?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Did you say seniors or students?

[R10876-276] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda from [329]; cluster also | 2020-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: might need to do with the money, and also how many high school students are at risk of not moving forward or are having issues with failing classes related to the changes of remote learning. And if we have a plan to help those students?
TEXT> Did you say seniors or students?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: High school students, because I know they were they were the group that were really going.

[R10876-277] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Did you say seniors or students?
TEXT> High school students, because I know they were they were the group that were really going.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: To be kind of their.

[R10876-279] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: To be kind of their.
TEXT> Students, because I know that was that was a group that was at kind of had their feet held to the fire a little bit more as far as having to really meet their goals and, and actually pass their classes and work. And if they're not doing it, you know, how many students are at risk of not being advanced or having issues with graduating on time?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Donna, are you getting all these? Great. Thank you Alex. Count on you.

[R10876-296] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: So yeah.
TEXT> So on the budget, I'm on the budget on the agenda. I have surplus on budget high school students failing classes due to remote learning and plans to assist them. I'll keep on teacher nominations just in case we have any. And capital improvement plan.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And development of 2021 goals.

[R10876-306] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Yeah.
TEXT> Is it is it possible to get the information in regard to the high school students and their progress, or lack thereof, sooner than August? I'm just wondering, like, you know, when parents here information or whatever, and they might have questions for school board members. I just want to make sure that I'm answering correctly or refer them to you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can we get that by July 1st?

[R10876-313] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we'll give them. And it's easy to generate a report off power school. How many how many failures there were and who failed and what they failed.
TEXT> I think that I think that the high school students failing classes due to remote learning is going to be the easy piece. The harder piece to give you right away is going to be the plan to assist them, because we don't even know what our plan is when we return to school yet.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Yeah.

[R10876-329] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda from [329]; cluster also | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: most of those kids will have been given extensions and leniency by our teachers who were absolutely wonderful at that. And and it'll be wrapped up. So we should have a we could have that to you a week, maybe ten days before we meet.
TEXT> So that's what I was thinking because there are kids are going to receive interventions. If we get the the initial list, that's going to look a lot different than the final list, because they're going to be doing things over the summer to, to remediate them.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Yeah.

[R10876-334] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Mike on teacher nominations and su | 2020-06-03
PREV> Tyler: And then I don't know if this is, if I'm able to even know there's information, but I'm just curious about if anybody knows. Since the seniors ended on Friday, how how that went for the failure rate compared to when we were in school.
TEXT> No, it. Just just like I mentioned, the the grades, the final grades and things like that, there's a lot of extenuating circumstances with, with students. So even those final grades, everything's is parallel to typical years. But there's, there's some situations where they're just trying to give a little bit more time. So we don't have a complete handle on that right now.
NEXT> Tyler: I just wasn't sure because, I mean, as far as I know, all of my friends are graduating, but I just I don't know of anybody who's not in my

[R10942-31] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Definition of contacts? Well, we'll get right to the right to the Suns. Good. Yeah. There. Right there.
TEXT> So what every Friday doctor, Doctor Chan and a few other of the doctors meet with nurses and anyone that wants to join on. So I join on to that every week. And so what they do is they he gives out a list of guidelines and things that you should follow in your school buildings. And so what  what he's saying is that and we have a form that we would send to parents to fill out. So when you look at the the temperature, so what he's saying is if a child comes in and they have a temperature of 100 degrees, basically we'll say 100 degrees because that's what we're using. Excluding test means that they get excluded from schools and they have to be tested. Now, they can't just go to their regular doctor and have a doctor's note to come back. They actually have to have the Covid test done and the negative test result come back, and that needs to be presented to the nurse before a child can come back to school. If a parent refuses that, then it's an automatic ten days of not coming to school. So that's what he's saying. So anytime you see excluding test, that's what that means.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So what he's saying is if if somebody is, you know, you're feeling chilly, you're having any body aches. These are all the things that he's telling us. Excluding tests,

[R10942-37] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I would say ask as we go. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> I think these are probably good guidelines to go by. However, it seems to me it would discourage self-reporting. I got a kid who's got hay fever. The odds of me encouraging that kid to then tell you that they're not feeling well. Yeah, so that they can possibly get ten days off or have to go spend money to get a test done. That may not be necessary. Yeah, I see that being an issue.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the, the, the the burden is definitely so the at the, at the door or at the bus stop, we have to look we have to make an assessment

[R10942-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: encouraging that kid to then tell you that they're not feeling well. Yeah, so that they can possibly get ten days off or have to go spend money to get a test done. That may not be necessary. Yeah, I see that being an issue.
TEXT> So the, the, the the burden is definitely so the at the, at the door or at the bus stop, we have to look we have to make an assessment based on the temperature and the symptoms, the temperature although it's more definitive. Right. And we'll have the gauges and it's more scientific. Its immediate return. It's one of the lesser indicators than the actual symptoms and how a kid feels. We're not we are not  and in talking to the nurses and we're going to keep talking to the nurses and with other nurses in the area, and we're going to go with state guidance and regional guidance. We want to be certain, okay, that if a kid has a few symptoms, we pull that that kid aside. We look there. And if there's a parent, particularly if it's a if it's a K to five student, we want the parent to be there, okay. Both at the bus stop and at the school when you check in at the loop so that if the student has positive and has to go, the student can go. Middle school students and above  and are talking to other superintendents how they're managing this and setting this guidance.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We feel that they can walk. Most of them are walkers. Anyway, to the middle school in we can call certainly and put them in a holding area which we

[R10942-49] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes. Rebecca.
TEXT> I was just going to make a quick comment. Nothing more than that. But I think that this is all fantastic. But the reality is we're putting a lot of faith in parents to do the right things when sending their children to school. Absolutely. So hopefully parents step up to that.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Yes. So I just want to note that the last slide did say on the last line, which is important for people who do have kids that have allergies and

[R10942-50] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: quick comment. Nothing more than that. But I think that this is all fantastic. But the reality is we're putting a lot of faith in parents to do the right things when sending their children to school. Absolutely. So hopefully parents step up to that.
TEXT> Yes. So I just want to note that the last slide did say on the last line, which is important for people who do have kids that have allergies and issues recurrently or  seasonally, that if the symptoms are the same and that if they're treatable with antihistamines, then that's a consideration that's taken in place, which I think is a concern to a lot of people whose kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And most most of the students that we know with allergies or inhalers or all that we have registered anyway. And I can't stress this enough. None of all parents,

[R10942-55] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: to be quarantined. But one of the things that that they said is if we have a child that has a case, we automatically have to call the DDHS, and they will work with us to determine who should be quarantined and who shouldn't be.
TEXT> So it's not solely on the school to make that determination. As soon as we have a positive case, we call them and they help us make that judgment call. They will come out, they will talk with, talk us through and see where was this kid sitting, who sits next to them and so forth?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Who's Robin? Jason? There's just a.

[R10942-59] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Popped into the chat.
TEXT> Will students who are excluded and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Tested still be doing their courses online for their 10 to 14 days while they're out?

[R10942-104] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I can't. Yeah.
TEXT> So this this next slide. It's easy to see the the purpose of this slide. And this one was a really tough one to explain what we're looking at without video. But this this slide basically just shows when we talked about the allergies and the other symptoms, we went from last year's data. And the reason we did this was not to completely apples to apples compare it, but just to show the position that we're in and that we're going to be sensitive to the cases as they come in. Because if you look at of these numbers down here, these are all fever, gastrointestinal headache. You'll like this dizziness, respiratory. Basically 500 students at Stevens High okay. In 1819 and 280. Big difference. Actually, I don't know where the crackdown or something, but there's still four, four times more than four times those amount of kids would have had to go home with this list. The reason we're doing that is that we have a lot of work to do in catching up and looking at what those things are. And because we also know that flu season comes, forget on a regular basis. Students have those things. And then we it's hard to tease out what could be Covid and what. And that's why we are going to just go completely objectively all the way down.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we have to be we can't we we can't vary on it. So that was the idea. And it was very tough to describe that in, in the, the

[R10942-124] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: And ask a question. What are they doing this done. All right.
TEXT> So the two the two options though are the hybrid model. And the reason we varied the days to go Monday and Tuesday. Friday is so that we would see the student so that the student wouldn't go without interventions. The student wouldn't go without support in that they would that that was the rationale. So yes.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So some questions have been raised about that. And they're pretty good ones people have asked from an instructional standpoint it might make more sense. But by doing it that

[R10942-129] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: wiping down flat surfaces. We're exchanging the air every day. Deep clean is more for the foggers coming in. And we have also talked about that, about looking at other types of schedules for those. But I mean, we I definitely get that that point.
TEXT> We there were several questions that came. So I'm going to ask them all now because I had a lot of I read a lot of stuff. Yeah. When splitting kids into the two groups.  Yeah. How are you doing that? Yeah. Because if you do it by simply alphabetically, yeah, you're going to kind of risk having different groups of kids. And what I mean is, is normally at the elementary level, from what I know, they tend to split them up. So they're relatively even for the amount of different needs in the classroom. Sure. So that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Way at middle and high, the same.

[R10942-132] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: So is the plan to split it that way.
TEXT> Or is it. And that's why that's exactly why there's no there's no other way to do it. So the middle and high school schedules are already done. Right. So they're already in there. They're all sorted where classes are leveled at AP honors and things like that. That's that's  there's a leveling that way. Right. Then there's also the, the the other levels and people are spread out and then special ed students all over for middle and high. Same way already for the elementary when you go. So if you go for that alpha split. Okay. And this leads the question, why are we doing the hybrid at all? Right. So we're 12 and a class. And the amount of students that we have we have 1800 students. We take the population down to 19 in all the schools per day. We can get 12 in a class. That's the driver behind it. And it's really important to know that. And we have more slides after these that show this what the room looks like, what the bus looks like. All those particulars are coming okay. But that's but that's why. So in order to split that as evenly as we could, we first of all we had to run the schedules.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We had to go back down. We had to see how it balanced. But the next part that I talked about, that survey that's going out tomorrow is critical, right.

[R10942-140] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Because if the kids home school were losing eggs.
TEXT> Yeah, right. It's not considered homeschool for for this time period and normal. In the past it has been. But as of right now, they're not considering it any type of homeschool.  And it has a special ed component to it. So some of the special ed. So if a parent chooses to Bennu can talk about this a little bit. But if a child and and correct me if I'm wrong, if a child decides to do blacks and they have special ed their services ot speech, all those things can still be done by special A. So we're in the past. If a person homeschools then they they're they're put on child find and they don't receive services from special ed.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So do you know at this point if there will be live content or not?

[R10942-143] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: We have to wait until after the survey and talk to our staff. So we have to make sure with our staff as well. So you're hoping to be something. But we have to.
TEXT> So so so there is live content. So there's live content as promised by the commissioner and everyone through Black's. Okay. Where you have a teacher outside of our district assigned coursework and follow up, all at those grade levels. We also have the Odyssey where and we also know that we're going to have some. And this is the matter of degree. So we don't know how much of that will be pure blacks. And we don't know how much of that we can push in. We don't know our pool of kids yet. We don't know our pool of teachers yet. We will have that over the next week, and we will be building those, those cohorts to see what exactly what we can do. And we will get to that to as a precursor for, you know, with the teaching assignments and everything else.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And we'll be out when we send the survey out. We're going to send a survey out. And we're asking that and you'll see a little later on. But we're

[R10942-155] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. This slide. Yeah okay.
TEXT> Yeah I don't I can't get it. My mic on to go on. So. You may be able to just move your computer. Yeah I had a quick quick question about the all day masks. I don't remember that being an advisory task force recommendation. Yeah. And just so I'm just curious what changed, because the feeling was that if as long as social distancing was adhered to, as long as kids were in their chairs and six feet apart, that we were adhering to the guidelines. And, I mean, those are guidelines that are are, you know, utilized in restaurants and other professional environments.
NEXT> Unidentified: And so.

[R10942-157] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: And so.
TEXT> And we we feel that way on the brakes, but we don't feel that way with the masks and that because it it's not following the CDC. So when we when we looked at and again there there are some, there are some things  where when we looked at total we looked and we pulled and we talked to other administrators, we talked and we had the we went back and forth with the  nurses on this as well. But we predicated the entire decision upon keeping kids safe for as long as possible. All right. And as thoroughly as possible. When you start up in masks, we want to truth be told, it's tough doing this now. I'm not used to it. And it's going to be tough for for a lot of folks. We wanted to have the breaks so that they could be supervised breaks, because we have a few other slides to to show you about some of the things that are happening around the country where if you just say, you know it's okay, or if it's voluntary  to have them, it's like not having them at all, and we're not comfortable with that. The difference between schools  and Walmart and restaurants.  I don't see why we wouldn't follow  what Walmart does. I don't shop in Walmart for 6.5 hours a day. You know, I, I couldn't I mean.
NEXT> Unidentified: But.

[R10942-167] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: if we're going to require masks, full day on all kids with mask breaks at six feet, I guess I'm I'm curious what the difference between three feet of distance and six feet of distance. And if we can do three feet of distance. Well.
TEXT> Six feet is what the only change for three feet that ever crept in was for transportation from the New Hampshire Department of Education. CDC is is still a solid six feet. So in that that's kind of where we're when we talked about it, that's that's why we wanted to do it like that. It doesn't. That's what most of the area schools are using. That's an area states in New England. And  I'm not comfortable I'm not comfortable having that many students in not being at Walmart Standards or Market Basket. Does it make sense to to you? I mean, it doesn't make sense to me.
NEXT> Unidentified: And Jason.

[R10942-172] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Wasn't it?
TEXT> But there will be mask breaks throughout the day. So if a child is sitting at their desk and they're doing their work and the teacher will say, you know, you for the for the time being, you can remove your mask, you can put your mask down. So that way they can have a mask break. But if they're up moving around, then it's definitely.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: An outdoor classroom. And this distancing everything we can to have exchange of air into and to be outside and to do the healthiest practices we can, which we already

[R10942-197] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: And that's right.
TEXT> But they but nothing all of those haven't happened yet in the college kids aren't back and all the other. So I get it, I get I don't I know that I don't know and  I'm, I'm leaning towards not risking  and I'm not also and we're also revisiting this as a phased option and saying  how fast can we get back. So I would love it if we're wildly off in in a month or in two months. There's no blip on the screen. We're in and we're back. That that's a home run in my book, but I, I don't have that confidence level looking at what's happening when we close schools. I think there were 40 deaths in the country right in mid-March or so. I don't know exactly if maybe 40 there's there's 15,000 fatalities.  It's all over the place. We are blessed in this region.
NEXT> Unidentified: But if.

[R10942-211] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: department. So we're we're that's part of our function as well. Right. And we touch 400 lives and their extended families insurance plans and all of those impacts. And that comes in and some not everyone lives in Claremont. Not everyone lives in Sullivan County.
TEXT> Right. And I think the craziest thing about this is we're all trying to determine what everybody else thinks their risk factor is for returning their child to school or for themselves returning to school. I can't decide someone else's risk factor. You can't tell me that I should have. No worries. And my risk factor should be lower. Because. Because you think it should be based on the numbers. The the reality is, we can all argue about this for hours, but we need to figure something out. Right?
NEXT> Jason Benware: But but we can give them options that work for for the families in our community.

[R10942-218] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: cloth masks for every student, every staff member and multiple ones. We're going to launder those. We're going to assist with those are we also have face shields, a thousand of those that we were donated from Whalen that you'll see in a upcoming slide.
TEXT> And again, thank you. Thank you for for those again, more resources that we can use in other ways by getting those and the like. Okay. So these are this is a slide of what those masks look like, that were donated by Whalen. We have 1000 of those. They're all box labeled ready to go to the schools. These are the masks that we purchased with logos on them so that they're not so that they're, you know, they have some school spirit, and we're all going to wear them and we're going to model it as well. With, with the students so that we, we have that, that coverage along with the social distancing six feet is the CDC y 3 to 6. And for how long?  CDC is what we are going with. And I want to show you the examples of what rooms look like. And we couldn't get, we couldn't get kids. Okay. To, to  to be models for this, for obvious reasons. So we, we had to enlist some, some some people. Okay. You might recognize. All right. So this is what our bus will look like okay. With Plexiglas all around it for the driver. This is really important for the community to know and for the board to know logistically. We have nine busses. Okay. Newport, there's a lot of comparisons to Newport having two options and things like that. Newport has almost half. We have almost twice as many students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have the same amount of busses and we have a larger catchment. We have a lot going on with our bus. We only have seven drivers. We have right

[R10942-219] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: really important for the community to know and for the board to know logistically. We have nine busses. Okay. Newport, there's a lot of comparisons to Newport having two options and things like that. Newport has almost half. We have almost twice as many students.
TEXT> We have the same amount of busses  and we have a larger catchment. We  have a lot going on with our bus. We only have seven drivers. We have right now. We've already lost two drivers. Okay. We could lose more drivers. Drivers are scarce. They're not training drivers right now. They're not even holding trainings because of Covid. If you don't have a staff to drive the busses, you don't have busses. So again and I'll show you the slides. Okay. We were on the busses. This kid right here was a punk.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R10942-224] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: foot spacing, we couldn't do it. Okay. This is what it actually is, seat to seat, right in the middle of the seat. It's two feet from mouth to back of head. Okay. Or less actually, that's you know, it's it's less than that. Yes.
TEXT> So with adults I see that as an issue. Has there been anything raised about elementary kids who have a barrier between them and the kid in front of them? Does it really does that matter? I mean, you know,  if I'm a little six year old and I've got a seat back that I'm looking directly into  does that.
NEXT> Unidentified: But.

[R10942-231] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: No, I, I.
TEXT> Get it, I get it. If it is there a barrier between if a kid's head is lower. Yes. But not but not.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Full of six six year olds. There's 12 year olds.

[R10942-236] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: To.
TEXT> To to show and calm the people down. Because we've had questions on this out there. What's it going to look like? You know, and so  if we go all the way to back and these are, these are adults, these would be the big kids. Although believe it, we have kids much bigger than me and Stevens. All right. And all the way down. If we have 12, six and six, and then if we stagger as well. So if on this side we're on that seat. So it's diagonal. It's nice and roomy. If we have siblings in there, we can get between 12 to 18 to 20. That would show.  That would get us to the numbers that we've already projected. These are the last year's actual numbers. These are the only two we would get clean multiple runs up by,  you know, where we would have 12. These are the busses we actually have. One is used for special ed runs. That was our whole ridership of 646. We saw with half not a full sample of our survey, that we put out a strong  a strong response to the survey, but not full that if predicted that if it's happed again, we'll be right in there for this to be able to pull off the two cohorts, that's the two cohorts. That's why every other we wouldn't even be close if we were.
NEXT> Unidentified: Full.

[R10942-238] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Full.
TEXT> For the amount of kids we again, we don't know. These are unknowns. We don't know. We got a survey. We got to get it typed, we get a pair it off. And we're very hopeful. But we have to get on it ASAP.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And and one of the things too that, you know, we're looking at busses. I don't know if anybody's ever driven behind a school bus. The kids aren't sitting nicely

[R10942-240] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: you know, and now they're going to have to sit with their brother and sister in these types of cases, because we need to make sure that we can get everybody that we can. So, you know, we'll try to accommodate as best we can.
TEXT> So these and now we're talking about space in the room. So the this is what bluff looks like. We have it 12. What. You'll notice that you can see that it's tougher to see is kind of projections that are in the room cabinets, heaters, desks and things like that that can kind of cut in. But all of the principles are confident that they can have 12, in some cases even more depending on some rooms are bigger, some some are L-shaped. So they're very confident at 12 to 14 or 15. So most of our elementary class sizes are around 20. Anyway, one of the things that we're already looking at doing, because we have to and I wish we had done it last year, is we're going to look at the enrollment. First of all, when we send the survey out, it may be the case that we have to use staff. Some staff, as we said before, may want to do remote. And that would be a remote group of teachers for a remote group of students. But some staff also, if we are lopsided, like we got caught over the some of the bluff sizes were really low, some of the maple sizes were high. We had some classrooms with about ten of them, and then we had 24.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So if that's the case, we're going to make cohorts either if they're virtual okay or if we have to transfer a teacher to another building or things like that,

[R10942-244] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: or doing work with them, then I would ask them to put their mask on for for the safety of all of us, you know, so those types of things, that's why we're saying, you know, the kids should have about having mask as well.
TEXT> So  when we talk about class space and class size, have you looked at I mean, because so Stephens High School, we traditionally have histories in this room. Science is here. So have you looked at, say,  the French class is very small, so they don't need a full size class. So we're not doing your historical classes now we're moving French to this small room because you only got five kids and you're looking to do history. History has 15 kids. So you need the big room that used to be science and are you're looking at that type of thing.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[R10942-247] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: as possible. Again. We didn't ask for this. Hopefully you're skinned. You're fine. You go. You are received by your homeroom teacher. If not, you are going immediately into a cordoned off area of the gym. We have to. We're not going to have gym.
TEXT> We're not going to have gym. We're going to use gym. We're going to use the. Every room that we have is functionally to your point, as we need to we need to have we're mandated to have holding areas. So no one and again this is state guidance. But we don't know. Frankly we had this conversation. And I'll share it with you because we don't have all the answers. That's another frustrating thing right. Because we're doing it on the fly as well. But if students come in and we have one, what's the difference between and this? We know we're going to face this. If we see kids with flu like symptoms. There's one, there's two. It's October. That's again why we have the slide. We're going to separate them off. We're going to see we're not going to overreact and think that's an outbreak and close the school immediately. We have to be with the CDC. We have to get kind of our our new chops to this down and, and and do all those things. So that's what we're trying to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I.

[R10942-255] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: But to.
TEXT> To Mr. patrons. But we maybe we don't use that. We use another room. We use part of the gym. We use whatever we have to. And same layout,  we'll get to extracurricular activities again. This is one of the slides. And I urge you to look at chan stuff and then look at also the guidance for it doesn't make sense when you see you sports out there having soccer practices and things like that. What, what we're looking at and what I'm trying to. I'm working with Doug Beaupré, area superintendents in the southwest, as well as, we had a conference call with the director of the Naia,  Jeff Collins, and other athletic directors. We're looking at proposals that we're we're actively trying to do where we may have students  in lieu of traditional. These are some of the things that have been bandied around having for soccer, for example, first of all, getting rid of contact sports. Okay.  All of them. Okay. In the region. That that is a real possibility. You know, you and H has already canceled the fall season. Again. We're not overreacting. I'm just telling you what what we're looking at because we would rather have options for kids to be healthy. And whether that's playing five on five soccer, five on five field hockey, five, whatever it is, or skills and drills.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And then what? Also, I don't believe it's voted on yet. I think all they voted on was the pushing the start date of sports to the 8th of September.

[R10942-278] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So that's not to find anyone. Right.
TEXT> No I think that's colloquial. I don't even know that it's. Yeah I but it, it  I share your, your your sentiment on that we that's why we weren't waiting. We were getting frustrating. We know we know that we're starting the impact concussion testing. We we're we haven't stopped anything okay. But I don't know how we're going to reconcile the transportation. So if we if we can get around that, I think we're good. I do think that we probably will have more information  from that Naia and from other, other guiding documents. We're all hoping for it, because I know that there are many districts who,  if they haven't already, have already canceled those sports outright, and they did that weeks ago, and we're not in a position to do that. You mentioned that the old Interstate League, Doug group, he's already reached out to the Vermont schools. They're already working drafting what schedules might work, you know, and things like that, anticipating maybe there's a flood of kids if we don't.
NEXT> Unidentified: Have.

[R10942-280] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Have.
TEXT> Football or some or soccer, all there's a flood of kids who want to golf or all these, we don't know. So but it's it's. It's it's it's a challenge. It is to say the least. And all right. So, yeah, the crowded situations, anything requiring forced breathing. This was one that I hadn't thought about till I. We talked about singing and that that's why we have the similar. If you don't mind demonstrating if you want to sing an aria or something. But but devices like that so that you're not, you're not expelling, you know. Droplets and getting on people. That's why we have those guards that we have. These are were made by the prisoners.  Nicely made.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: They were very fortunate to have have people creating these forums.

[R10942-284] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Resource.
TEXT> The educational models that we talked about in person remote, I think we had this was a holdover from from the last presentation, but we wanted to go over it again and show folks where they could see all that. These these the temperature checks, the 14 day quarantines outside of New England for everyone. These are these are going to be tough to enforce deep cleaning. We can talk about some of those things that we're doing in the cohorts of of students. This was a point that was made where we're ever possible. We're going to try to push.
NEXT> Unidentified: The.

[R10942-296] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: In the clear, the clear plastic dividers. Are you talking about. Those are for desks. Students desks.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. The child has to come back to like, a kid table to work with a teacher. They have these devices. They can work with the future.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So there's nothing that's going to be going on the children's desks to to give them an opportunity to not wear their masks during the day. If I understand.

[R10942-306] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well, we're talking about masks and barriers. And that brought back to mind there's been a question and the question I had, washing the mask, cleaning the mess that was brought up, who's going to be laundering the the cloth masks?
TEXT> We're gonna we're gonna we want them to stay with the student and be issued. We have extra.  We also we do have a few places. We have a washing machine here in the tech upstairs. We have a few others  scattered around. We're going to try. To provide those in between if there's an issue with it. With a student, we're going to try to assist families that way. We've heard from folks at that could be a hardship. In addition to the cloth, we we will we have thousands of disposables as well.  So and we're not you know, people can bring in their own masks as well. We we just wanted to make sure  in terms of, from a perspective of fate pre inappropriate public education, that we had enough for everyone no matter what. And that that rationale was in all of our decision making. So same same concept with technology access  even even to some of the things that use grant money to have have I don't a jet pack.  Hotspot on on a student's Chromebook. Even if their family doesn't have it, the student will have it. So just just for access inequity. Thank you. Yeah, sure. All right. So.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This this is something that we talked about the indicators monthly to to remain modify or exit phase and go in. We're going to look at at the area the

[R10942-307] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the things that use grant money to have have I don't a jet pack. Hotspot on on a student's Chromebook. Even if their family doesn't have it, the student will have it. So just just for access inequity. Thank you. Yeah, sure. All right. So.
TEXT> This this is something that we talked about the indicators monthly to to remain modify or exit phase and go in. We're going to look at at the area the amount of incidents we have, what kids are what kids are exhibiting. Meet with the nurses, meet with area nurses, meet with the local hospital and the folks at Dartmouth-Hitchcock who have been a great resource. See how that goes. Obviously, the part of health as as we said, as we wanted to our cases get their advice. It's a learning curve for everyone, but we're going to we have a great team that will be on that. We want to be able to report out to you the number of cases, too. And that's going to be our expectation of the of the nurses. We already track the things in power school. And but we're going to be we're probably going to have other you know like exactly how many instances how we've added it ongoing. Is it an ongoing allergy again. And I'm I'm not talking like a nurse, I'm just talking like a spreadsheet guy. But we'll have all of that stuff, so that we can report out and track that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, we want to make sure we have all of those things, just like we're tracking all the things we're submitting for cares, reimbursement and grant that is in those

[R10942-312] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: are struggling with I know what it's like to drop your, your, your kid off and trust others, you know, to to take care of your child. So that's pretty much what our foyer will look like. Or someone will be there for the temperature.
TEXT> The warm greeting, first of all, like there's always been, that starts with the bus drivers. To which I wish if you ever want to ride. They're amazing. You know every kid by name. They greet them every right away. But that's that. That will also be a temperature check, and we hope to have that down quickly. We're hoping to get assistance, not the bus drivers doing it themselves. We don't want big lines. We don't want it to be more dangerous of a backup. People running around, you know, but we we  we are working on that as well. This is our framework document that we agree to. Took from,  a fall mountain. I think it's just the most brilliant document I've seen around in terms of planning purposes. So we called Lori and she sent it right to us. Have at it. And we've shared stuff  the other way as well.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: We use the same format, but the information. That you see. It pertains to our, our district, of course, and all the all the items such as these here actually

[R10942-327] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Can you elaborate on what a personalized. Learning is.
TEXT> But it depends if we're working on it right now with the with the curriculum committee to to look at what does it look like? We actually purchased. And we're looking at a book called The Digital Playbook. And it kind of talks about what digital learning should look like. So a personal personalized learning day may not necessarily it's not necessarily going to be a remote type of day. So it could be if your child receives special ed services, it could be a day that they're receiving specialized services. It could be a day where  they're working on a certain project, and that's the data that they're going to work on. It could be the day that they do, there, artwork or PE or any of their specials. It could be that type of day one.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: One example that I thought was pretty exciting that they put a lot of thought into it at the, at the middle school was they have the two different cohorts.

[R10942-329] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: okay for as long as we need them. Hopefully it's only a month or so, but but then the the focus is through the web presence, through all the other. We know we have to raise the bar for ourselves and building capacity to teach.
TEXT> This way we don't know exactly what it looks like and we are all in with all of our PD as a focus this year to do it. But we also know the challenges, as Donna was saying, families and of students and things like that. We're we're in a lot of families. The the student, even in the elementary grades, is showing the parents how to do it and what the expectation is. And then but then we're hoping that we can reach out both through our traditional and then other traditional ways. We have two new social workers as well, doing a lot of outreach and and providing more push in and, and other types of asynchronous or tutorials that people can log in once they get comfortable with that to really build capacity. Because now now it's on us, right? That we was an emergency before. Now our entire year is focused on doing this and doing this well. I really can't see there ever being another snow day right? In many parts of the country. If we have a remote, we're going to now going to be 1 to 1.  If those are now going to be called remote days, in that we're not going to miss a beat.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: If the expectations were all there and knowing to with this model and if there's an outbreak, we have to we have to be ready to pivot back if we

