[R16602-373] Candace Crawford | School Board Member (sentence onset clipped into adjacent cluster) | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: And let's. Say.
TEXT> They. They might be covered in the pilot program. They might be covered in the drop in. But then there also might be children who are in the push out services. Who comes to get the services.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: I'm not sure I understand your question, but let me try to answer you. If a child is in the pilot program, they're in the pilot program, nothing else.

[R16602-374] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: They. They might be covered in the pilot program. They might be covered in the drop in. But then there also might be children who are in the push out services. Who comes to get the services.
TEXT> I'm not sure I understand your question, but let me try to answer you. If a child is in the pilot program, they're in the pilot program, nothing else.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R16602-381] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: And so where do push out services fit in?
TEXT> For students who may enroll in another different program.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: May. Add something. To that somewhere else. We've had students previously, for example, who attend Head Start in the morning and then would come to our preschool program in the

[R16602-382] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal (sentence onset clipped into adjacent cluster | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: For students who may enroll in another different program.
TEXT> May. Add something. To that somewhere else. We've had students previously, for example, who attend Head Start in the morning and then would come to our preschool program in the afternoon to receive their identified the Heavenly Pea. They would get their their special education services at our former program. So with the great community relationships we have with these partners, right. We could say to Head Start. Hey,  you've got two kiddos that need speech and language. Could we send our speech language pathologist over or our assistant over and provide those services in you?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I see.

[R16602-384] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-06-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: I see.
TEXT> So that it's not a cumbersome piece for for parents. It doesn't cause transportation concerns on our end.  So that that's how those  kids who are already enrolled in some of those places.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Right.

[R16602-394] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: that. The we don't. I had asked for case loads for related service people a couple of times. Haven't seen that. So I'm trying to figure out how do you know how many people you need to do all of this? How do you know?
TEXT> So, Mr. Sprague, first, y'all all y'all tasked me to do a job to provide services for children in this community that federal law says we have to provide.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We have to offer.

[R16602-396] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: We have to offer.
TEXT> We offer. Provide now. Now we're playing semantics. We have to provide services.  And then you took the funding away for those services. So we are trying to find a creative way to best provide services without it being. Uncontrolled costs to this district. We have preschool students who are non-verbal. We talk about global developmental delay, nonverbal,  non-touch. Very aggressive federal law. ID says we have to provide them a fate. Now, the  first conversation I had a year ago, February, was Miss Crawford asked me, what what would your idea be to start bringing back kids from out of district, which is out of control. If we don't do something? We've probably got a dozen kids. We have to provide a fate for. And that papes going to be us paying for them to go out of district somewhere. I gave you an in the last report I did for you. Our elementary. Self-contained numbers. We have 17 this year. Next year is going to be 29. And if we don't have good running programs for them there, they're out of district placement. Cost could be upwards of over $22 million. Preschool. There's going to be even more money. And in that report, I'm going to touch on the next thing I gave you. I didn't give you name. Their caseload. Name, their caseload. Preschool. I have 58 students and nieces.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: The state special education database, 58 students, 3 to 5 year olds. I'm not here to make stuff up or give myself this. I'm sorry. And you said I didn't.

[R16602-397] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: upwards of over $22 million. Preschool. There's going to be even more money. And in that report, I'm going to touch on the next thing I gave you. I didn't give you name. Their caseload. Name, their caseload. Preschool. I have 58 students and nieces.
TEXT> The state special education database, 58 students, 3 to 5 year olds. I'm not here to make stuff up or give myself this. I'm sorry. And you said I didn't. We planned. We've met. We've been meeting Melissa. I'm sorry. I'm a little tired. I'm a little charged right now, and I'll shut up in a minute. But to sit here and say we haven't planned, we haven't done our job is really insulting. After you've given me a task to do and you've given me nothing to do it with. I find it very insulting and very degrading and very demeaning.  And I'm just going to shut up now because I'm going to get myself in trouble.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So let me. Follow up. So we so we know that a lot of our case managers are giving out in teams or giving out services that kids don't really

[R16602-402] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: I think. There's 58 in there. Some are in process. So it's it's in flux. But so but they're 58.
TEXT> So we know we're giving out services kids don't need. We know that I.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Frank. Frank. We do. Know Frank. You are. You were just making stuff up with that. Kids do not get services unless a professional team says they need those services.

[R16602-403] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 (sentence onset clipped into adjac | 2025-06-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we know we're giving out services kids don't need. We know that I.
TEXT> Frank. Frank. We do. Know Frank. You are. You were just making stuff up with that. Kids do not get services unless a professional team says they need those services. They're professionals that are making those calls, and I find that so insulting as a professional. And having been a special educator, we don't just here have some magic special ed candy and come hang. That is so wrong. Kids are identified for a reason because they have a cognitive delay, because they have something wrong.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I said in hundreds of IEP meetings, Mike, I know. But I'm telling you. So we have made our own.

[R16602-412] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 (sentence onset clipped into adjac | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: the certified administrator overseeing a program. We did vote because of the quality and the missing components to the pre-K as it had been established. I and my one question had to do with powers. How many powers are we bringing into the pre-K for?
TEXT> For part. Of that is we haven't identified the students yet, so I don't know how many students may have one to ones or not. Of the so. Of 12, we can have a max of 12 and one setting of 12 students.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: All right. For those 12 students who are already identified? Yes. How many powers do we need?

[R16602-413] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: For part. Of that is we haven't identified the students yet, so I don't know how many students may have one to ones or not. Of the so. Of 12, we can have a max of 12 and one setting of 12 students.
TEXT> All right. For those 12 students  who are already identified? Yes.  How many powers do we need?
NEXT> Mike McCosker: I. I don't know without until we know who the 12 students are. Oh, we're. Trying to fly this. We're trying to build this plane as.

[R16602-414] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 (sentence onset clipped into adjac | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: All right. For those 12 students who are already identified? Yes. How many powers do we need?
TEXT> I. I don't know without until we know who the 12 students are. Oh, we're. Trying to fly this. We're trying to build this plane as.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: We have 12 slots.

[R16602-416] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 (correcting '12 slots' to '12 spot | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: We have 12 slots.
TEXT> 12 slots? We don't have 12 students yet. We have 12 spots.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: My question has to do with my other question has to do with drop in versus those students who are in the pre-K in the morning.

[R16602-417] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: 12 slots? We don't have 12 students yet. We have 12 spots.
TEXT> My question has to do with my other question has to do with drop in versus those students who are in the pre-K in the morning.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R16602-419] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> From what I heard, and I think I understand they're going to have special ed teacher and whatever services they need according to their IEP. Correct. In the afternoon, you're going to have students coming in who will also need those services and the services of a special education teacher.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Correct.

[R16602-421] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: Correct.
TEXT> So how is it different from the students who are there for the pre-K pilot versus the drop in.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: That drop in maybe a half an hour service? So that would be all they need.

[R16602-427] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: In the afternoon. And will they be bussed or how will that work.
TEXT> To be determined? Part of it. Were parents brought kids to to the current one part of it? Some of them were busted. Okay.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So and my other question has to do with the way pre-K had been established. One of my issues with that was there are developmental outcomes from the state as

[R16602-429] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: was not aligned with those from what I could see and from what I was told at the time. So I'm hoping and I'm wondering if the program will be aligned with those developmental outcomes, and then the assessment will be based on those developmental.
TEXT> The curriculum is going to absolutely connect to the New Hampshire early learning standards. Right. That's the have to that is the curriculum and various tools to help us get there. The other piece of of the four year old pieces we can start to bring on for kids that it's appropriate for some of those early literacy programs we use, like Hegarty. Right. In terms of the assessment, the data is what was used to determine the determination that Mike was referring to where we did not where we we received some things for preschool. That data is what the state requires, I believe us to use in terms of measuring growth. That doesn't limit us to just using that, but that is what we're required by the state to use. We can certainly develop our own and I think intend to our own in-house, measures. So we can see from the day the child joined us because as you know, that's a that can be a rolling kids turn three all year long. Right. And so there could potentially be a little turnover there depending on, on that kind of a thing. So we want to know  what I would expect as a principal when student joined on day one. What could they do? What can they do on day whatever when they leave? That's that's what I want to measure and to see what. Because that's going to inform where we go from there.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We're pushing on 9:00 now and we have about 32 policies to do.

[R16602-433] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: We're going to have to do them tonight so they can be put into the handbook. Okay. Unfortunately.
TEXT> May I just make one comment? Because I think Frank Frank's first concern.  Certainly you feel like it was. Well, we're going to do it anyways. I just want to share. I did not feel that way.  I felt like we've got this group of students. Wow. When you read their IEP,  the amount of services that they do require is significant. And so how in a drop in model would we arrange all of that? Because we've also got to think of our transportation system  and in and out. It won't even cover, you know, won't even describe it for some kids. So how do we build that meaningful experience so that they're not there just for 30 minutes for speech? But if they get OT two, can we tack that on. So it's really going to be coordinated.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How are you going to do this physically and mentally. How are you going to do this this. I mean. I. Mean you're the person to.

[R16602-505] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> I think we're good. The others  our attendance student conduct discipline. And I think that's it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. So. Miss Crawford, would you like to discuss the finance?

[R16602-565] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (calls the vote; segment also absorbs start of Poli | 2025-06-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So I would. Draw my to secondary. Yeah. Withdraw my motion and change it to move to second read okay.
TEXT> That's a friendly of motion. So friendly amendment. So we'll just call it we'll call it. Good. So any other nope. All in favor of adopting the motions with a friendly amendment, as Mr. Sprague made, say I, I  all those policies have been adopted as Hawkins already missing anything else? Well, we have the policies for attendance, student conduct and student discipline due process, which will have impact for handbooks.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Correct. So do you want me to go into the very briefly J h and this is aligned with what comments were made earlier about handbooks. Because this is language

[R16602-566] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair (voice reassigned - late-m | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: the motions with a friendly amendment, as Mr. Sprague made, say I, I all those policies have been adopted as Hawkins already missing anything else? Well, we have the policies for attendance, student conduct and student discipline due process, which will have impact for handbooks.
TEXT> Correct. So do you want me to go into the very briefly J h and this is aligned with what comments were made earlier about handbooks. Because this is language that can be included K to 12. And then it includes what exactly is an excuse absence. You all have this in your packet. It talks about truancy and it takes it out of the statute that ten half days of unexcused absence is considered habitual truancy. And it really gives clear definitions as to absences, attendance and truancy. And how do we keep the student from the early grades in school so they can learn to read and write? And so they will stay in school through high school. So it's very involved and it's more of an intervention status than a disciplinary status. In other words, how do we intervene to help the student stay in school rather than being punitive toward the student?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'd like to. Make a motion that we can have discussion. I'd like to make a motion to. Do you think this should be first read or.

[R16602-608] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Committee Chair (voice reassigned - late-m | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Policy is adopted as amended. Thank you.
TEXT> JICD student discipline due process was in the packet that was sent to us electronically and we were accepting the sample as was written. I don't have any of my pockets.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I got it right here.

[R16602-611] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: C discipline.
TEXT> I'd like to make a motion to adopt this evening. Policy JICD student discipline and due process, I guess. Second, second. Mr. Howard seconds open to discussion again. Is there any specificity that the policy committee felt that should be in here?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: We were comfortable with the sample that we utilize from the New Hampshire School Board Association.

[R16764-20] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-14
PREV> Candace Crawford: Will we be adopting all of them at once or.
TEXT> I'm going to do one at a time so people can peel off. So I would like to make a motion to adopt the Stevens High School,  student handbook. Student handbook as amended.  As spoken in the meeting. Is there any further discussion? Second and second from Mr. Peter. And all in favor say aye. Aye.  Stevens High School handbook is approved. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.  Moving on to, with anyone from the that. Miss great. We got to introduce you. Kerry Kennedy. She is our new principal at Claremont Middle School.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Hello. Good evening. Nice to meet everybody. So officially. So I appreciate the time and effort is taking into the handbook here. So, just Mr. Madden to follow up a

[R16764-43] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (policy presentation; opening a | 2025-08-14
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Yes.
TEXT> Thank you, Mr. Sprague. All right. All in favor of adopting after second, read the following  policies. DADBDBJDEADFADGADIEDKJLCF and procedures EHBRDAFR2DAF-R3. Any further discussion c no discussion. All in favor of adoption, say  I a adoption of all the policies stated as has happened.  Next. Yeah. The next motion is  that we adopt on the first read these  policies JFA and g b, c, e were also in your packet. The admission of resident students came to us from Mr. Kosky, and training and information relative to child sexual abuse came from the superintendent. And we've had these on our agenda for a long time. So you're pretty straightforward. So since we have been doing first reads and adoptions, we're recommending that for these two policies. Okay. Would anyone like to make a motion other than me? Nope. Okay. I'll move.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: No.

[R16764-79] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-08-14
PREV> Mary Henry: Up to date. Up to date. Oh, yes. Up to date. Every payroll they get paid on the Friday payroll goes out.
TEXT> Now, what hasn't been explicitly stated, but I got to ask the question. Is there a threat to school opening in two weeks? If we're talking about these many millions of dollars? I gotta assume we're in jeopardy. So at this point, do we won the parents? Do we want the teachers? Hey. And you know what that's going to do us for the next ten, 15 years trying to hire people. And it's because of mismanagement.  Us. I also think we got to get the word out. We got to tell the parents, get on the computer. Sign your kid up for his money. View latch courses as you can possibly take. And when everybody from the city of Claremont tries to get on board, I know when my son was doing it, we had as much as one month to get on. Between the time you sign up and you get  an instructor assigned. So. You know,  I was telling one of my board members that. My kids in the Marine Corps boot camp now and today. On YouTube, Kenny Chesney came on. And the song is Don't blink because a hundred years goes by faster than you think. And I swear it was a blink that my kid came to live with me three years ago, and now we really, really let down at least one generation of kids.  And it's also,  I find it hard. I find it hard to believe.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I think the term that's been used is nothing nefarious has taken place. I don't know how you go from 1 million to X million in three months, and nothing

[R16764-141] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-08-14
PREV> Chris Pratt: Thank you.
TEXT> But I also want to point out that now six months have gone by and our plan was to watch it. Well, we watched it. We didn't take any action. So management again failed. All of us at this in this room have failed. It's not the students. It's not the parents. It's not the funding source from whatever. It's not the teachers. It's the people in this room, including myself.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Does anyone have any other questions?

[R16764-143] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2025-08-14
PREV> Heather Whitney: Does anyone have any other questions?
TEXT> I don't have a question. I have a comment. We are representatives of the community and we are advocates for students, teachers, educators, families. And we would be offending those people if we were not outraged by this. We are and we are. We have asked the taxpayers of Claremont more times to dip into their pockets to fund what everyone wants quality schools, well-run schools. We have worked hard the last few years to have that happen. My question I do have a question is how do we make sure we're not back here next year asking the same question, having the same conversation? We're in survival mode right now. I don't know how do we move forward without having information and data that we need? We are  obligated to this city to stand up for our families and kids. It's  all that's.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think you've just said what everybody is feeling.

[R16764-197] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Sullivan District 8 | 2025-08-14
PREV> Hope Damon: different questions of whether the school district could collaborate with the city and have the city assist with fiscal management or with obtaining a bond issue, so that we wouldn't be asking taxpayers for an appropriation that, as has been noted by several, is simply
TEXT> not very likely to pass and just isn't really feasible for most taxpayers to pay. The bond would allow paying over a period of maybe ten years to eliminate the deficit. And I'm just other folks, I'm sure, if thought of that, but it hasn't been mentioned, so I think it's worth putting out there. And whether there has been any discussion of collaboration with the city would be useful information, I think, for folks to know. I'm sitting here as a person whose kids are grown up, but putting my head in the place of being a parent, if I was listening to this, I'd be both extremely concerned and also be saying, tell me how to plan. Is school going to open, or do I need to make other arrangements for a week or two, or something more than that? And it with great respect to all of you who are working at trying to figure this out and solve this for me, listening here, I'm not hearing any specifics about short term solutions to deal with the cash flow crisis, and I know I'm going to be getting asked about that probably in the next ten minutes. So if  and I appreciate that, the specifics may very well not be known, but any amount  of. Perspective on short term solutions, I think people are really needing to hear. And thank you very much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Pratt.

[R16764-213] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (recognized by the chair) | 2025-08-14
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague, and I'll get back to you.
TEXT> I just want to make a clarifying. Point. About what Miss Damon had said when you were talking about the 67%. What you're talking about used to be catastrophic aid, and it's special ed aid. Those that money is not for the general special ed. That money is for extraordinary costs. And so if a student is in a very expensive placement, for example, we reach a certain cap and above that the state pays the 67%. So it does not compensate for the whole special ed.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: Thank you.

[R16764-231] Gary Merchant | Public commenter (Ward 2, Claremont) | 2025-08-14
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: district. So, like that's. A nonstarter. The solution here is maybe the legislature makes a change or something, but under current law, there is no fix that I'm aware of. Like there's no borrowing money to pay out, pay off this debt. If I just.
TEXT> If I can be of any help. Thank you. Okay. That's what I'm trying to say. I don't have all the answers, but if I can try to help problem solve it, mediate what it's going to be. This is critically important to community I grew up in. It's important to our  students, in our parents and taxpayers. But if I can be assistance in any capacity, within reason, like more than glad to help.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Thank you. Gary and Gary, we appreciate your effort. And and our responses are simply to to share information that in the process of working on this, we have

[R16776-11] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified: Have ever seen.
TEXT> Briefly to make sure that everyone in attendance. Is that better? School board meeting. Read the letter from  Caitlin Davis. She is the Commissioner of Education. And bear with me. I received it ten minutes ago, so I haven't had a chance to practice.  Dear school Board, the New Hampshire Department of Education is aware of the serious financial challenges currently affecting the Claremont School District and recognizes the uncertainty this has created in the Claremont community. The Department is actively engaged in supporting your district as it works to address these issues. At this time, this remains largely a local issue for the Claremont School District. The Department will continue to work closely with your district's legal counsel,  school board and administration as the district develops a path forward to meet its educational obligations, including ensuring students can return to school this fall in a safe, operational learning environment by addressing immediate cash flow concerns. Accounting for all revenues and expenditures in fiscal year 2025. In order to close the books and then determine appropriate remedies to address steps taken to close out prior obligations and address any identified deficits. Renewing its current year's budget and identifying strategies to to adequately support students and community needs for the full 2526 school year. Completing all required financial audits.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Establishing and implementing budget controls to safeguard funeral financial stability, and providing New Hampshire education and and a regular updates as progress is made. The New Hampshire Education Department is

[R16776-13] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: arrived at this moment. Further audits under the oversight of Plasma and Sanders and our new comp controller, Mr. Angel, are already underway. These efforts will help us gain a clearer picture of the causes and conditions that brought us here in the first place.
TEXT> Much like the abrupt and disruptive nature of the pandemic, this crisis has taken shape suddenly and with wide reaching impact. But unlike the pandemic, we are weathering the storm largely on our own. There will be no influx of emergency funding  or broad government support. Crisis management requires priorities for the district. The top priority in the coming days and weeks is to ensure that every student has a place to learn, that every parent can rest knowing our doors are open. All of our energy is focused on opening schools, stabilizing operations, and maximizing every available resource to ensure children continue to receive the education they deserve. This will not be easy, but by keeping our focus on students and by sharing information open and honestly, we will find a  path forward as a community. Tonight, there will be no votes on appropriations. No proposals to raise funds, and no discussion of specific cuts. At this time, we simply do not have the details needed to move in that direction. As the financial picture becomes clearer and appropriations are required, every member of this community will have the opportunity to weigh in. That process will happen publicly through hearings, deliberative sessions, and ultimately at the ballot box. What will we what we will be tackling tonight is sharing what information we do have. This is simply a starting point and an effort to be honest.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We have a number of people that many in the Saudis have not seen before. Mike Campo. He is our auditor from Cosmic and standards, Ben. He's been a tremendous

[R16776-24] James O'Shaughnessy | District Legal Counsel, Claremont School District | 2025-08-20
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: tools aren't there. So we're in unchartered territory and trying to evaluate whether that's an option and whether it's necessary. It makes sense to try to get the state to put the district into receivership. As you can tell, that already sounds like a process.
TEXT> So again, not not what we're focusing on at the moment.  You heard from the commissioner and I want to repeat that the  commissioner of that in the Finance Office have been very, very helpful  in sort of helping us set the path forward, encouraging us to open at school  and  working with us to figure out what the long term recovery plan would look like. We believe the governor's office is informed and up to speed of the situation, and we have kept the New Hampshire legislative delegation. Some of them are here today informed of what's going on. Thank you for being here, folks. Again, we're in a historic place right now. This is an unprecedented situation, and the laws of New Hampshire just don't equip us to help ourselves out of it. We're going to need the help of the state, the governor, the executive branch, and the legislature to fix this problem. We're going to have to work together to help the students, teachers in the city. It's really all I have right now. I'm going to pass  this back to Heather. And if there are questions during public comment I can be helpful with, I will be here and hopefully help answer questions.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Next, we're going to turn the mic over to Mr. Nicole Campo. He's the auditor from Cosmic and Sanderson, and he's going to give us an explanation of the audit

[R16776-39] Sherry Williams | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Patrick Adrian: staff, either today or yesterday, assuring them that the school will start on time and not to listen to any of the rumors. So there's very contradictory evidence going on. It doesn't seem like you all are on the same page. That really worries me.
TEXT> Just going to adjust this a little to make sure that you can see us clearly. My name is Sherry Williams. I'm a voter in Ward two.  I just want to start by like this other gentleman said, and just let you all know that I am a supporter of our leadership.  I'm a new  property owner. I've only been in Claremont for three years as a property owner, although I did grow up in Claremont. I graduated from Stevens  and now that I'm back in Claremont, I will have  three of my for children who will have graduated from Stevens. I have immense pride in this school and in this school district.  I wanted to start by making sure  that as school board members, many of you who either have or have had students in this district to make sure that you understand  what we as parents are going through, and I'm not going to speak that I'm saying for everybody, but for my family.
NEXT> Sherry Williams: I have one student left in the high school. And the effect that this is having on me is that my high school student may or may not start, and

[R16776-40] Sherry Williams | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Sherry Williams: as school board members, many of you who either have or have had students in this district to make sure that you understand what we as parents are going through, and I'm not going to speak that I'm saying for everybody, but for my family.
TEXT> I have one student left in the high school. And the effect that this is having on me is that my high school student may or may not start, and this is not a pass fail year. This is every day in school  counts toward credits or it doesn't. And  one of the questions that I have is all the way down in the weeds about if my child starts school on the, in essence, the beginning of September and is only in school for one month, how was that going to filter down into credits earned? I'm looking at credits for him. I'm looking at if I can't guarantee that one month of education is going to equate to something. On his transcript before he puts that month into time here,  I have to find another option. And your entire  town is having to make that same decision. I also want to. Second, I am a supporter of our leadership and am very disheartened that some of our leaders are not here tonight. I was very disheartened to see item number three on the agenda being taken off of the agenda, because the current state of our finances and here can open up on September 1st or not, and that change should not have happened. I do want to ask if this new controller  is replacing Miss Henry, or if she is in addition to Miss Henry.
NEXT> Sherry Williams: I think we deserve to know if the people who are not here tonight, who I have nothing but support for until tonight. If we can know why they're not

[R16776-44] Nicole | Public commenter; rising senior, Stevens High School (first name only, | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified: Can you tell us why this board? Why why, why?
TEXT> Good evening. My name. Is Nicole, and I'm a rising senior here at Stevens High School. I want to explain how this dispute may affect me personally. I've written my thoughts down as it's an important subject to me. And I want to speak my thoughts as eloquently as possible. The last three years of my life here at Stevens, I have worked vigorously in my academics in preparation of applying to my highly selective dream school this November. I came up here to speak about how this important subject is for my future. I know that many students plan to shift a black if an unexpected closure happens this September. For me, however, I fear that an unmarried degree from relapse will not get me where I need to be going in my future. If I graduated from Stevens, I'd be graduating as top three in my class with multiple distinctions. So say I commit to Stevens this year and then it closes within a month on me. As I said, it is not a decision for me personally to go to Black's. My other options would be to get a GED or go to another school a like blacks. I'm afraid of GED would not fit my needs. So  the next best thing for me would be going to a neighboring high school.
NEXT> Nicole: However, this is still also detrimental to my personal future. I lose I would get an entire new rink with new students. I would lose previous officer positions in clubs

[R16776-47] John Robinson | Public commenter, Ward 2; public-school educator in a neighboring dist | 2025-08-20
PREV> Zach Greenwood: bill, you know, I'm thinking about selling my house and getting out of here because my kids education is crap and the school management seems to be crap. And I just and I guess I don't really have any questions. That's just how I do.
TEXT> Hi, my name is John Robinson. I think I'm. In. Ward two. It's a 247. Chestnut Street.  I am a  vendor, Claremont for five years. I don't think kids in the district, but I am a public school educator and work on the other side of the river, so I certainly feel,  my concern starts with the conversation from the auditor, where the information is being provided from our financial reports may be inaccurate. Looking at the last board meeting, though, there are some things I've noticed that I think are worth considering.  The Maple Avenue Elementary salaries were over budget by about $127,000. The middle school salaries were over by 117,000.  Stevens High School stipends and extended learning were overspent by double or triple their budget.  District wide. We see $50,000 in contract services charge to line that had no budget allocation at all. And these aren't minor variances. Their science and principles aren't monitoring their budgets and that the administration isn't being held accountable either. The superintendent isn't holding principals accountable, and the business administrator doesn't raise a large about these overages. When the board asks for monthly updates and doesn't get them, that is another problem of failures. I don't doubt that there are challenges to these jobs.
NEXT> John Robinson: I know what is working hard, but accountability is part of leadership. Without it, we end up where we are today without liquid cash or back at the town's door

[R16776-49] Miles Sheehan | Public commenter; rising senior, 2024-25 student board representative  | 2025-08-20
PREV> John Robinson: And a business office that raises reflect before we hit a wall. This isn't about money. It's about trust. And trust can only be rebuilt by accountability. If we can't manage the money we already have, we have no business asking for more. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. My name is Michael Sheehan. I was,  board  school board student representative  last year.  I just have one question.  As a rising senior, being uncertain in what I'm supposed to do with my life the next six months is concerning. And I just wanted to know if there's any plan that anyone has for this year's rising seniors as to what we're supposed to do. Where are we supposed to go? How are we supposed to get there? I just wanted to know if any of you had any plans or say that you're starting to put together a plan.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: Derek. The. Can I just help? I think there's a lingering question out there, obviously, regarding the delay of school, and everyone's thinking about it. So how that works is

[R16776-55] Matt Bean | Public commenter; former Claremont School District employee, current S | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: by supporting the teachers and parents who work with them day in and day out, to help move them into successful adolescents and adults. The success of our children should be the top priority, not protecting the professionally inept. Cut the fat from the top.
TEXT> Matt Beam For seven years I worked for the Claremont School District. I buried my soul for the Claremont School District. I worked with any kid they asked me to, and now  I don't work for the Claremont School District. What? I love  Claremont so much. So much. And now we're in a situation where we're wondering if we're going to have school. You've got sports teams here in there fighting for themselves. Because they don't know what they're going to have to to do their jobs. What we need to do is we need to stand together. We need to say that this is unacceptable and we need to we need to. Find people who care about Claremont as much as we do, to be in charge of the school districts. Find people who think here and all the challenges that they go through every single day. That's what we need to do, because you have to have emotional investment in order to care about a place. And I don't work here anymore. I'm happy where I am now, but I still love Claremont. I'm still a coach here. I still care about Claremont. I still wanted to succeed, and I just want leadership that cares as much as I do. Please.
NEXT> Derek Lick: So folks in the gymnasium, just. So. You know, I. Know you cannot see our line, but there is a short line at this point of speaker. So and if

[R16776-74] JP Johnson | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> JP Johnson: a little more seriously than won't be tomorrow. And that way we don't have to talk to the town or offer any answers, right? It's frustrating to see, you know, all the the forums online and people talking about how there's not enough community engagement.
TEXT> But I know as a parent with two kids who are athletes, you know, with my husband and I both work in health care. So jobs that have unreliable schedules, making it to these kinds of meetings is difficult.  So to come to this and find out that there's really no answers  we don't know of school is going to start on time. And the people who. Could hold the answers, or at least some clues,  didn't even bother to get together before them.
NEXT> Kelly: Yeah. I'm sure to. All right. My name. Is Kelly. And I don't know my ward. I'm at 66 Stewart Avenue. There you go. I came. Here last year to

[R16776-75] Kelly | Public commenter; Claremont teacher and parent (first name only, as an | 2025-08-20
PREV> JP Johnson: So to come to this and find out that there's really no answers we don't know of school is going to start on time. And the people who. Could hold the answers, or at least some clues, didn't even bother to get together before them.
TEXT> Yeah. I'm sure to. All right. My name. Is Kelly. And I don't know my ward. I'm at 66 Stewart Avenue. There you go. I came. Here last year to the district. I am not only a parent of  two boys here in the district, but I am also a teacher. And I chose to come to this district because I wanted to teach in the same district as my children. I wanted to be on the same calendar. I want to be on the same schedule. I wanted to be able to participate in their events and be closer than I was previously. I heard about some of the issues, and in my naivete, I came here because I wanted to help.  As of April 2023, when I accepted the position. The information about this dire situation was not available to the public, and had it been, I would likely have changed my decision to come here to Claremont. I have a rising eighth and a rising ninth grader. They've been in Claremont schools for four years.  I've been a teacher for 17 years, and six of those years had been in New Hampshire, and I have never been worried about getting paid or keeping my benefits for my family until I came here to Claremont. Ever.
NEXT> Kelly: Concerns is that teachers with seniority are being replaced with new teachers, with the lower salaries and less experience, and this is a detriment to our students. And I want

[R16776-87] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter; parent asking about transfers and transportation (on | 2025-08-20
PREV> Ken Lownie: statement every three days? And here's where we are now. A lawyer is not going to tell you to do that to put that out there. Oh no. Now you're liable who people will do that and your good people. So let's get more updates.
TEXT> More on that. And a good. School system here. She's going through. It's cool isn't open I'm sorry about what I'm going to do. What is my ability to look like to transfer to another school in a neighboring town? What's that transportation look like? Both her mother and I have jobs that don't allow us to easily transport her. We utilize Nima. He's here today. Thank you, coach Mike, for being here. We appreciate you. What does that look like? For his costs, he's able to transport kids within our district here, close to us. Can he extend that to other neighboring towns? I don't know, what does that look like for my cost and for other parents that utilize Nima, I also don't know that,  who is going to cover the cost of transportation, right? Me okay, maybe. Who is going to cover the cost of transfer to another school? As far as I understand, that's not a free there's cost for somebody else to go to another school and for hundreds of students to disperse, amongst other places. So I want to know, is that Claremont paying for it? We don't have money. Who's going to cover that? That was pretty much it.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Hello, my name is. I'm in Ward two. I'm married to an educator who used to work in his district, who is highly educated, in my opinion, and in the

[R16776-98] Braden Gasset | Public commenter (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-20
PREV> Derek Lick: supporting the kids. I know you're going to get through it. With that, let's turn it over. The last two speakers that after that will allow the board attorney, whoever wishes to speak. Thank you for coming out tonight and sharing your comments. Come on.
TEXT> My name is Braden Gasset, and. It's just a couple of little things. One thing that. Bothered me earlier, it was brought up that you didn't see a lot of us here before. That's because I'm at work to pay the taxes. That means for us that that's pretty right. And it sense. To me at least. And then you look out in the. Audience. There's a lot of students here. They shouldn't be here worried about whether they're going to school. They should be at home getting ready to go to school.
NEXT> Unidentified: Work for. Oh, well.

[R16776-133] James O'Shaughnessy | District Legal Counsel, Claremont School District | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified: have, we've overspent money. And what I say you is now seeming to say is, well, we're not responsible for spending the money. We're just responsible for giving you the framework that the money comes out of. Right. But, well, this is like I'll answer.
TEXT> The legal question. Because I. Tried. To explain it. It's a confusing concept.  Saw as a school administrative unit, and it's a corporation that provides superintendent services to the member districts in the sea. Right. So unity is a school district. Claremont is a school district. They both think of it as a contract with the saw. The supervise superintendent services. Yes. They use a corporation. Its board of directors are the members of the Unity and Claremont School Board. Together they make all the decisions about all of the employees in the SA. The SA has a separate budget. It's a small budget. It's operational, mostly Claremont unity. Pay a proportional share of the budget based on the number of students in the district. So I don't want to confuse things about what's in say you. Yes. A you board is the superintendent's employer. The superintendent hires and employees all of the other saw employees. So we have to go through that process to address the deployment issues regarding anyone employed by the okay. The Claremont Board has no control of or jurisdiction over those folks. Technically, all.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm saying is that it it feels a little bit like a game of find the lady right where you're sort of like, well, where's the ball? Which cup is

[R16776-151] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Sullivan District 8 (onset clipped into neigh | 2025-08-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would any of our. Our state representatives like to speak why? We're giving them an option to speak.
TEXT> Sort of short, yes. Good evening. I'm state representative Hope Damon. I live in Portland. I represent nine Townsend, Sullivan County, including Clermont, and I am deputy ranking member on the education funding committee at the House. And I get a shaky voice when I'm very concerned about a topic. So  first, a couple answers to things that have come up and in random order as I made notes, not in order of priority. No. The state statute requires districts to pay for transportation for kids who live more than two miles from the school they attend. If it's a public school up through eighth grade, it doesn't appear that that's going to be an issue. As long as school stays open, transportation won't change, but that is the statute. There is not  a state requirement that audits be done annually. The state statute says they may be done. I will be bringing legislation forward this fall to required to require an annual audit by all school districts that is submitted to the Department of Education, and I will explore with the folks who know more than I do whether there should be a consequence in that statute that you don't get money from the state if you don't file your audit in a timely manner.
NEXT> Hope Damon: I think that many people don't know that the structure of education funding in New Hampshire is that the state is less than 30% of the cost of public schools,

[R16776-154] Karen Liot Hill | Executive Councilor, NH Executive Council District 2 (ASR renders 'Kar | 2025-08-20
PREV> Hope Damon: I thank those incredible audience for being here. And 95% of the time, being very civil and respectful as we talk about really difficult stuff. And I thank the board and the staff admin for the courage it takes to be in these roles. Thanks.
TEXT> Good evening. I'm Karen Leo Hill, executive counselor, and I want to thank  the school board for the invitation to your state elected officials to be here tonight and to  offer our solidarity. I am sorry. I am sorry  for all of you that you are in this situation. I am sorry that the state of New Hampshire has failed for 35 years to adequately fund public schools in the state of New Hampshire, and that has led to the situation where you are tonight. I am sorry that generations of students in the city of Claremont have suffered at the hands of an unfair school funding situation. I have been in touch regularly, on a daily basis with the Commissioner of Education to ask hurt what ways we can support as a state what ways we can support the Claremont School District. I will continue to help in any way that I can as a liaison. I will also make sure that I share my summary of tonight's meeting with the governor's office, and to encourage her to also be involved in this matter and to assign someone to this.
NEXT> Karen Liot Hill: And if it turns out that legislation is needed, as the attorney has mentioned, or if a special session of the legislature is required, that would need to be called

[R16776-186] James O'Shaughnessy | District Legal Counsel, Claremont School District | 2025-08-20
PREV> Unidentified: We have the ability.
TEXT> And sorry. While the district is operating the school district, your resident students have an obligation to attend that school district.  There is some reassignment options. Under the law, you can demonstrate manifest educational hardship. You can attend charter schools, you can homeschool. There's education freedom accounts, like, you know, those other options. But status quo right now and for Claremont. So there are those other options in terms of sending your student to another school.  Claremont wouldn't be obligated to pay that tuition right now.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[R16786-2] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-25
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Miss Cromer, would you please call roll call tenants? Yes, it is Robert Harley Tompkins, Lauren Howard, William Madden, Greg. Sprague, Heather. William.
TEXT> Our first order of business this evening is to approve a consent agenda. There are multiple  agenda changes this evening due to the ever evolving story that our district is facing. The order of our agenda is going to  proceed as follows. Item number one is going to be the Financial Finance Update immediate recovery plan options. That's going to be with  our new controller, Matt Angel. And he's also our acting business administrator. That will be also  Jim O'Shaughnessy who is our attorney from Drummond and Woodson.  Next we're going to have  some comments made by our  student Services director, Mike McCosker, about our alternative program, The Fly Academy at Maple Avenue. Next, we will have Mr. Patrick O'Hearn from our human Resources Department speak to  our reduction in force update. That will be followed by  Michael Kosky, who will be giving us  a brief presentation on concerns related to student life, given the changes that are happening within our district. That will be followed by a presentation of Refresh by Michael Patron concerning our  community fundraising. That will be followed by public comments. And we are  blessed to have Mr. Derek Berland, who has stepped up to be our facilitator this evening.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We're greatly appreciate you standing up and doing that for us. Then we are going to move to a board vote, and then we're going to have other business and

[R16786-8] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-08-25
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: we can. Reduce as much operating expenses as we can. The next step is going to be how do we deal with that deficit down the road? So we're not back in this situation again and start over in school year. That's all I have.
TEXT> Good evening. Both Michael, the  director of student Support, and I'm going to talk briefly about the Academy. For the fight that we and the purpose of that program has been helped bring students back from out of district placement to make sure students who might struggle within this kind of  setting to have somewhere they can go where we're not looking at sending them out of this or, So my team in and myself, we have been looking at bringing students back this year. At this point, we are looking at ten students that we have brought back or will be bringing back, and it will be a cost savings of a  $1.2 million. There are I do want to mention there are several students who are getting out of district placement that we have no ability to do anything about, who are legal issues. Some of them are DC  involved  in. There's some legal issues that we just can't bring them back, but we are trying to bring back every student that we can. And  there are two more that may be in play. They stay with another 200 or so thousand dollars. So, that the long and short of the Fly Academy.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: There there are some expenses that go with that. You know, staffing is about 200,000 or a little bit more than that. My numbers, quick numbers were right. But, you

[R16786-11] Patrick O'Hearn | Human Resources Director, SAU 6 | 2025-08-25
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: level of student learning and extracurricular opportunities, possible during this difficult time. So a broad overview of what positions are being considered are a group of maintenance positions, including custodians at bluff. Seems, designer Maple and Stevens High, as well as the Tech center secretaries.
TEXT> This includes school year secretaries of business  Maple and Stevens. And this includes year round Secretary  at CMS and a medicaid specialist also being considered for some positions, such as art co-ordinator at the High Assistant Chef,  the Tech Center Behavior Interventionist at Bluff, our Community Attendance officer, a Coda, a program assistant at Stevens High, the student discipline coordinator at Stevens High, students support staff at business, and a study of Hall monitor at Stevens High School. A broad summary of the estimated savings with these positions, which are essentially a second tier, maintenance. Total potential savings $383,791. Secretaries $451,642. Paraprofessionals 55,322 and all other positions including the program assistants, community tenants, officers, and behavioral interventionists, totaling 463,930. All of these come to total potential savings of $1,252,646. I also want to emphasize,  while these cuts would be felt extremely deeply across our schools, they were chosen to protect our legal obligations, mandated positions, and to ensure we keep the district's financial recovery on track. I want to emphasize that the board and the ministration we are committed to transparency, open communication and finding every pathway forward to protect opportunities for students while still meeting our financial responsibilities.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Good evening. My name is Michael. We have been. Meeting with principals and assistant principals and administrators to try and tease out. These. Cuts to have, as said earlier, the

[R16786-13] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-08-25
PREV> Mike Koski: been willing to work over the weekend. We've been changing schedules. People have been working for free, giving up their time and evenings. And it is all coming into place so that school can begin on time. We still have all of our program materials.
TEXT> Our curriculum is still the same. Students will have textbooks. Students will have workbooks. Students will learn in their classrooms with their teachers on a negative impact. Some class sizes will be larger. Some classrooms will have to mix grades. This is something we've had to do in the past. It's not new to our staff. They know how to manage the situation and they will continue in this year to do the same. Finally, I just I would like to say thank you to everybody who's been working on this issue for the past two weeks. Because the amount of work needed to try to get here to the first day of school has been incredible. And it's been  a very unpleasant experience to think of staff that we won't be working with. I apologize for that. Dispatch said nobody's taking any joy in this process, but we are  bearing it up and doing what we can so that the students will get the best educational experience that they can. So again, just to repeat, we'll begin on time. Students will be in classrooms. Teachers will be in classrooms, and curricula  and programs remain the same.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yes. Good evening. I've been asked. To help or kind of oversee in any way I can, fundraising efforts that are going to be going on in the district. It's

[R16786-16] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-25
PREV> Michael Petrin: out to other music arts, and other people looking out for eight and do what I can to help get the fundraising going and making sure that we're meeting all the needs of the kids. So, you know, we don't need anybody out. So, Any.
TEXT> I just have to say that  I spend a lot of time on the phone this weekend talking with folks that are energized and committed to the fundraising process and universally across the board. There was the understanding of belief that every program is important. We're not elevating football over Jamma or music under anything else. And every every individual that I spoke with that was advocating for athletics instantly, you know, came around and saw immediately that every kid that benefits from these extracurricular activities, it keeps them in the schools. It's vitally important. And throughout the community, and even when  Mr. Angel and I went to the  bank this morning, I  just want to say a great thank you  to Claremont Savings Bank.  They were literally champing at the bit. Help us. The members that met with us were Jim Lynch, Gary, Terry Decker and David many. And every single person was like, what can we do to help? What CEO can I call? How  how  can we help? So that has been universally  response that I've received. And in my heart I was gone through like the stages of grief on the sport. I think with the community, because we are Claremont, every single person on this,  on the debt service table. We're taxpayers. We love this city.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We joined the board because we wanted to make the city better. We wanted to elevate education. We've we've, do some really hard things that include people that we know,

[R16786-44] Brad Bowen | Public commenter, Ward 3 (name as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: effort because I'm worried that I'm not going to have a degree from here. And I also really, really scared that I'm not going to be able to play here when I have committed to college for it. And I'm counting on this year. So.
TEXT> I'm Brad Bowen from Ward three, and that that was really hard to do. I'm sure you get pretty nervous speaking in public, especially in front of so. That was one of the priority that's being out. I see that is is it really the priority that I'm seeing from everything that you're saying? And wait to get online and from your budget is that the teachers and the administration are your priority to look at. But the priority for the district is the students, and they've got to be first in every conversation. The sports program would be terrible lose. But then you also said schools are going to be filled because you weren't going to have a maintenance. The fields won't be cut. You already know go outside and not as the school board. You're not necessarily responsible for all of this. It you didn't catch it in time, but it appears that you knew at the beginning of the summer, in the very least, and you couldn't give us more time to do some fundraisers or at least understand your position instead of it happening three days before the start. Now, I know from personal experience that I've gone in to Mr. Blunt, specifically the administration, and I volunteered my own time and money to fix the playground and and.
NEXT> Brad Bowen: And I was rejected. And I brought that attention to two superintendents. Still, I was rejected. So I don't necessarily see how if you're turning money away, that now your

[R16786-47] Rachel Malcolm | Public commenter (name as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Rachel Malcolm: to insure to us and show us transparently that that's where that money is going to go? Can you assure us at this time that the school is going to say open for the entire year? If so, how? From these cuts? That's my question.
TEXT> How  did these nine teachers, then teen teachers, rather get Trump contracted to the school, potentially without the school board's approval? This is what I'm hearing. Please correct me if I am wrong. If that is that that is correct that they were contracted to work for the school and subsequently fired, laid off, whatever you want to call it, without the school board's approval. Who approved that? I want to know. And also,  how can we trust everybody here that has not approved that or approved it? If the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing? Last question what will the teacher to student ratio be? Do we have that answer? Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Cogswell: Hi everyone. Chris Cogswell from Ward three. So the big question still hanging out there in my opinion, is what is the nature of the budgetary shortfall. It sounds like

[R16786-53] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - parent of a Stevens High student; als | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: that we get that information out. And the last question that I will ask is, are these funds going into student activity accounts so that we can account that they go through the correct item, or are they going into the general fund? Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. But it is sharing a  new word to I come here as I imagine others are tonight still making a decision about whether my child will be attending Stephen's or whatever school starting on Friday. And there are certain information that I've been waiting for to help me make a decision.  And as I mentioned at last week's meeting, down to the details. And forgive me if this is a high school administration question, but if my son comes to school for anything short of a quarter  or a semester because of a decision that the school board makes about a financial need for closing, will my high school student get any measure of credit for the time that he puts in? Because at the high school level,  we are measuring every credit toward graduation.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I would like someone within the school district who is responsible to be able to answer that at some point. Going back to a couple of meetings ago, I

[R16786-56] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - merged cluster; responds  | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: to have a full time job to manage the $500,000 that you say we need, so please find a way to rely on the people who are experienced fundraisers so that we can help you to achieve what we're asking you to do. Thank you.
TEXT> To address your question about credits, then conversations with the high school administration, all the plans they're making are to assign credits for  semester quarter classes. And so all those decisions are considering the credits that students would earn. Does that answer your question? I believe we could. We can.  We don't anticipate that happening. But if it does, we will pro rate or, you know, assign those credit. There was another question about  arts and music classes. Those classes are being treated as every other classes being treated.
NEXT> John McCoy: Hello, my name is John McCoy. I live off of the mess that is North Street right now. I wanted to know what's going to go on with special education

[R16786-59] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - rising junior student) | 2025-08-25
PREV> John McCoy: need a plan of what parent education is going to look like. What is special education going to look like? School opens in two days, allegedly. So what does that going to look like for the kids that are being underrepresented right now? Thank you.
TEXT> Rising junior year round, I'd just like to share some of my thoughts about the situation that made me speak for others. It can't hurt them. I can show my appreciation to everybody who is fighting each student's athletics alive, as well as any other extra curricular. I believe that the athletic department has a huge impact on our school as a whole, and brings us together as a community, and seeing it at risk of being shut down has killed hundreds of other athletes, parents, coaches and myself. I do not believe that it would be beneficial in any way if athletics were to be shut down for any reason, and I know I'm not the only person who thinks this way. If extracurriculars were to be shut down, it would have a huge impact on our community for the worse. And not to mention the amount of athletics scholarships it could potentially put in jeopardy, as well as any rising seniors who are planning on going to college for athletics, Arts, music. What does this mean for them? I know myself this has become a home. I've grown into a family with teens and again, I know about the only person thinks this way. But to know that all these opportunities, relationships and safe places are being jeopardized and potentially taken away from us is incredibly unfair and truly devastating. And it's sorry. Thank you.
NEXT> John Eaton: Blue. My name is John Eaton, 42. I just have a few things I tried. So sorry. And according to Claremont, January of 26, that building was purchased for $255,000.

[R16786-70] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - one of the two students announced as  | 2025-08-25
PREV> Multiple: and we built the attend school here. We are going to be rising juniors. And, so we were wondering how, like, where did all that money, like, go? Like, you don't just, like, randomly misplaced, like $5 million. Like, it just doesn't really make sense.
TEXT> Also, why. Are we putting sports and everything else and us being punished for your guys's  misuse of the money, for the money that's being spent elsewhere. And we're the ones getting punished and used for it, and we don't have anything to say.  We're just going to cut from us, and we can do nothing about it. Hello? Raven out for three. You're up here to punch in numbers of all kinds. Why don't we look at how many kids we've got in the elementary schools? Between the three of them is what, 700 kids like. If we consolidate that into two schools instead of three, is it cost less money to maintain two? Maintain three. Hey, everybody, out of that. They've sold three schools in play, Mark. And now one of the two of them are schools now because they couldn't be. And the other one is a conference. So what would that cost to do that? And the other thing that I had, you people, if they do a great job, I think because you're doing it, the pain is horrible. Anyway, anybody that wants  to resign ought to take the money you get. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: I didn't want to impress the consolidation topic. When I know I spoke to the administrators, we would like, as an administrative team to bring something together about consolidation. So

[R16786-75] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - rising senior at Stevens High; field  | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: I too am scared for the future. I have so much going for me here at Stevens. I'm on the field hockey team. I work for CCTV, I'm involved in music, and I run the student newspaper, which I put my heart soul into creating.
TEXT> I also transferred to Stevens last year, and I really do not want to go to a third high school. That being said, I think it is important to acknowledge the root of this issue and understand that this is a complicated problem with a just as complicated solution. When we talk about this issue, we must understand that the students and taxpayers of Claremont were fit, but not by the school board. We were failed by SR six management and the state of New Hampshire. The people sitting before us on this board are not in charge of the district's finances. The only financial decision that they make is voting on the budget. The rest is out of their control. They are the people cleaning up the mess made by the state and members of the school district that control finances. The behavior that I saw at the last meeting, I know  is not a reflection of the people in Claremont. I understand your anger and your frustration as I feel the same way, but I also know that this issue is an incredibly complex one, and it's not going to be fixed by us yelling at each other. I would also like to remind everybody of the fact that the state of New Hampshire continuously refuses to provide New Hampshire schools with proper resources and funding to make sure everybody can have an adequate education.
NEXT> Unidentified: The state is not care about whether or not your children get the education that they deserve. I want to give my $0.02 on an issue as a student with

[R16786-76] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - rising senior at Stevens High; field  | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: be fixed by us yelling at each other. I would also like to remind everybody of the fact that the state of New Hampshire continuously refuses to provide New Hampshire schools with proper resources and funding to make sure everybody can have an adequate education.
TEXT> The state is not care about whether or not your children get the education that they deserve. I want to give my $0.02 on an issue as a student with a unique perspective, and I wanted to remind you all  to look into the issues and research them before placing  blame. I know that this community has overcome complex issues in the past and we can do it again. I would also like to point out that at the last meeting I did want to say something, but Stevens High School athletes were told we weren't allowed to. I think that this is incredibly unfair, as this is an issue that  could very well  affect us for the rest of our lives. I do enjoy field hockey, and I don't think that this is necessarily anyone's fault, but  and I didn't want to risk my spot on the team by saying this, but I do think that it is incredibly unfair. My final question comes from another member of the field hockey team, and that is, if Claremont were to lose its accreditation, would the students know beforehand and how  will we prepare for this as a district? Thank you all for your time.
NEXT> Derek Ferland: So just to confirm, we did, the folks that are on the line will be the last speakers for the night. It will take us a little over an hour,

[R16786-84] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1 (teacher, parent, former SAU office employee) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> What? Okay. A model for the place. I was not planning on speaking tonight, so. I dressed up. You're welcome. So thank you for your service. I know a lot of you. I don't envy you at all. And, most of you know, I did work at the office. Yes, I did. Okay, so I'm a teacher here.  I'm a former CEO. I'm a parent. I have two kids in the district. I'm a coach on the PTO. Well,  was the president  was still there.  We're going to support our teachers. Absolutely. We have some funds.  My childhood band. Okay, so that's enough about me.  I'm not going to repeat what everyone has already said because it's kind of silly. I do have a clarifying question before I just kind of go off, and I ask that their final question about the Medicaid cut, anybody? Anybody. Okay, fine. Here we go. So if you're going to cut the Medicaid plaque. Okay. That position is at the essay office. So everybody that's saying they're not cutting jobs at the essay office is wrong. Okay. So that Medicaid clerk,  that position brings in funds for the school district every year of about 500 zero zero $0.
NEXT> Leslie Peabody: So if you're planning on cutting that position, who is going to do that job? It's a very important job. And if I'm wrong, please tell me. So I just

[R16786-85] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1 (teacher, parent, former SAU office employee) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Leslie Peabody: plaque. Okay. That position is at the essay office. So everybody that's saying they're not cutting jobs at the essay office is wrong. Okay. So that Medicaid clerk, that position brings in funds for the school district every year of about 500 zero zero $0.
TEXT> So  if you're planning on cutting that position, who is going to do that job? It's a very important job. And if I'm wrong, please tell me. So I just stopped talking about that, but I just putting that on. Am I wrong?  Okay. I just want to know how you're going to close that gap, okay? Cause that's significant. That's a very important job.  Okay.  Now that's,  as a taxpayer, I said I'm all over the place. So as a taxpayer, there seems to be an ongoing problem in Claremont  that exacerbates the issue of budget management every single year. Okay. We need to start hiring competent people in leadership positions and stop firing them with a hefty severance when they make one mistake or disagree with someone. We're playing leapfrog every year, and I think that this is part of why we're in the. Industries burdened on the city as a whole. And again, why I'm saying I don't envy you. Okay. So another question about flying. Why don't, so is fly at the new building or is it in the tech center? I wasn't I wasn't clear on that either. It was a little bit confused on it. So do you actually have to support those ten kids coming back from out of district?
NEXT> Leslie Peabody: Because I know that that is a heavy burden. So we want to make sure you have the staff for that. And what's plan B if it doesn't work out?

[R16786-87] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - teacher in a neighboring district; pa | 2025-08-25
PREV> Leslie Peabody: going to be okay. So parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, friends, whatever. Step up. We're going to be okay. We're going to get through this. You have games this week. It's going to happen. We've got this. It'll be all right. Right in the neighboring district.
TEXT> And I feel for the remaining teachers. Teachers are to go above and beyond what we what we are paying for. I already have 14 of my own hours and hundreds of my own dollars put into my classroom set up, and I would assume it's similar here. I cannot fathom being told to pack it all up and try to find a new job. As school years are already underway, I  leave lose faith in my profession, and I hope that the teachers who are let go, as well as the teachers who are now at a risk of greater and more severe burnout, don't lose your teachers park. Please don't forget to take care of yourselves, being close contact with your union representatives and love your students as you always do. I also was able to serve as a previous district as a member of their school board, and I don't envy the situation for you all at all. I encourage more people in the community to run for school board and to attend or watch all of our regular meetings be on this issue. It is my understanding that athletics will be cut unless we raise a half $1 million.
NEXT> Unidentified: So should my partner, who works in athletics at Stevens, wait around until we raise that money or apply for other jobs. I know you're not supposed to discuss specific

[R16786-92] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified - SRVRTC alumnus, second time at the mi | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: classes. These programs are not cheap to run materials, equipment, the building and the support staff. I'm standing here as a return on those investments from 20 years ago. This portfolio, full of licensing and certifications is a return on that best 20 years ago.
TEXT> I can name you another dozen students around  in my class, and around that are working in the industry from those programs that are, higher up that large companies, both local and far. And they have,  now high demand, high paying jobs because of those programs. You said that those classes will happen, but the budgets for these programs, which have already been abysmal for decades. And if you're cutting those funds for those programs where they can't even adequately run a successful program, the materials to train the students, then you might as well sell the equipment, sell the building, which I feel like been a goal for years in this district. Thank you. Ward three again.
NEXT> Cameron: It was a couple of things that I just wanted to throw out there. Finish up here. Out of 81 districts in New Hampshire, permanent rates for the city. Our

[R16786-98] Christina Bernard | Public commenter (name as announced; not on public roster; special edu | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: a fixed. And the state has kept saying no, and now you're on your own. Cheers. Who we sent to Concord. I hope you'll remember tonight. And remember who's fighting to try to fix this system. And who left Claremont kept blowing in the wind.
TEXT> He's Christina Bernard, more than one. I am a special education teacher who is keeping kids from coming out of this fight. And I a parent. I have a couple questions. One is, I know that we contract a different company to hire in paras for  one on ones, but we're firing random people. But we're not just letting go of that company, because you cannot tell me that you have hired a company to find staff for us and take that company seeing them $20 an hour. You can't tell me that you are paying them $20 an hour. That company. That company has to make money somehow. So why are we not letting go of bad company and hiring those people or not firing these people? My other question is how much money do we have to come up with? Because you let go of 19 teachers, that's 1.8 million. You let go of sports. That's half a million, right? There's almost $3 million. What more do we need? How much more money do we need? You also planted a whole lot of other teachers staff.  That's got to be more money.  How much more do we need to suffer?  How much more do we need? Oh, wait. How much more do we need? Do we not know? Is it 5 million? Is it more than what?
NEXT> Matt Angell: Home with the county records. There's no beginning balance in there. You can't reconcile it to the bank statement. I can't tell you. Looking at the records with what it

[R16786-103] Doug Beaupre | Athletic Director, Stevens High School | 2025-08-25
PREV> Matt Angell: in his budget certain dollar amount to run his programs. He he has an approximation of how much money he spends by, by team. Okay. I unfortunately don't have those records here. I'm hoping that you can probably answer off the top of the city.
TEXT> So,  I  am confident that we will be able to start. We have money in our account for officials.  So we can certainly start the season. I built. I'm not ready to say that we would be able to finish without the fundraising to help us out, but we can certainly start the season and get through a month, month and a half. And hopefully that fundraising that we've been all about being able to start kicking in, and we'll be able to finish out the school year with those, with those funds. But I, I'm confident that we'll be able to start.  We will be. Depending on the vote here tonight. We will be putting out transportation waivers because one of the cuts was going to be transportation. So we are going to have to rely on a number of parents,  to help drive not only your child, but teammates. And we have to have all that  signed off before we are able to start playing. I've been contact with most of the coaches, so they are aware of depending again on how this misspoke goes tonight, that that's going to be kind of the new norm or for at least policy. How about the statements? I don't have that number in front of me right now. We do not have  the money for the coaches stipends, but those are paid out at the end of the season.
NEXT> Doug Beaupre: And again, I'm I'm hoping that with the with the fundraising that would that will will be able to raise enough for the rest of the year for coaches say

[R16786-109] Doug Beaupre | Athletic Director, Stevens High School | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: like that, is that they're not going to pit sport against sport, team against teams. Correct. It's been my understanding that it's an all or nothing proposition. But what you're saying right now is we can likely get through fall, worry about winter and spring.
TEXT> When winter and spring time, everybody's going to have to pitch in. I'm optimistic that we are going to be able to come up with the bare minimum,  before the end of the fall season. And guarantee it. But I am confident. I mean, we've got a lot of coaches working on this. We have a lot of community members working on this. We want of kids working on this. So I am I am confident that we can, that we will be able to to fund athletics. It sucks. It's not ideal, but it's it is what it is. And,  I think that, you know, we've had conversations with people from around the state as well, and other schools are,  are looking to help out in any way they can. The athletic community is a pretty close knit community. And, there is help, but it's going to be an awful lot of work.
NEXT> Unidentified: They deal with money.

[R16786-120] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (speaks to her motion) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: What everybody else.
TEXT> This is the only way we can open up our schools. From our income on kindergarten children to our raising, our rising seniors who are concerned with valid reasons about their credits, about how they're going to complete their education and get their diplomas. This is not easy for any of us.
NEXT> Unidentified: But you have been unacceptable and clear that you. Don't have all the information. You shouldn't be making a choice. If you don't have the information. You can't change. The

[R16786-143] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-08-25
PREV> Unidentified: They walk. In here.
TEXT> Is there any further discussion from the board? I  just would like to clarify with Mr. Markowski that our special education students will have their eyepiece in place, as required by statute.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: That is correct.

[R16786-152] Unidentified | Audience member (interjection from the floor; not at podium) | 2025-08-25
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do I have a second? Michael. Patron. Second motion. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion on paper. Raise your hand to a.
TEXT> Students when you do it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I think there's a chance to fundraise for.

[R16813-23] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-09-03
PREV> James O'Shaughnessy: of the staff in the district. I'm going to pass the microphone over to Matt, talk about the finances that work. Good evening. In March, Plaza Anderson presented the fiscal year 220 the audit auditor recommended and board liaison appointed to ensure audits move forward.
TEXT> In April, Mary Henry informed the board that  informed the board the district had a 1.5 million deficit due to an anticipated special education expenses. Henry advised that a spending three's was implemented and there was no need for panic. The independent auditor's report for fiscal year 20 and March and fiscal year 21, in May identified a deficit of roughly $2 million. The fiscal year 20 that found rather a small surplus in in May. The board took action by withdrawing $888,998.42 from trust funds to offset presented overages in fiscal year 25. In August, after a preliminary verbal report from the district's auditors, the board announced that spacing a budget deficit of between 1 million and 5 million for the 2020 425 school year. The board has not made fully aware of the board yet, made fully where the magnitude of the outstanding invoices or cash flow situation. I have discovered approximately $5 million in outstanding overdue invoices and liabilities. Payments have not been entered or reconciled correctly in the accounting system. For this reason,  it will take several more weeks for me. It's a disaster. Wow. The vendors we owe include, but are not limited to employee  health insurance, food service for students, and the New Hampshire Retirement for staff.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: Can I just jump in here? Yeah, I think we've already we've already presented that there's two issues. There's the deficit and then there's the outstanding liabilities. Right. So this

[R16813-69] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
TEXT> So moving forward, we've already talked about the audits before,  but as far as accountability,  we're going to ensure that these audits are  completed. And we're also requesting an independent operations review to  help us navigate this crisis and to establish what our most practical corrective actions are in regards to accountability at the office building and policies and procedures and, maintaining that kind of level of accountability. We are also been in the process and will move forward with requesting assistance from law enforcement to complete,  an investigation. Look, look at this. We welcome as a board,  the scrutiny.  We're requesting the scrutiny.  I personally put a request in as a private citizen and a taxpayer,  as somebody who is being affected by this as everyone else in this room. And I'm angry about it as well.  Or also requesting some help, as was previously mentioned from,  a special education consultant, to see how we can   be most efficient with our special education services, making sure that kids get exactly what they need in the most efficient way possible. And  we're also talking in a very conceptual way, but in a very progressive way about,  how we're going to manage the long term  debt management and deficit management.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And we really need to do that by continuing to reduce the operating budget for this year and further reduce the operating budget to, to avoid burdening taxpayers. Like we

[R16813-72] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (HR Director) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: a sustainable financial plan and to make sure that best practices and internal controls are in place. And, We've had Mr. O'Hearn is prepared to speak a little bit more about the potential school school consolidation plans that are kind of in a nascent phase.
TEXT> So in the spirit of transparency, I just want to be clear with the public. So all things are on the table,  to reduce the next year's operating budget, to manage our  current financial state of distress. And we are just now starting that conversation of consolidation of schools. What does it look like currently is in conversations with Mr. and Angel,  and a superintendent consultant. He just identified looking at numbers. This is napkin math essentially. Oh, you have this many schools. You have three elementary schools, you have a middle school, you have a high school. We're looking at student sizes. So that's where we are currently. So they just want to put the cart before the horse. And when I want to emphasize the a lot of the work this year in our budget process is really going to be asking a real honest needs assessment. Right. So we're to be identifying is this position,  do we need it to comply with that 306 for legal reasons, for safety reasons. And there's going to be a real,  real effort in, in and substantiating the need for every position. So I just want to clarify where we're at.  For, for planning for this year, next year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: To piggyback a little bit on that, there's also some concerns about the way we are spreading our staff very thin, because we have the three elementary schools and there's

[R16813-73] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: comply with that 306 for legal reasons, for safety reasons. And there's going to be a real, real effort in, in and substantiating the need for every position. So I just want to clarify where we're at. For, for planning for this year, next year.
TEXT> To piggyback a little bit on that, there's also some concerns  about the way we are spreading our staff very thin, because we have the three elementary schools and there's a lot of inequity in class sizes. And so,  this also will address some of the educational need aspects.  For instance, if we were able to consolidate and we maintained for a period of time the staff numbers that we have, we could have  even classroom sizes, and we could also have additional teachers that would not be in a classroom because our classroom numbers, the number of classrooms that we would have for elementary school kids would be reduced. Those additional teachers could provide push and services for kids that are on that cusp of going into special education needs. So it's really an opportunity to do things that we were trying to do with,  all other ways like  and structural coaches and increasing tier one kind of  teaching skills. And so it's it's quite frankly, an opportunity to push in more services in a concentrated way to elementary school students in particular, without increasing the budget.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The final slide here is just reiterating what the state of us that and we've spoken about this numerous times, but for folks who are new to this process or

[R16813-74] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: to do with, all other ways like and structural coaches and increasing tier one kind of teaching skills. And so it's it's quite frankly, an opportunity to push in more services in a concentrated way to elementary school students in particular, without increasing the budget.
TEXT> The final slide here is just reiterating what the state of us that and we've spoken about this numerous times, but for folks who are  new to this process or haven't watched any of the meetings. The district has very limited options to help us out of this situation. And we said before that the Calvary is in coming, and we have completely internalized that. And we're prepared as a board and an administration to stand by the community and put the time and the work in and do everything we need to do to keep our schools open and to protect the tax rate. We understand that this is a people in this room. And,  it's it's it goes beyond the students and impacts families and people and, and mortgages. And we're committed as a group to do everything in our power to  manage that and to keep that, not being not impacting the folks that are in the seats here. And there are some certain options that would  Mr. O'Shaughnessy spoke to a group of  he's not he's going to take the mic.
NEXT> James O'Shaughnessy: All right. So yesterday I had a meeting with representatives from the governor's office in the morning, and, and meeting in the afternoon, I guess it was a public hearing

[R16813-94] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-09-03
PREV> Mark Chamberlain: know an accounting firm because I have I have an MBA, I understand accounting, so I want to hear it in layman's terms. How does that process going to work? I also want to hear what are the accounting entries? How's it going to work?
TEXT> Hey, I wasn't aware that they made a request for athletic piece, but but athletic feat. I'm sorry. The refs operate a little differently than what you're used to. What happens is, is there's a there's a bank account at the high school that the athletic director draws  from to pay their reps. Okay. So what's going to happen there is, is if they make a if they're going to make a request, they're going to make a formal request to you for a certain dollar amount to the into from the association to pay into that fund. Okay. It's not it's it's part of the the student activity funds. Okay. It's not part of the general fund. It doesn't affect the tax rate. Right. It's specifically segregated for that purpose. Okay. Now,  the way that it gets reported on the general ledger is it would end up being a revenue, which is the donation revenue, and then an offsetting  expenditure. Okay. All right. And there's an accounting rule. It's called Gadsby 24. That makes me  have to report it. Okay.
NEXT> Mark Chamberlain: So again repeat the first part. I just wanna make sure I understand that. So there's a fund right now that exists in the superintendent's office or the school school

[R16813-157] Candace Crawford | School Board Member, Claremont School Board (sentence continuation) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Miles Sheehan: from here this year. The tools and the open all the way through. Can we say that? We will. Yeah. We confidently say that we will be open all the way through the school year, even because it just wasn't like a thing last week.
TEXT> I can't. Comment about the. The. Dollars about that. I would. Like to go back to the state. Test piece.  It it made him. May. Well be to the high school students. Meaningless.  But it is the only measure the. State uses to measure our school district. And when we score below the average of the state that  gets published, and that gets seen by colleges and gets seen around the state, and it affects property values. So I. Would encourage you to go back and tell you classmates to try hard on those tests. Principal Harrington, you know, I know, please do.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I guess I'm sorry to interrupt. And just by the way, Lily Miles are fantastic students. I just want to thank them for being here. Yeah. Not a reflection on

[R16813-181] Chris Cogswell | Public commenter (Ward 3) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Chris Cogswell: who have failed this community. And I think the clear question here really is what teeth does the school board have? We've heard a lot here about ways to protect the administrators of Sussex, to ensure that their rights are protected, and that is important.
TEXT> But what about our rights? You cannot tell me that we as a community, as a citizenry, can do nothing. Once we hire an administrator to work in our schools to remove those who have failed or who are not doing a good job, what rises to gross negligence? Is it $1 million of delayed or lost grants? Is it a generation of kids who can't play sports through their schools? Is it a $5 million budgetary hole hidden from our elected officials and the taxpayers for years? I bristle when I hear that they're protected due to things like, you know, teachers unions or things like that. I think that that bringing that up as an example is ludicrous and frankly, offensive to the taxpayers of Claremont saying that, you know, well, we can't fire a bunch of teachers. No one wants you to fire teachers. That's not what we're asking you to do. We're asking you to hold the administrators to a failed accountable. How are we hiring the people leading these programs? There are very smart people in Claremont, wonderful teachers, principals, business leaders, accountants and others. Why are we hiring outside consultants and others to come in and fix this?
NEXT> Chris Cogswell: Has that worked in the past, especially if we cannot seem to fire them once they are hired? How do we make sure that this doesn't happen to another school

[R16813-212] Noel | Public commenter (Stevens HS student; self-identified 'Noel'; surname  | 2025-09-03
PREV> Rachel Malcolm: and just I would suggest that that be a change that happens. Again the 59th page paper that was sent, I understand you said last night that that was not submitted to the board. So that again, how was that not brought up? Thank you.
TEXT> Okay.  My name is Noel. I and I just have a few things to say today. I wanted. To start off by, talking about  standardized testing because a couple of the things earlier that were said were not correct. And,  the journalists in me can't stand that. So  I just wanted to be very clear that,  according to the Every Student Succeeds Act or for those of you who like acronyms, s a, which is a federal statute, public schools are required to administer standardized tests. And the scores we receive on those tests to determine the amount of federal funding that we receive. Failing to meet those requirements means that we lose funding.  I think it's around like approximately 8%. So  I do try on those tests and, thank you matter. And one member said, I'm so sorry I forgot your name. But these tests to affect our property values, which in turn affect the taxes you pay and district offerings. I'm also working on gathering everything I need to start my application in Dartmouth. And they do look at the prestige of the school that you attend. So  it is necessary, even if we all don't enjoy it. And I also just have a couple of questions for the board. And I'm going to need you to explain this to me like I'm five, because I just really want to make sure that I'm understanding.
NEXT> Noel: So my first question is, how are we paying back the loan from Claremont Savings Bank? And my second question is for Mr. Angel. And I was just wondering if

[R16813-220] Hope Damon | NH State Representative (Claremont) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Adequacy of. Its accuracy. Okay. There's a couple of we do together. Trust.
TEXT> Good evening, state Representative Pope Damon. I live in Claremont, so I do represent Claremont. Do I? Permission to speak briefly. Thank you. I just wanted to provide a little background, following up on Aaron's comments in regards to adequacy aid and other comments. Currently, the state adequacy grant per student is $4,100 per year. That's base grant. There is additional what's called differentiated aid, which are particular amounts for special education or students who qualify for free, and reduced lunch, which is used as a marker of lower economic status, usually accompanies greater learning needs. And for English language learners, the amounts in the differentiated for special education don't come close to covering on special education costs. In the court cases that were mentioned and they go back decades of the recent ones this summer. The Campbell case ruling came out on July 2nd, the day after the state budget, with the adequacy aid that I just identified became active for two years. And in the  case, the court ruled that the least amount of education adequacy aid the state should be paying to meet our constitutional obligation to provide an adequate education. The 700, $7,132 and in the ranch pace, which came out three weeks ago, sometime in August, they ruled against the state again, saying that the differentiated eight amounts are also not adequate.
NEXT> Hope Damon: So Claremont and many other communities throughout the state pay heavily in property taxes to fund our public schools because we don't have a fair and equitable state education funding

[R16813-221] Hope Damon | NH State Representative (Claremont) | 2025-09-03
PREV> Hope Damon: be paying to meet our constitutional obligation to provide an adequate education. The 700, $7,132 and in the ranch pace, which came out three weeks ago, sometime in August, they ruled against the state again, saying that the differentiated eight amounts are also not adequate.
TEXT> So Claremont and many other communities throughout the state pay heavily in property taxes to fund our public schools because we don't have a fair and equitable state education funding system. If your house if you are fortunate enough to have a house in Claremont at whatever value, if you move that house or have an identical house in Concord or Bo or Hanover or Portsmouth, etc., you will pay less taxes and your students will have more dollars for education from the community, because those communities have a large property tax base and we don't. So we have to have the legislature address the education funding adequately. And there have been many efforts to do that. I sit on the House Education Funding Committee committee with some wonderful colleagues, and also with some colleagues who do not want to improve those. So the remark that the very first speaker tonight said that it matters who you elect matters a whole lot, who you elect. If you want your property taxes to be controlled, you need people in Concord who want to address education funding. Fairly happy to answer questions subsequently, but I wanted to share those numbers.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16813-267] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member, Claremont School Board; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy | 2025-09-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: to the policies, you will see three procedures under those federal grant funds. We're looking to see what areas do we need to include procedures so that anybody coming in after us knows it should be done, understands the rationale and what the steps are.
TEXT> The next section is support services. That reads for itself, the data governance and security is always evolving as time goes by. Section G we've done eight updates in personnel. Going to the next page we have four updates and instruction. We're also looking at some additional ones there for special education.  Section J of students. Students absences behaviors and student  section K is the school community. And that was referenced tonight under public and donations. In the wellness policy. You'll notice that that's there under section JJLCF which we just did in this afternoon. The policy subcommittee met with  40 our school social department, district social worker, and she sat with us and provided updates to policies and practices that she has in place. And we included procedures in that wellness policy as well. It's a very ongoing process moving forward. Our goals are to get all 88 priority policies from New Hampshire RSA into the Claremont Policy. We have currently adopted 48. We use the New Hampshire School Board Association Sample Policy manual. They have two attorneys who work to keep these following the RSA. Today's meeting we have 15 policies on the agenda for us. We did not get to 15.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: We did get through eight. And we talked about three policies with me. So we have various staff and administrators who we ask our input. They very often come to

[R16813-273] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member, Claremont School Board | 2025-09-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: payroll clerk had the the ability to just go straight across the board. So you know that when I first brought this subject up at the last meeting and Mr. Pratt was still the superintendent, I got shut down pretty quickly, couldn't ask the questions.
TEXT> I'm not giving you that information. So I knew I must be onto something if I got shut down that hard. Not quickly. But I  had made a mistake in my lean, pointed that out to me. Last time the building wasn't shut down. It was shut down for the public. Okay, so I started asking questions about that. I'm thinking, who from the public wants to go into the  building? The first two weeks of Dubai. So I was I was told that it could be  anywhere from 0 to 4 people a day. And I asked who was going in there. And I said, well, maybe, teachers that have problems with their checks. Okay. Well, in my mind, employees are not in public, so I just take a face value. And I said, all right. Who else? Well, some parents that are moving into the area may be looking for how you process and get children registered in the school district. And I just thought I was thinking, I know I was one of the most diligent parents in the school district, and I would never think of just walking into the Dow building the first two weeks of July.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So everything sounds very funny. What I was hoping to do tonight was get permission from the board and the administration, and to go into a deeper dive and really

[R16831-6] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: that it is currently affecting our staff around and our ability to plan confidently. So right now, teaching and learning supports, are in fact affected by these staffing storages, but they are, mitigated due to the extraordinary efforts of our principles, teachers and support staff.
TEXT> And through this, the impact is largely stayed out of the classroom, allowing students to continue learning with minimal disruption.  Just this this week, I was in Maple. And when you get into the buildings, you,  see a lot more sense of calm and normalcy when you actually look at the classrooms. But that said, staffing concerns are one of the major reasons we are bringing forward the consolidation proposal. Later in this meeting,  our goal today is to provide some clarity and stability for staff,  reduce the pressure of trying to operate these three separate elementary schools under these very tight constraints, and hopefully create a structure that makes us,  you know, more effectively use our  resources we have. And those are limited resources currently. I do want to emphasize wearing my HR director hat. That  part commitment right now.  And will always be to retain as many staff as possible and to provide them,  the stability they need to stay with us. I'm hopeful that tonight provides a little bit more clarity. And  I believe once the dust settles,  we can give our teachers, our payers, all of our support staff a clearer sense of direction and rebuild that fractured confidence and trust. We really need to move forward together.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are there any questions from the board regarding the staffing update? So I actually have a question. So what I'm hearing right up front is that we have given the

[R16831-7] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: tonight provides a little bit more clarity. And I believe once the dust settles, we can give our teachers, our payers, all of our support staff a clearer sense of direction and rebuild that fractured confidence and trust. We really need to move forward together.
TEXT> Are there any questions from the board regarding the staffing update? So I actually have a question. So what I'm hearing  right up front is that we have given the  resignations that we've had, given our current staffing model. The belief is that our teaching and learning supports are still enough to mitigate any, detrimental effects to students as education.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: I wouldn't say quite like that. We are short of several staff members in bluff and at maximum capacity of teachers to students in the other elementary schools in many

[R16831-49] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, you believe that here? Yes. I don't think education representation.
TEXT> I think it's for education of the  students. Well, from what I understand, it is a, There's there's psychologist in training, and we would have to otherwise obtain those services outside of the school district. Much higher and a much higher cost.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: That's a much higher cost that you're talking about. Hourly rate or and overall.

[R16831-55] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (experience-with-consolidation p | 2025-09-10
PREV> Matt Angell: who would spend one on one days with teachers, and then targeted professional development to improve their their teaching abilities. Okay. Last, last year, my old school district got 90 percentile or 90% on math scores for fourth grade just because we implemented those programs.
TEXT> Unfortunately, we had to use the consolidation of schools in order to get the, those kind of test scores. Okay. We're not going to see those kind of improvements this year. It really is going to take 2 to 3 years if we can focus harder on doing teaching. I'm sorry. Intervention, student intervention, teacher mentoring and more professional development. All right. Thank you.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: Thanks. All right. So I want to start. Off. By kind of recapping some information that's been presented. The previous meetings, but just kind of give us a state, and

[R16831-68] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: slight in possibly future financial predictable future financial gain to that situation. Proposed timeline for this. Nobody's happy to close the school. Nobody's excited. Less. We're excited less to have to do this video. This is the absolute worst time and situation to be in.
TEXT> A closure should  happen over summertime, but we are not in a position to have that much, that luxury of time to be able to do that. So tonight, if it's group, we present a timeline as follows. We would issue out staff assignments beginning tomorrow where staff would be in which buildings and which rooms. And then, parent communications, moving preparation, transportation designs, getting bus routes done would all be done in the following week between weeks between September 21st, October 5th, October 10th to the 14th would be the fiscal moving days. That's over. Columbus Day weekend,  would include Friday and Monday, where there would be no school for elementary students and teachers would,  be packing up their rooms. We would  take care of  moving those materials for teachers. They would just need to pack them to their boxes, and then we would have them move for them over the weekend.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just put them in a box.

[R16831-75] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: on October 15th or the date chosen thereabouts. Parents would be notified by October 7th as to their classroom assignment of students, bus routes, their teacher, and all the other information that may be related to their students, counselors, special education powers, things like that.
TEXT> We would have a smooth transition with minimal student absenteeism and safety incidences during that first month. There would be no further media disruption with this plan. We would be able to maintain this around the year. We would  receive positive, doughy compliance. We've been in touch with the Doe. We've been partnering with them as we we put these ideas forward and they've been giving us guidance. We need to happen. Is that the next step and the next step after that?  And that there would be transparent communication updates providing staff, families and communities throughout this process. So we recognize that citizens comments are limited. We're not going to be able to address everyone's concerns tonight.  Hear every concerns or answer or resolve all concerns. So we wanted to put up a QR code for folks. If you go ahead and scan this, there's going to be feedback that administration will continue to monitor. Thank you for your time. You bring that back to you. Oh, sorry. Yes. Sorry about that. We'll leave that up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is the administration with their presentation?

[R16831-79] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: of concerns at the building level from boots on the ground folks, that we were unable to meet the academic needs of the safety needs and the special education needs of the students. To me, that was required urgent action on part of the board.
TEXT> And and specifically, this was  a bluff issue. And initially the  proposal before us was, to reallocate bluff students so that those needs can be met. I've heard what I consider conflicting information regarding our ability to provide these services.  It sounds like there's a possibility, a real possibility.  But I don't know how predictive that possibility is that our situation could progressively get more grave if we had more resignations, if we had folks out on maternity leave. If we had people abruptly resign or be out on LMA. So I don't know  how that would affect.  And if this in some part, what the administrative team is trying to prevent is a abrupt change in the middle of the school year, instead of an abrupt change at the beginning of a child's  school experience. So but what I, what I would like to hear is what, principles are seeing in the school, particularly in bluff, if they  feel that we are unable to safely and effectively administer education, if they feel that if one pin goes down, then we have a catastrophic situation in our hands that we have to address quickly and that would
NEXT> Heather Whitney: be more disruptive to the community. I don't see that there is a huge savings here. And so this is not a deficit reduction, position. And again, I've never I've

[R16831-87] Patrick O'Hearn | Acting Superintendent & HR Director, SAU 6 (uncertain -- response onse | 2025-09-10
PREV> Loren Howard: Okay. Could somebody talk to me about the advantage of having all second graders together or all fifth graders together? I have my own opinion, but go ahead. Somebody. Educationally speaking.
TEXT> Sure. We have   two of most two teachers at most of the grade levels in each of the three schools. One school may have three in the grade, depending on how many students are there. If we  put them all into one building at that grade level, then everybody's sharing their knowledge and their resources at that grade level. Students are able to have access to a larger knowledge base  for their teachers. And so the the thought is they would get a better education. It would if you take it to the extreme. A single teacher at a single grade in a single school has no colleagues or  support network to draw on whenever they have questions. And so in this way, we're pulling those teachers together  so that they can  teach and work as a team.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Just as follow up, what is the advantage? I know we, have all the elementary schools, funnel into the middle school, I grade six. If we were to, have K

[R16831-100] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (chair speaking as member -- 'wrap my head around'  | 2025-09-10
PREV> Mike Koski: special ed facing us that we need to reform our special ed process. And the way IPS are written and services provided. And it's it's just kind of come to light that we are kind of this far behind the eight ball at this time.
TEXT> So you just said that there's a shortage of 25 pairs of love. I'm just trying to wrap my head around how closing up and moving kids to the other schools would fix that problem.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: Yeah. Great question. It's not 20. Four more. It's 24. That's 24. 2020. Still a good question. It's 24 total. There is that would need to be hired throughout the

[R16831-109] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> I understand that there is no right answer. Right. People are just giving their assessment. And so we're looking to building leaders who supervise teachers who have experience. My concern is, is I'm I'm I do agree. And I've said this before. Everybody knows I'm very much for school reconfiguration for all the reasons outlined. What I'm trying to wrap my head around is whether it is the feeling on the boots on the ground that our current situation is untenable, does not serve the students that we are supposed to be serving. And I guess in particularly in one building in particular, if that means that we have students in unsafe positions or positions that make folks anxious enough to advocate for these changes, because for me,  that would change the calculus a great deal is if I heard that there was concerns from people who walk the schools every day that this is this is paramount of  On Top of Mind. And that's why we should be moving forward now.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. So, Well, I mean, the situation that we had was that at the beginning of the year, we were already down one special education. Okay. And then after, you

[R16831-129] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: I would say like, you know, it was six stitches. We have, closed down. I don't know that off hand, but but it would again, we're already tonight. So when you lose personnel, it's just going to make it, you know, more serious. About something.
TEXT> And do other teachers at other elementary schools are you struggling with an equity of classroom size? I know that love has a, historically a small  teacher to student ratio. And how  is that impacting the schools that are not actually the target of this discussion primarily?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Melissa Lewis. And the principal at Disney. In a variety of ways. So, for example, in the round of new hires, we were due to have a second grade teacher.

[R16831-130] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: other teachers at other elementary schools are you struggling with an equity of classroom size? I know that love has a, historically a small teacher to student ratio. And how is that impacting the schools that are not actually the target of this discussion primarily?
TEXT> Melissa Lewis. And the principal at Disney. In a variety of ways. So, for example, in the round of new hires, we were due to have a second grade teacher. And without that second grade teacher, we now have two classrooms and they have 24 each. In them. And so in terms of  even when a class size grows, your your ratio of even students who,  require more supports through special education, that's more work for the classroom teacher. And I don't mean more work as in,  my gosh, those teachers hate it. Absolutely not. It means more angst about I'm going to do my very best to meet everybody's needs. And so it's additional  internal pressure. I want the best for all my children. So it does impact ratio that way as well. Perhaps we would reconfiguring the way that it's been proposed. Would that equalize these classroom inequities right now? To me, seeing these inequities in an already stressful situation across the board,  it kind of brings to higher focus to the fact that there are certain students in certain schools that are getting more,  teacher to student attention than in other schools.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And that has always been something that's been a great concern, and I think a level of unfair unfairness. And as we move forward, seeing that if, if perhaps and

[R16831-132] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: as we move forward, seeing that if, if perhaps and maples suffers a similar fate, that bluff is facing now, that your situations will be hyper acute because you're already maxing out your classrooms, as I think I think Ed 306 is 25 or 26.
TEXT> Depends also on the grade level, on the grade level, correctly on fire code, on fire  on each room is rated for the number of students that can physically be in that room for a fire code with furniture in the room, and certainly furniture is needed in an elementary classroom. For the other impacted designer,  for example, we used to have three sections of every grade level except. One. And we were very intentional about where that missing third classroom would be based on,  on our on our enrollment. Right now, we have three sections of Pender, three sections of and two sections in every other grade level. So our numbers in fourth grade and fifth grade are also third, fourth and fifth are also into the 20th. Can you  tell me if you can if you know enough,  how would reconfiguration that is being proposed in your mind's eye negatively or positively impact the entire student population, not just specifically in your school? Not necessarily. Very different question, but we're kind of  we're,  you know, not to,  positive, negative  up to interpretation.  What it does is it equalizes class size. So as we were looking through this, literally, what we did was we looked at the number of students in that grade level across the district, divided by how many teachers we currently have in those positions, and that was the class size.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: That would be kind of equalized across the board. And so you folks have seen this proposal. We were asked about what the impact in our schools would be. Yes.

[R16831-141] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (sentence continuation) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: mitigated the any attrition that may occur, because this is a very difficult time for our staff and community. And as much as I pray, hope and endeavor that folks stay with us for as long as they can. I recognize I cannot promise that.
TEXT> As a follow. Up,  I understand that the principals were concerned. For weeks. Ago. That situation became a dire situation. Do you think that having students go from bluff to  business and Maple, eases the situation enough to mitigate the the concern that the principals had?
NEXT> Unidentified: So we had we had worked on a plan for, for three days. We I mean, we kind of came to the conclusion three days in a row that we

[R16831-143] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: row that we thought was planned out that we came up with, it was good and it was pushed back on it and we continued to defend it. And so, we believe it, it does mean on short term needs. I guess that's. Going to.
TEXT> Follow up. Question is,  if we were to do,  reconfiguration and  if we do that this year as, as proposed with students going to, Maple and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Are you talking about this?

[R16831-145] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Are you talking about this?
TEXT> Just just the students going to those two schools. It's the only change.  Do you think that that is a long term  solution? And would we be back here in September proposing a different reconfiguration? And is that good or bad?
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, I do think, you know, an overall consolidation that is going to allow you to use resources, but you're not going to see that. Same as this year. However,

[R16831-152] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair (uncertain -- brief acknowledgment before his  | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: We have an open public comment.
TEXT> Thank you. Okay. I'm still deliberating. So, So I. Personally. Would like. To see not just one. Play a lead up for options. The option that, you know, presented. It's painful to close the school.  It has, but I would like to see the different options. Can we move to split up? You know, the desert and maple?  Transportation. In this plan. It's. Going to be difficult because if you have a kid that came to school. Yeah, K-2 and at three five as a parent, however, going to drop kids off at two different schools at the same time. So you're going to have to have the staggered opening or something going on. Better transportation plan, I think, before we make a decision. And the other thing is their bigger restructuring network. People talk about moving all elementary and middle school, moving middle school to the high school, and that, you know, that's a bigger plan that I think we need to discuss all the options. And. Requires that. Have options laid out of the Premier.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: Thank you, Mr. Peterson. I appreciate your questions. And, I can appreciate the fact that you want to have a few plans and conduct a proper cost benefit analysis, but

[R16831-154] Loren Howard | School Board Member (question later credited to 'Mr. Howard' by O'Hear | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: Fuller K 235 consolidation plan and were to act on bluff closure and with a continuation as much classroom assignments, keeping the same teachers going into design and Maple. I have the utmost confidence that we could, make sure that happens by by Nick Tober.
TEXT> How. Many. Teachers would have to resign as a result of this? To defeat the purpose of the teacher to student ratio, we're setting out to achieve a name I would hope that people wouldn't want to and would want to follow those students. But I get as a human being how that could feel.  And so is it worth it if, if is it by or ten teachers who would have to jump ship  to create the same issue? But now we just have it at two different schools. Is there is there been any consideration of who would leave love and what that would look like in the future? And then further in my brain, I think it'd be more likely we'd get new hires in a stable school that's open. You know, we need special ed educators at love, obviously, what we're doing to hiring and working right now, but I just think it'd be easier to fill that need to go through all of this and then find ourselves with ten less teachers. And we anticipated and we have the same exact problem. And then I would also just like to say that hearing  it's really important when you frame things that if you say it's 24 pairs, you make it clear that it's not just that school. And then of the 24 needed, we do have 12. That is a  different picture than hearing.
NEXT> Loren Howard: There are 24 pairs needed to fulfill bluffs current services. So it takes just.

[R16831-160] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter (as announced; recurring commenter on project record) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Heather Whitney: it will be a total of 30 minutes of comment, not time from folks coming to the podium in a way. So folks, use a minute. It gives other people a minute or two minutes to speak. Please state your word and your name, please.
TEXT> Patrick. Adrian. I'll try to keep. This short of. I agree. With what many board members said. I. Won't long advocate for a,  consolidating. Our schools, but any. Kind of being played in a way. That Mr.. Like a year ahead of these, my my, my, my concerns. Are and. Even if we win the approach on. That Mr.. Life had suggested which I don't understand why we're not taking that approach.  Listen to building educators. I don't get the whole, one put forth by the in terms of it. But even if we do, I guess my concern is I don't see how how this is going to work without this harming staff. You know, bluff is not the only school of these elementary schools that is pretty much stretched beyond the past when it comes to delivering special ed services. And I would I we we are to guess that,  all the schools probably have like some students in there that have services that we are still not able to meet, such as a one on one due to staff.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I don't know that, but I wager that that, so if we're going to take love and you know, that move that those students into this split, even splitting them

[R16831-161] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter (as announced; recurring commenter on project record) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Patrick Adrian: to delivering special ed services. And I would I we we are to guess that, all the schools probably have like some students in there that have services that we are still not able to meet, such as a one on one due to staff.
TEXT> I  don't know that, but I wager that that, so if we're going to take love and you know, that move that those students into this split, even splitting them into discarding Maple, we're still going to have a staffing problem. And the problem with kind of doing, doing, you know, closing a school. Now, if you don't get the savings, you know, part of the whole idea of kind of closing a school I hate, you know, I love all the building ministry, but, we would not need to have, you know, three building principals if we only had two elementary school. That is a secret. And if we're talking consolidated, that's the kind of stuff we're talking about. If we're doing it in advance, we're not going to get the vaccine savings by doing it now. So where are we going to? I, I just don't know. Well, I worry about our staffing, I know things look home now. Wait till winter hits and staff and faculty can't get to school because of the roads or, and there's people are calling and said, we've got to really start thinking about that, about how operational we're going to be in, you know, in a couple of months because we are so eligible, their hair bones right there. We have to really worry about that. Something like 1% left. So I just stopped talking.
NEXT> Ken Lownie: My name is Ken Lani. I'm in word two on the on the very first thing I say might be unpopular. Take it. I came here after hearing a lot

[R16831-165] Alicia Simoneau | Public commenter -- kindergarten teacher, Bluff School (announced as ' | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Is.
TEXT> To sign in first. So the only thing I can think of to start with is we have a failure to communicate. Alicia Seminole I need to create one. At left school, I was hired by Melissa Lewis. And this is what I still. Remember from her. We have to use our. Moral compass. We're not using it right now.  I, I do understand that we do have to consolidate. You're killing me this year to do it. Please don't kill us. We're.  I'm not getting my retirement. My kids are freaking out because we don't have supplies. I'm not getting my. My health insurance might be cut off. And now you're going to move my whole class. Somewhere else. I've got a we won't even come into block. Right now  because he's shy and now we're going to move him. So  this plan that was shown tonight is a Pesta plan. And we all know where Tempesta got us, right? So why would we follow this place? Our principles have worked for three days.
NEXT> Alicia Simoneau: Really trying hard to come up with a great plan. I respect them and I and I was on board with their plan. But then I found out today when

[R16831-166] Alicia Simoneau | Public commenter -- kindergarten teacher, Bluff School (announced as ' | 2025-09-10
PREV> Alicia Simoneau: now because he's shy and now we're going to move him. So this plan that was shown tonight is a Pesta plan. And we all know where Tempesta got us, right? So why would we follow this place? Our principles have worked for three days.
TEXT> Really trying hard to come up with a great plan. I respect them and I and I was on board with their plan. But then I found out today when I talked to the special educators at Maple, no one was even asked if they'd be willing to come over to bluff. Yeah, no one was even asked. Would you be willing to meet with us on zoom and will help you with the case management? Our IEP stayed in there that yes, a special educator can deliver services, but so can a classroom teacher. And I think I can do it. I think it's a principle. We have the support. Please don't move Bluff School until next year. I'm begging you. You're going to kill me. I don't want to quit. I don't even want to retire. And I can retire next year. I don't want to, but I'm going to have to with this kind of stress. Please don't close love school this year. Give us one more year. Good for you. Hi, my name is Theresa Clark and I'm a parent of a child at Bluff School. I've watched these meetings from home and I have to say, it's deeply disheartening.
NEXT> Theresa Clark: It's painful to see a group of adults entrusted with our children's education behave like children themselves, pointing fingers, dodging responsibility and refusing to own the decisions that have brought

[R16831-181] Unidentified | Public commenter -- Bluff PTO parent (name not stated) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: have that have like lighter loads pushed into bluff like as a temporary solution until we find somebody there is a shift to this not floating an entire building. And are you considering the mental health of your students and your staff and your parents?
TEXT> Parents. I'm dying. Like I. Okay.  I'm pretending I'm fine. I'm not fine. Okay. Our parents with this emergency rush. Okay. To just shove everyone to a new building. Have you considered that the other case managers and teachers will leave if you increase their heavy case loads and classroom numbers mean what then? What then? Okay. You should keep in mind I was sorry. You should keep in mind that there is a case manager at Stephens with over 80 students on their caseload. Wow. Okay. There's no nurse at CMS. Is that compliance? Wow. What do we do? Wow. Should it be that structuring. The entire district instead, like the entire district? Not just right now. Not now. The entire district. Look at. The. Whole thing. The whole plan. The whole picture. Not just doesn't have a teacher. Okay.  Where am I? Okay. How much is this going to increase? Transportation costs? How much will it cost? A winter rise, the building. Okay, 60 K. Fine. You still need to pay for maintenance, snow removal, long hair, all the stuff. Okay. How much is this going to cost the district to move these students?
NEXT> Unidentified: All right. You're going to hire a moving crew. Like, where's that money coming from? What is the bottom line? Okay. We still haven't seen the full deficit. I'm sure

[R16831-182] Unidentified | Public commenter -- Bluff PTO parent (name not stated) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: increase? Transportation costs? How much will it cost? A winter rise, the building. Okay, 60 K. Fine. You still need to pay for maintenance, snow removal, long hair, all the stuff. Okay. How much is this going to cost the district to move these students?
TEXT> All right. You're going to hire a moving crew. Like, where's that money coming from? What is the bottom line? Okay. We still haven't seen the full deficit. I'm sure 60 K is not worth this, right? And also,  Yeah. Okay. I had this. We're begging you. Pause. Pause. Don't do this. Please do not vote. Yes. Okay. I know you already probably made up in mind. Please don't do it. Okay. Consider everything before you vote. He's giving me the red flag. We can't take much more of this. And I still want to know what happened to the Medicaid position and who's billing for that? Okay. Thank you. Okay. She'll be in Ward two. You're gonna have to bear with me because I'm working with a lot of people here.  But I want to say that, first of all, as an outspoken member, it took previous school consolidation plans. I want it to be known that many of the public were not against the consolidation plan. We were asking for transparency, and the committee with all stakeholders could be put together to make a plan that would benefit the teachers and students in this district. This is not sound like it's coming from transparency or  a comprehensive committee that has been put together. What is the best?
NEXT> Unidentified: Moving middle six weeks into the year? We are not going to lose staff. What? Like who would stay in this situation? Second, I forgot to say that I wanted

[R16831-185] Erica Abby | Public commenter, Ward 3 -- parent of a special-needs student (as anno | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: how we are writing our IEPs. That concerns me because they're a federal law to be followed. And. I'm that's all I'm going to say. I think that, that our use the teachers and some of the other parents are here, but they're not transparent.
TEXT> Hi. My name is Erica. Abby. I'm in Ward three. I will tell you that I was at home watching this and I couldn't stand it anymore. So I got my car and I drove down here. I have a child that a special needs down syndrome. There's no hiding it. It's very obvious.  It's not going to change, so I don't know why the requirements are that. I have to prove every year that she has special education that out there. But she's 15 now. She has been in this school district, and I have always. Felt. Special  education was under par. Never enough of what we needed for the growing numbers. Now, I just heard the growing numbers of special education. The it is coming up the the socialism issues. If you didn't know that after Covid you were not paying attention. We needed more. You need to know that after a suicide. We needed more. We have never gotten more as far as special education is concerned, and we've never had enough. So one of the questions I have, because I'm supposed to be buying into all this now. The special education director that started this year left. So  you asked the current special ed director for her input. What are her qualifications? What does she know?  How do I know what she knows? How do I know she's making decisions based on longevity and education that she's supposed to have?
NEXT> Erica Abby: And unfortunately, sorry if it immersive you. But same thing that the interim superintendent. What are his. Well we are just putting people in places now to fill the empty

[R16831-188] Mark | Public commenter, Ward 1 (first name as announced; surname not capture | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Mark one.  So I have no idea whether or not the consolidation is necessary or required. The best, often the worst option. And the. Sort of. Who's our first routine? Watched the beginning of this. I didn't answer any of my questions. So my advice to the board is that you,  request a man of the book forward a more detailed plan of what they're proposing, if they're going to be, if there is a consolidation. Continue. Plans. Let's look at all the plans. With the pros and cons of the competing plans. If we're going to move people from schools and what school is my child going to be moved to what they cost? It's really going to move forward with this. You're going to need to do that. And so if you want to do that work ahead of time. Bring all of that plan residents look like and  in the present it to everyone.
NEXT> Mark: And then allow people to evaluate and vote on services to assemble. They said force can be simple, and that really doesn't cost any more work because you're you need

[R16831-199] Emily LeBlanc | Public commenter -- fifth-grade teacher, Maple Avenue School (as annou | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Who?
TEXT> No other moment where you sit there and look at every person in line and listen to all of all this and all of our testimonies, and then go ahead and vote. Regardless of what we say, you have already lost the trust of everybody in this room. You've lost the trust of the teachers, the parents and the students. Make the right decision.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good for you. I want to start by saying that I have the deepest and most compassion and appreciation for all of the teachers who have spoken today, who are

[R16831-201] Unidentified | Public commenter -- parent of a special-education student, ~3 years in | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: seem to be an option for our school board. And you voted for schools to start on time and another meeting. Our community, rightfully so, was advocating about you and the community, community leaders protecting our tax burden. And we have tax burden concerns there.
TEXT> And then we have another meeting, rightly so, where our teachers and educators are voicing a concern. But you all have a decision to make and you cannot please anyone, as everyone. I mean, as you have it at any of these ordinance, I want to ask a couple of  up questions to the proposal and some of the issues that I've heard when you were talking about the s a proposal, you talked about grade level centers of excellence, and you mentioned less tax impact. I would like the community to be able to see are there actual numbers? Is that a pipe dream or is this a potential solution for less tax impact as a taxpayer. And that includes the majority of us. The other question that I have is what percentage of students in the Claremont School District require special education services? As a parent of a student with special education needs? Although my time in Claremont as a parent has been short, it's only been almost three years that from the beginning I saw that special education was was greatly wanting in the city of women. I think that would help the board to make some very important decisions about our funding, about our school structure and about support for our teachers. Please include the principals. Thank you for opening their voice and please provide support to the teachers no matter what the decision is going forward. Thank you so much.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: Hello. Amanda. Barton, Ward two. So I just. Want to start I. Was also blindsided with, like, everybody about the proposal tonight. And I'm. Starting to. Think, did our superintendent

[R16831-209] Greg Adams | Public commenter, Ward 3 (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-09-10
PREV> Ashley: only go from bluff to dinner, then he would be going to me. That is three schools in a year. That is too much for us to ask the children to be resilient. And it's disgusting and I will not stand for it. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi Greg Adams. Ward. Three.. I'm actually pretty new here. To the community. I moved to Texas a few months back, all time here in part time, back and forth for the last year. So I'm here as a taxpayer. I don't have a kid in the school or anything.  But I've been kind of watching this and yeah, following along with the trepidation.  First, I want to just say I'm sorry that you as a community is having to deal with this. It's horrible. Parents, the students, the teachers. I thank the board for, you know, the hard decisions that you guys are having to make and deal with. And, you know, having sat in this meeting right now, I felt the need to get up and say,  based on how the presentation was given. I just I don't understand when there was another a.
NEXT> Greg Adams: Plan that had been put together and worked on by the principles of the schools, that the administrators just come in with a different plan and not have any real

[R16831-214] Shayla Duran | Public commenter -- Unity resident (as announced; not on public roster | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: they grow up in the mornings. What is your plan to get those parents to these new schools, to meet these new principals and new teachers and stuff? So what is your plan with that, I got you. What is the plan for those parents?
TEXT> My name is Shayla Duran  and I live in unity and I'm here in the district now.  I have some legitimate questions. I think everyone's presented their feelings about this plan or the the two different plans, the options. I deal with logistics, project managing and logic for a day job.  So it seems like this plan, there was a lot of things kind of left out or not presented  some of my questions about the plan itself. What impact would have on any sort of overhead staff, administration staff? Does the 65, 60 to $65,000 in savings this year? What what  what costs are foreseen going against the overall saving? What are the overall savings versus overall cost for this movement? Are there  elimination of duplicate positions? What are the maintenance energy costs?  What a long term plans for the property, something we're going to hold on to, or are we going to sell it? What's the value of it on the market?  You know, is potentially selling it something that could bring money in to help us out of this whole,  I was a student that went through the consolidation in the 90s with the five elementary schools,  the Maple Bluff. That was a difficult thing when it happened, when it was planned, and it happened over the summer.
NEXT> Shayla Duran: I couldn't imagine what that would be to deal with during the school year, for both teachers and and and the students. And I understand it's not a favorable idea.

[R16831-215] Shayla Duran | Public commenter -- Unity resident (as announced; not on public roster | 2025-09-10
PREV> Shayla Duran: to help us out of this whole, I was a student that went through the consolidation in the 90s with the five elementary schools, the Maple Bluff. That was a difficult thing when it happened, when it was planned, and it happened over the summer.
TEXT> I couldn't imagine what that would be to deal with during the school year,  for both teachers and and and the students. And I understand it's not a favorable idea. I does sound like consolidation does make sense. It sounds like it doesn't make sense to do big year.  I see with just a goal and cost savings for doing that, as well as combining the  grades together for synergy of the teachers. And also, you know, for the gym teachers, the art teachers, the music teachers, they're teaching more at the same level, grade levels. They can, I think have a better effect and be more efficient.  I'd like to say thank you guys for continuing to let more people speak.  Understand that this is not easy and there's going to have to be unfavorable decisions made. But there's you can't  do something. There hasn't been a lot of other options presented. And we don't have a magic lawn. We don't have unlimited money. We don't have people just chomping at the bit to come in and fill these positions either. As we heard, there's positions that were open that they didn't get one person to fill.
NEXT> Shayla Duran: We have to do something. I'm not saying this is the right thing to do. I'm saying we have to do something and I don't know how we come up

[R16831-217] Stephanie Kimball | Public commenter, Ward 1 -- Bluff parent (as announced; not on public  | 2025-09-10
PREV> Shayla Duran: community, I don't know. Get together and brain for us to try to come up together with ideas, benefits and costs. But this kind of presenting a half cost plan doesn't really seem like the best. Or have the support of the community. Thank you.
TEXT> Hello. My name is Stephanie Kimball, Ward one. I am a parent of a second grader who goes to bluff. He is excited every weekday to go to school. He runs through his teacher before and after class, wanted to say hi, to say bye, and it goes out of his way to say hi to the principal. When he learned that bluff was closing, he cried. He has been very upset, has pleaded not to close the bluff, begging me that he doesn't want to go to a different school. What you are doing, what this proposal is, is you are breaking up a family. We use the bluff teachers, the principal, his friends as a second family. Stop breaking my kids hard and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Warren to. One thing that I also just want to bring to the tension our talk about is that every plan that we have been proposed by the district and

[R16831-218] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2 -- raised preschool special-education complia | 2025-09-10
PREV> Stephanie Kimball: me that he doesn't want to go to a different school. What you are doing, what this proposal is, is you are breaking up a family. We use the bluff teachers, the principal, his friends as a second family. Stop breaking my kids hard and.
TEXT> Warren to. One thing that I also just want to bring to  the tension our talk about is that every plan that we have been proposed by the district and the board, and whoever has put these plans forwards without any transparency, is that we are restructuring. We can put preschool in the elementary schools. Where  are  we with looking at those little kids? If you want to talk about compliance, why don't you look at the two and a half and five year old who for years we have been out of compliance serving in this district.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Public comments is closed. Is there anybody. From the board who. Would like to. Propose any questions or make a motion?

[R16831-229] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Snow. On it. It's awful. Our kids deserve better.
TEXT> The motion before us is to, for now, table the plan that was printed that presented by the administration as am I correct that that is the motion that you made. Okay, so we can vote on that motion. All in favor of of tabling the plan as presented by the administrative team. Say raise your hand, say a okay. That's unanimous. Discussion about what the principals had brought forth for me. I need to if I'm putting students prioritizing students, I'm feeling that,  I cannot prioritize. Teachers are very important. Parents are very important. Everybody is extremely emotional. Everybody has been extremely disrupted. People's lives are torn apart. But despite how horrible and ugly this situation is, I have to believe, and I feel that we have to prioritize the students that are  in the most need, that are in the greatest risk. And I don't think this is at all about money at this point in time. It was never presented that this was about money.  There was there is very little savings that actually, at this point in time, given that we have all the staff that's at bluff, contractually obligated, and 80 to 90% of all of our budget goes to contractual staff. This is not a money saving thing at this snapshot in time for me, it is a student service issue and to be able to provide a continuity of services.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: My concern is if we are are scarce, we have scarce resources across three schools that if one domino falls, we could be doing this later in the school year

[R16831-260] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-09-10
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. So why can't we. Have the meeting until after. You know, the. Depth of Claremont versus coming back to have this meeting and we don't even know the full debt.
TEXT> Okay, so you have to understand, for me, in trying to manage the the deficit, I see the management struggling and trying to make day to day decisions. Okay. When the operation kind of fails, then I can't guarantee an end to that deficit by the end of the year. Okay. So we have to come together as a community and make a decision and trying to decide, are we going to try to close the debt? Are we going to try to improve student scores? Are we going to try to keep the school okay?
NEXT> Unidentified: Social emotional health is really important. Though right here. The meeting on the 17th, the meeting of the the meeting of the 17th is not just to discuss this, it's

[R16857-4] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: is going to surprise some of you, but not all of you, because I'm, I'm proud to say I'm not even going to say. I'm ashamed to say because I'm not. I'm old. And I have had some of you in the audience as students.
TEXT> I've had some of you in the audience. I've had the privilege of having your children, and I been in Claremont last year. I finished my 32nd year in the Thurmont School District. I am. On education. I don't share that for accolades. I share that because that is something I am incredibly proud of, and not because I'm just old and have been here a long time. I'm proud because the people I stand alongside that call themselves Claremont educators deserve to be recognized. And I don't know that people  in our profession, even outside of our profession, realize what it means when we say we're Claremont educators. We're not your normal breed of educators. People use words,  probably unkind at times, like maybe our husbands when they call us stubborn. I prefer to say I'm determined. I will say that of my colleagues as well. We have grit. We're problem solvers.  We've done more with less in other times than than many districts have ever had to do or ever will do.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We do not give up. Our heart is probably three times larger than what it is of any educator, because educators are known for a lot of charts. But we're

[R16857-7] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: all students for the school year at Bluff Elementary School, so there's some really key phrases in there. Due to an inability to fill open positions, positions that were open over the summer but didn't yield us any applicants. Deficit issues and subsequent resignations. Bluffs.
TEXT> Current class configurations. Look  as the following. You can see the number of classrooms. Two classrooms in kindergarten, two in third grade, all others having just one classroom. You see the number of students in each grade level varying from 20 to 20. Excuse me. 229. Remember, this is by grade level. Number of students in each classroom you can see in kindergarten. Numbers are lower there. That is the same. And particularly at Disney as well. We have low numbers this year.  Every year you have numbers that emit flow in different grade levels. This is a low number for block and for Disney this year in kindergarten. And you see a high number of 25 students in fifth grade. Within those numbers, you then see the number of identified students. And when I say identified students, those are students who have gone through a formal process and determined to be in need of special education services, and you see a total right now of 46 students at Bluff Elementary School. Please do not think I want to be crystal clear. This isn't an effort to  highlight a population of students for any particular negative reason at all.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: It's simply to say, here's one of the problem areas that that brought the principals to needing to brainstorm. So here's our proposal summary. We're going to get into it

[R16857-8] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: of special education services, and you see a total right now of 46 students at Bluff Elementary School. Please do not think I want to be crystal clear. This isn't an effort to highlight a population of students for any particular negative reason at all.
TEXT> It's simply to say, here's one of the problem areas that that brought the principals to needing to brainstorm. So here's our proposal summary. We're going to get into it in much more detail. But here's the overview. We are  proposing one option B to move bluff classrooms into open classrooms in Maple after school and Disney Elementary School. He component please in the next part by moving bluff students their entire classroom of students with their current teacher and their paraprofessional simply into new physical space in Disney  and Maple Avenue. Meaning we would keep those students. Yes, they would change schools. They would not change trusted adults. They would not change  their educators. It is known we physically can take two classrooms. Therefore, we would move  one fourth grade classroom from Bluff to Disney, and one fifth grade classroom to Disney. Middle Avenue has a bit more religion. Maple Avenue could take the pride program as well as four classrooms, so we would combine two kindergarten classrooms into one. That would be a total of 20, and two teachers would be in that building with those 20 children.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We would take that first grade classroom from bluff and we would move it to make a living. We would take that second grade classroom and move it from Bluff

[R16857-9] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: has a bit more religion. Maple Avenue could take the pride program as well as four classrooms, so we would combine two kindergarten classrooms into one. That would be a total of 20, and two teachers would be in that building with those 20 children.
TEXT> We would take that first grade classroom from bluff and we would move it to make a living. We would take that second grade classroom and move it from Bluff to Maple Avenue. We would combine those two third grades into one classroom. Now you might say, well, Melissa, that's 29 kids. That's a lot. It is with two teachers and any special, excuse me, any special ed paraprofessionals that would be supporting that they would all travel together. I want to be crystal clear about a couple points. All teachers would remain with their children. And any paraprofessionals that are providing support outlined in a student's IEP that are currently working with them would travel with those students and with that teacher team. Teaching would occur in kindergarten and third grade where there are additional teachers. Now, there's additional bluff staff that would need to be reassigned. I'm going to jump down to the plan details, though, before I  go through those. And this is probably one of the most important pieces to all of us in the Claremont School District. No  positions would be eliminated in this process. No position would be eliminated.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: What would happen with the list I'm about to review is that really careful deliberation and thought would be put into what is the best way to access the skills

[R16857-10] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: to jump down to the plan details, though, before I go through those. And this is probably one of the most important pieces to all of us in the Claremont School District. No positions would be eliminated in this process. No position would be eliminated.
TEXT> What would happen with the list I'm about to review is that really careful deliberation and thought would be put into what is the best way to access the skills and services or skills of these people that are in these positions, and how to use them best in the Claremont School District, so that their talents are highlighted, and so that we remain having amazing individuals. Remember Claremont educators in our school district, we don't want to lose any of them. And when I say Claremont educator, if you work in a Claremont School, in my mind you are Claremont Educator. We would have the bluff principal. The Bluff Student Service coordinator won  the bluff year round. Secretary bluff Daytime custodian two title one teachers, one special education teacher, one art teacher, one music teacher, one library paraprofessional, one behavioral support staff, and one school nurse. So careful consideration would be thought about where where can we use those persons talents and skills the most? So now getting into even more plans so some of it will be redundant. I apologize, but it's important that we all understand the finer points of this plan. Again, no positions would be eliminated in this process. We would move the pride program to Maple Avenue.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We would move Bluff Kindergarten to Maple Avenue, bluff first grade, second grade, and third grade to Maple Avenue, for a total of 94 students, 25 of whom are identified

[R16857-13] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: may say that worked for me when they were at bluff and it won't work for me now. All current bluff routes will be rerouted to Desert and Maple and yes, due to grade levels being split, some families will have students on multiple busses.
TEXT> So what would the results be in this closure? The bold numbers you see are bluff numbers. And please know, the only reason those are highlighted is to show kind of where  where they go.  They are not meant to stand out as maple, desert and bluff. I think  those of you that know me and those of you that know your principles behind me well know that sense of community and family is everything to us. And so if we are welcoming new friends into our school  one, we're going to have fun doing it. And two, we are going to make sure that every child, an adult that walks through our doors, knows they are welcome and entering a new school family. So as you can see in the school population classroom configurations below, kindergarten would at Disney would have three classrooms with three teachers. Maple three classrooms for teachers. Remember there's going to there'll be doubled up in some team teaching. There total number of students. You can see with the addition of the 20 from bluff. You can see, as I said, that kindergarten is as low numbers for Disney art as well. This year, first grade, three classrooms, three teachers at Disney  Maple.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Same thing. You can see the total number of students and then what the classroom sizes would be. Same with second grade and third grade. You get to fourth grade.

[R16857-14] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: teaching. There total number of students. You can see with the addition of the 20 from bluff. You can see, as I said, that kindergarten is as low numbers for Disney art as well. This year, first grade, three classrooms, three teachers at Disney Maple.
TEXT> Same thing. You can see the total number of students and then what the classroom sizes would be. Same with second grade and third grade. You get to fourth grade. You'll see that Disney art has the addition of 24 fourth graders, 25 fifth graders, and the sizes of those classrooms in both Maple and Disney. What about on the special ed side? So for special education services, this is would be the result. After the closure and welcoming students to Disney in Maple Avenue, you can see that starting with Disney and the pink each of the grade levels, the number of students receiving special ed services in case management, I apologize, there's that typo. I'd love to blame Mr. Blunt or Mr. Shannon, but it's. Going to be. So you can see how  where you see be after a number. That would be the addition of  bluff identified students. You can see the number of special educators that would be servicing students. And you can see what the caseload of special educators would be after a blunt closure and  melting of students. You can also see the same for Maple Avenue School.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Maple Avenue School is where we would use the contracted services case management. The goal is to keep those caseloads of our special educators at levels that are similar to

[R16857-17] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: would do is we would notify all families of their child's new school assignment. That part's a little easier because we've told you which grade levels will be going where by October 10th. Each student and family will then receive an Individualized Student Information. Notice.
TEXT> And I apologize. I don't think I can get to it from here, but I can pull it up right after. As well as  welcoming information from their new school containing any information about routines and procedures specific to that school on that student information sheet, it would have  child's name grade, new school, who their teacher is, who their special needs manager is if applicable. How do you get to the school website? What's the name of the principal? What's the name of the secretary? How do you get Ahold of them?  School. School counselor. What's their name? Contact information. How about school nurse? We would provide that all from the get go. So families have an information sheet right away. In addition, if they're above student or requiring bus services, all of that information would be there for them. What bus that would be taking? Excuse me. What  bus number? Where's the staff? What's the time range for pickup and what's the time range for drop off so that parents have that information well in advance of the first day of school. Now when we all left the last. Well, last week's meeting. Here's where Claremont educators are tenacious. They're fierce. They're stubborn. Again, we call it determined. There was not one at one elementary educator on Thursday morning that wasn't saying, what can we do? What can we do? We want to support bluff students, bluff staff, and blessed families in any way that we can.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I heard it from my staff Thursday morning. Mr. blunt heard it from his staff. Ideas came forward and I got to see them on that Bluff Elementary School doing

[R16857-18] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: stubborn. Again, we call it determined. There was not one at one elementary educator on Thursday morning that wasn't saying, what can we do? What can we do? We want to support bluff students, bluff staff, and blessed families in any way that we can.
TEXT> I heard it from my staff Thursday morning. Mr. blunt heard it from his staff. Ideas came forward and I got to see them on that Bluff Elementary School doing it themselves, trying to figure it out. What are we going to do? Claremont educators were at work Thursday like nobody's business. What can we do? So we have an additional proposal to share with you that is very different. Again, you see the same problem statement because  the concern doesn't go away. You know that as of today, there's one special educator for 46 students at Bluff Elementary School. Again, due to that inability to fill some positions over. The summer. With no applicant applying the deficit issues we're facing and subsequent resignations, Bluffs current configuration looks exactly as I shared with you previously. The proposal summary for proposal number three is a reassignment of special education, special education case management services. In this proposal, we are proposing to redistribute case management and instructional responsibilities between Bluff Business, Maple Avenue and contracted service case management. As many of you know, within the world of special education, a special educator really has two roles. They provide specially designed instruction as a service to that student that's individualized to them and to their needs, as well as the case management. In the world of special education, there is a process and there are a lot of checks and balances.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: A lot of people work and a lot of things that need to be done in order to ensure students are receiving the services they need. The first part of

[R16857-20] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: impact to transportation for this proposal. What this proposal does do is you can see it's color coded, the pink or kindergarten bluff case manager piece managers would take care of those eight students, along with the pride program and only referrals that come. In.
TEXT> Maple Avenue. Second grade is now a third grade contracting service, which is what the CS stands for would be the fourth and fifth grade. What you have at the bottom, the percentage of schools of the school receiving special education services, that is right now that is not with  any of the new students or new  case management proposed being factored in. So this would be as of today.  Those are the percentage of that particular school are in need of special education services and receiving those services. Again, what would the family notification plan? B all bluff families of special education students would be contacted by their new case manager no later than September 22nd. That is the end of our three proposals. Remember the. Proposal one is essentially off the table. I would invite anyone at the table here. I don't know if either Mrs. Kennedy or Mr. Angel has anything you'd like to add before we open it up to questions and comments from the board?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I've been told that I forgot to introduce Miscarry Kennedy. Miscarry Kennedy is our new interim superintendent. She came. She's fairly new to the district, but she came to

[R16857-26] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified; addresses the new interim superintende | 2025-09-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: we're looking for tonight. Right now we're looking for comments on the plans that were presented. Like I said, three minutes. We'll have you sign in with your name and ward. So if you if anybody wants to speak, you come up to the podium.
TEXT> Because I'm sure everybody wants to answer to that question. You talk about writing this ship. Welcome. Sorry you've come into this mess. Where where  are the  the policies for the  writing of the ship? Where are the checks and balances starting? Because they've not happened. We've had no checks and balances, obviously. So what? What is happening? To make checks and balances. Now you're new to us. So  you're you're  who's checking that you're doing the right thing, making the right decisions. Who's doing that? We need an answer for that because how can we move forward? Not trusting. And no one's still checking any of this. But what's going on has gone on. We can't change it. We obviously need answers for that. But we need to hurry up and get moving forward because we're not going to fill slots of empty teachers, nurses who in their right mind would come here if we lose any more, we're we're full detrimental now. There's nowhere to go.  I would think someone was crazy. I wouldn't want them with my kids if they came here. What's your goal? Why do you want to come here? Doesn't even start with everything going on. Why do you want to be here? So, can I just one more thing? Because she stole 30s from me. When this all started, 700 people were coming to this meeting.
NEXT> Unidentified: 600? 500. Now, what are we at 100? Where are you? I at home show up. This is your community. From transportation. Making sure staff and kiddos aren't falling between

[R16857-30] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2 (unidentified; name unintelligible on recordi | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: going to close the bluff down for a week for those teachers to move, if that's the one proposed, because that takes a long time for that love to be shown in the rooms spend at the school that they are, the love's already there.
TEXT> They have that love, they have that care. I know they move with their teachers, but it's still a new routine. Statistics show that kids get moved around a lot. Start heading hating education by the sixth grade so you can start moving his first graders through fifth graders. They'll start hitting it next year because they don't have trust in the adults in the school and the school board who owns to build our community. This is going to slowly chip away at our community. I heard you say those poaching teachers, they did that when they didn't hire those teachers. So those teachers didn't get poached. They had to find a new job. So that's the thing you think about. They had to find new jobs. They didn't get poached from the school district. They had to find jobs. So they went to Newport and they went to West Windsor, Bald Mountain, Keene. They might have houses here. Now they're trying to sell because they don't want to be in this district anymore. It's going to take ten years for y'all to get the community's trust back, to trust this school district. 5 million in a home. That sucks. But not having the educators here sucks even more.
NEXT> Unidentified: So you need to make sure you take care of the educators. Those teacher burnout is real. For real. Because when y'all burn them out, they're not coming back. They

[R16857-38] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified; Claremont teacher and Bluff Elementary | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: students of love, and the students that people are, frankly, that you have not already made up your minds about how you're going to vote tonight. So we seem to be focused on one school that we should really be focused on the entire district.
TEXT> Okay. At this time, I understand you're on, so I want clarity on this before you vote.  I understand that we have 1 or 2 special educators at bluff. Is it one? Is it two? Because last we knew, we didn't have any. From what I hear, we have to just go with that. Tammy, I see you.  That really needs to factor into your decision tonight. To my. It's Mike. Right? To my,  comment about being poached. Michael. Closures.  We get poached, quote unquote, all the time. Like we're.  That's an educators life. You get all to, like, go teach somewhere else. And I don't think I think if that was the case, so many of us would already be gone.  Because it's happening everywhere. So  we're here to. Not any 60 K isn't worth moving all this stuff in students. So I really encourage you to please choose proposal three so that I don't have to change my life and my daughter's this year and then again next year, because I know,  and I can guarantee that based on history, once you close bluff, you won't reopen it. That's right. Okay, so what about maintenance costs? When,  when it's closed? Okay. If it's going to be a bus stop, which I love that idea, but if it's going to be a bus stop with the schools a heated and open there goes for 60 K,  moving costs are going to be significant. And then. Okay. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: I made it this time. Is this about money? Right? Or is this about the students? Because this should be about the students, right? Should you be able to students

[R16857-42] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Amanda Barton: actually more in favor of proposal three because like I've heard here, it's it's less impact on the students in that disruption. So I have some clarifying questions I'm hoping that you guys will discuss for me. So, are the case manager numbers more equitable?
TEXT> I was having a really hard time. I misread the proposal at home. So thank you for the clarification. And I'm just trying to figure out if, like, their lows would be similar, especially in terms of time. Right. So we know not all cases are the same. So just because someone has ten and someone has 15, they could be completely equitable so that they are equitable. And that stands for teachers. And and if they are not, are our Maple and our special educators expected to travel to bluff to do those services? And if so,  I really think that we should be looking at teacher compensation for these types of things. Right. We heard the other day we need to value our teachers. These are amazing people. I would hope I mean, we've said that. I think that's very clear. That's why my kids are still here at this  wonderful, town, because I love the teachers here. So I think if we're going to expect more from some of these teachers, let's ask for some compensation. I would love to see some more creativity. Like, can we get some volunteers to cover a lunch duty so teachers can do special ed services?
NEXT> Amanda Barton: Right. We have those options. There's a lot of people in town who want to help. We've heard that and it's amazing. So let's kind of keep those ideas going.

[R16857-50] Unidentified | Brief crosstalk (speaker not identifiable) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Charlene Lovett: worth the trial. And as we have seen tonight, we were dealt a difficult, very difficult situation. But we have the table, we have the people, we have the fortitude to fight our way out of the situation and come out stronger in the end.
TEXT> Thank you. I'll Walker Ward one.  I got a little spun out when Mr. Angel's comments earlier,  about, you know, obviously the poaching and the. And just how thin razor thin this is if somebody gets the flu.  Man, I wish I knew how thin. Like, who were those educators that are so critical from all of them? All of such a critical. But as sitting here in your new position, really one of those passes has to be making sure that those are contacted, communicated with and and healthy, not not just from the flu, but taking care of when this going forward because there beat the hell.  So good luck with that.  The poaching we've heard before that it's something that happens, right? More money here. It's better over there. But maybe we should try to poke and and say, look at our awesome community. Get that word out. I heard another community members say that. I do have to say thank you. This was very powerful because, it is very refreshing to have that instead of what we had before. Fantastic. Thank you. Great. So. So,  good luck communicating with those teachers and the students and everything else. Thank you.
NEXT> Tammy Yates: I want. To. Speak on behalf. Of our bluff students. At this point, children. Are scared. We're beginning to see. Trauma in them. It is really hard for. Me as.

[R16857-61] Heather Dubrovsky | Public commenter (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Hope Damon: done. And honestly, my heart as a parent and a person from a family of educators goes out to everybody and is grateful for everybody who's trying to fix this. We are trying to figure out how to make it not ever happen again. Thanks.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Heather Dubrovsky. I'm fourth grade.  I don't have a elementary school student anymore in the school. I have a freshman in high school.  I had no intention of speaking tonight.  But I'm just wondering. I spent the last four weeks here. I think this is the fourth meeting I've been here.  I've made a commitment to be here. Because I think it's important. I think it's important to be here to support the teachers that are here and the principles that are here and and find out what's going on. What I found is that we have no real updates on what's happening, where we present the  the status of what's happening with the audit. Where we stand at this point, if there's going to be a status of are we going to have to close a school? How much how far behind are we? Do we, you know, have we made any games? How bad things are?  I think people are  not invested because we haven't heard the status of where we're at. And I think it's really important if we need people to be engaged and need to fill these seats. We need to get these critical updates out there more often to get people back into these seats and get people back into being engaged, because if we don't get them out here, they're not going to be here and they're not going to be involved.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R16857-68] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: that and understand that it also impacts other parts of the school too. And I appreciate it. Again, huge personal shout out to CMS. They are working hard and trying to make everything work and get everybody, you know, really as safely as we can.
TEXT> Let me just look at this. Anything else quickly. We absolutely hear you in the stress, number of students, things like that.  We're trying to mitigate that as much as possible. Again, on the angel. Speak to the subpart.  But it is real. We appreciate and again, just all of our community agencies stepping up. And I appreciate everybody really offering to do what they can. And we just have to be cautious. And I appreciate  the students alumni group working with us, because we want to make sure we don't get into another financial issue, too. So we want to I know it's sort of like we want money right away and we do, but we need to make sure we allocate everything what is going for and just do our bookkeeping really well. So just to again, avoid any other future situations. Do you want to speak to this on this first?
NEXT> Matt Angell: Sure. For the subs what we're trying to do is is look at available dollars or what we have and try to allocate some sort of dollars towards subs. The

[R16857-83] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Matt Angell: Okay, thanks.
TEXT> First of. All, I'd like to. Thank. Principles for their work.  I know that this has been a lot of work for them. It's been a lot of works from the very beginning to keep their. Students and their staff, together and on task and not get discouraged. And cheerleading is exhausting. And  and so thank you. And also thank you to the teachers  who are working in a very, very difficult situation, the situation that they didn't create and they're doing their best. And we all appreciate that. It's it's it's terrible. I'm sorry you have to do that. But I appreciate the effort that you're putting in.  I think that, I thought a lot about this, and,  I think that there are so many aspects, so many,  pieces of this decision that we're making. I'm old enough to remember, various closings here when my children were in school. Let's see, l West Harris closed. Wave school closed. North Street closed.  And and I said, was somebody else saying about. Yeah. And,  so, so school closing. School populations are a function.  It goes up and down.  I'm old enough to be the the baby boomer. When I came through, I was the first year of the baby boomers.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And. And so when I was in sixth grade, I had 44 students in my class, because that's what the baby boomer happened. We have been, in recent years, we

[R16857-84] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: I said, was somebody else saying about. Yeah. And, so, so school closing. School populations are a function. It goes up and down. I'm old enough to be the the baby boomer. When I came through, I was the first year of the baby boomers.
TEXT> And. And so when I was in sixth grade, I had 44 students in my class, because that's what the baby boomer happened.  We have been, in recent years, we have had a decline  in elementary in all schools in Plymouth Stephens High School. It used to be 15 1700. Now we're at 500.  It has been it has been a transition. And so we are taking a look. We're trying to see we're trying to weigh,  giving the students the most responsible, the best education we can while being responsible to the taxpayers to do it in a most equitable way financially. And that's that's a very tough balance to, to do.  We try to achieve some equity among the classes so that one teacher doesn't have ten kids and another have 24 kids. There needs to be some equity  in teaching assignments. So so we're looking at the overall global picture of  declining populations in our schools. We're looking at trying to be responsible with the budget. And then on top of that, we've got this crisis of  the immediate concern for our finances. And we have been put in a horrible situation that we are in  unprecedented area. We not have the luxury. Of.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I mean, we do not luxury of having a 2 to 3 year process of analyzing and making and having you all participate in, in wonderful, parent teacher community forums

[R16857-97] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> I think the big issue for this is substitutes. And if we can get money in the substitute budget, then  it seems proposal three covers to special education needs.  I think the one thing I'd really like to see is a number value attached to the contracted service for this. And how the consultant service for this.  But I do think,  it is  probably much more desirable to pay that value than to let these students go without help and being unable to hire. So yeah, it doesn't make sense to me.  Again, I think a lot of what I said last week, the reason I didn't say much tonight was because,  I said most of my thoughts last week, and I don't feel like much of them have changed since then.  It doesn't make sense to me to say that certainty would be any part of either of these plans. So I think that's a pretty disingenuous representation of proposal number two. I think the biggest piece of uncertainty there is the amount of teachers we heard who would not either would not follow  the order, just would be physically and mentally incapable of the task you were asking.
NEXT> Unidentified: For them. Yeah. Doesn't matter.

[R16857-99] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: For them. Yeah. Doesn't matter.
TEXT> Students go to a classroom if the teacher who is supposed to meet them there is not good.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Lauren. Thank you. Lauren. Do you have questions for the.

[R16857-103] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: children. I've been in the classroom. I've been in your shoes. I don't like being on this side. I can't imagine what all of you are going through. The reality is we are here and these are the hard decisions that have to be made.
TEXT> You need to advocate for children. That's right. What we need to do. Is be the poorest neighborhoods in town, and they're the ones taking the hit. Once again. We are asking for you to. Let. This told. You so. Have some heart for kids.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So yeah, citizens comments are over at this point. What I am hearing from our educators, or a number of the educators in the room and the administration is the

[R16857-110] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: into the snow calling it that. I do want to be proactive rather than reactive and understand that because I don't want to have to be messaging that, you know, 1030 at night saying, I don't have enough educators tomorrow to open the building safely.
TEXT> And what does that look like and how we're doing it? So it's still going to cause a deficit across the district. So even if we say, okay, let's reach out whoever we can borrow from another place, it's there's nobody who's sitting around that's not assigned to a specific student or a specific task. So it's going to be a loss in somewhere across the district. So I think everybody does know that. But just again,  to be ahead of this is like how do we do this. So this is what I wanted to get in with. This is like where do we find the safety of the numbers? Where can we make sure that we're still providing quality education? Yes. Middle school and high school could go remote. That's not fair to families with littles. That doesn't help you.  Just say okay. For sure. We we know during the pandemic, you were able to bring a computer home and you were able to do remote learning, but that's not true quality learning. And so what does that look like? And is this, you know, I'll be honest. It could be any, you know, not saying there's a new pandemic, but any flu could still be 3 or 4 days.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It doesn't just mean it's in one day. And that's in you know the educator is back. This is educators. And we say that again we're collectively paras lunch folks.

[R16857-131] Unidentified | Audience crosstalk (speaker not identifiable) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Loren Howard: Guys, this. Is how you fix that if you are unhappy. This is like. Voting.. Like this seems like a really bad time.
TEXT> To leave. Thank you. I have a kid. I have to go.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: We have. Mr. David Putnam has put in his letter, to fill the vacant seat. We have a mr. Don. Mr.. Don, the ballot, has put in his letter to

[R16857-176] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Loren Howard: on the first or even next week, as soon as possible. Honestly, we develop a committee of parents, teachers. Any community stakeholders, who have a stake in what the elementary schools are going to look like next year. It's going to be a big discussion.
TEXT> Obviously, it's not just bluff we're talking about. There's like we talked about earlier this evening just to host 1500 kids and adults 500. There's a lot of room for change in Claremont. And I think that needs to be that that conversation needs to happen with everybody and not we come in May and say we're closing. There's nothing to maybe everyone's getting shot into this building, building a new one that I'm making those up, obviously. But I think discussion of forming a committee,  for elementary restructuring or school restructuring is the report should be on a bigger Laura and  just ask.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That. You if you if you want to put those in the email to Heather. So she can add to this. On the agenda. Sure. And Mr. Kennedy wanted to

[R16872-63] Rebecca | Public commenter, Ward 1; Claremont Middle School teacher (first name  | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. Rebecca Ward one, and a teacher at CMS. And since. Chris brought up good news, I have to tell you that my 65 science students this week were sprouting black bean seeds. And they just the amazement was just so awesome. Like, well, what what do these grow? I mean, you know, my head. You mean, what do they grow? Black bean. Plate, you know, but they hadn't seen that. And so that just, you know, it helps to do what we do. But I would love to return to a sense of normalcy. And you've brought this up before, but we have nowhere near a sense of normalcy. And I'm glad that the school board is trying to arrange it, but I don't think it's called for. We need to continue with the emergency meetings. You need to continue to allow it as open as public. I'm I'm sorry there aren't more people here. I had thought that the focus was going to be on the $5 million that's missing  or in debt. I'm sorry. Not missing. I'm so sorry  in, you know, that we're in debt. So I'm a little disappointed here.
NEXT> Rebecca: We're going to only have a little bit about that. I just the teachers are working so hard to make it feel as normal as possible, but it's not when

[R16872-64] Rebecca | Public commenter, Ward 1; Claremont Middle School teacher (first name  | 2025-10-01
PREV> Rebecca: sorry there aren't more people here. I had thought that the focus was going to be on the $5 million that's missing or in debt. I'm sorry. Not missing. I'm so sorry in, you know, that we're in debt. So I'm a little disappointed here.
TEXT> We're going to only have a little bit about that. I just the teachers are working so hard to make it feel as normal as possible, but it's not when I have to hunt down a nurse for, you know, bloody noses, Tylenol. You know, that's not normal. This just. I know we've been focusing a lot on the elementary schools, and I just don't want you to forget about everybody else out there. We are doing the best that we can. And I really think that the students understand that. But it's not okay. It's not okay.  I wanted to see I remember when you started to introduce the public comment period.  You were modeling it somewhat after the city council meetings, and I just wanted to reiterate or at the city council meetings, you have that that time for public comment. And then there is agenda time that if you are the public comment part is for non-agenda items. So I really wish that we would have that time because a lot of times we don't know what those questions are. I know others have mentioned that, but I just wanted to reinforce that. I think that would be an excellent, appropriate idea. So thank. You.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[R16872-87] Nick Koloski | Public commenter, Ward 3; Claremont city councilor (as announced) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Nikolsky Ward three. Sorry, I didn't want to be the person that comes up several times, but, there there are a few things at prior meetings that have been asked by the public, and I might have missed an update myself.  I know  I've heard questions about it, but one would be I think the public needs an answer on the metal detectors that were removed from a school. The update on that, and then the building that was purchased itself to bring students back in district  on Maple Ave. So wearing my other hat as an elected official in the community, I have had people call repeatedly neighbors as well asking why that never went to planning board or neighbor notifications. And I know that some of that stuff doesn't need to occur because it doesn't follow the same rules. But there's some stuff that just keeps getting asked, and it'd be nice if the, the board could address those, those questions.  The other one would be just like a financial update overall.  I, I think about this one often, so it'd be nice to have an update on that, that property. My opinion, I look at a school bus, you know, has to go on the ballot to be voted to purchase, but the building for 250, I believe, did not.
NEXT> Nick Koloski: And that's in the circumstance where you have the authority to do that would be under good financial times. All all signal go to make that purchase outside of going

[R16872-88] Nick Koloski | Public commenter, Ward 3 (as announced) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Nick Koloski: this one often, so it'd be nice to have an update on that, that property. My opinion, I look at a school bus, you know, has to go on the ballot to be voted to purchase, but the building for 250, I believe, did not.
TEXT> And that's in the circumstance where you have the authority to do that would be under good financial times. All all signal go to make that purchase outside of going to a public vote. And the more that,  you know layers to the onion, it looks like every indication was we didn't have that ability or shouldn't have done it. So I just would like a real update on where that stands. The money that's going into it, the work that still needs to occur, and how many students have actually been brought back in currently and what the plan will be. So thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So. Just so you know, Miss Kennedy and I actually spoke about this. We are we are going to be getting a number of these items back on the agenda,

[R16872-110] Bradley Moulton | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Could you say your word for me?
TEXT> Yeah. Ward three, I'm Bradley Moulton. So I'm going to go a little slower. I've been getting a little practice lately with these meetings. She mentioned the bus stops. As of right now, there is a vote or a vote that passed on bus stop limits per child.  That needs to be removed immediately. Doesn't necessarily affect me, but it it did, and I worked my way around it. But now people are going to have a problem with that. It'd be really great to see that removed  as a whole because it doesn't make any sense. I don't, especially because, you know, we live in a community where I've come and spoke with administrators on a number of occasions where the first thing they'll do is tell you how we're impoverished and we're divorced, and there's drug addicts and there's prison kids. You know, they'll throw people under the bus for any excuse in this district. And I've experienced that up to this point. And it does seem that more, more bus stops is really quite needed.
NEXT> Unidentified: I just ask a clarifying question. Sorry to interrupt. Bus stop limits. Are you talking about the mileage to the school?

[R16872-112] Bradley Moulton | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: I just ask a clarifying question. Sorry to interrupt. Bus stop limits. Are you talking about the mileage to the school?
TEXT> No, not one per child. Okay, so like I, I'm a divorced father, and, their mother gets the bus stop.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R16872-121] Bradley Moulton | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: One minute for meaning.
TEXT> It's a I'm probably going to take a little more. If anybody will yield me a little time, it'd be great. The 5.1 million deficit is kind of like a a workaround of numbers because you've had cuts. You had over $2 million in cuts last year. You've had over, you know, the 3 million this year. So there's $10 million missing. You really need to clarify that. Like, like really get in front of it with the definition that's clear. You know, good enough for a six year old can really understand it.  I went to open house.  I had three different teachers tell me that the classrooms are out of control in the middle school. Completely unacceptable. Period. Kids are out of class too much. You know, getting excuses. Excuses from the teachers that, you know, they're worried about receiving emails from parents or whatnot, as if the rules aren't being followed. It's. It's not going well. It's definitely not.
NEXT> Unidentified: Going well. 10s.

[R16872-137] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: are making sure other policies are updated. We're constantly looking at a variety of different things that need addressing, and to kind of put those failsafe in there, too. So we appreciate all your support because there are some things that need to be fixed.
TEXT> Absolutely.  Let me see what else we had. We'll be getting into more official report getting into soon. Back to the academic sharing out the data  of what's happening for students. I mean, that's why we're all here to for the education piece. I know there's a lot going on, and I don't want to belabor a lot of different things. We want to get to the personnel reports and all of the things that typically wouldn't be in a board meeting.  We're hoping to get into that. Full disclosure we are working on. I know the psych interns. We are not ready to go into everything tonight, but I'm putting it out there and I'm told the board as well, we're putting out everybody else. We're getting requests right to knows we have a fair. We are going to be sharing every employee what salary, what position, what insurance, things like that, so that everybody doesn't have to come up and say, who's going, what were there? We're putting it all out there. So in the next couple weeks, we'll be getting that for the next meeting and be ready to show you. We'll have it on the website, a link to that and where it is. And so you you can find out you're entitled to that. So absolutely we'll be sharing that too. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Tell that. Yeah.

[R16872-152] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: and enjoy the rest of the meeting. And after that, we will actually have a final motion for someone to ask if they would like to appoint a member. We'll do that, hopefully by alphabetical order to and it has to be a majority vote.
TEXT> Rules the day. Okay, so I'll read a mr. love letter first. I've been a property owner and a taxpayer in Claremont for over 25 years. My two children grew up in our school system and graduated in 2020. Both are successful, with one graduating from Saint Lawrence University and one successfully employed in the trades. I'm a retired teacher and recently retired from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs in White River junction, Vermont. I proudly spent the last three years of my teaching career at Maple Avenue, with the last two as president of the Sri, which is the educators union. During that time, I was part of a great team that successfully negotiated a well-deserved three year contract, bringing much, much needed financial relief to our dedicated teachers. During my eight years at the VA hospital in White River junction, I rose through the ranks starting as a medical support assistant, was promoted to administrative officer and radiology, and then to patient advocate and finally Patient Experience officer supervising the patient advocate office. All this to say that while we cannot rewrite, excuse me, rewrite yesterday's news, we can influence what is written about us tomorrow. And I want to be part of that success  as a member of our school board. Thank you.  Mr. Putnam is well known to our community, and he had an abbreviated letter. But many of us know and many in the community know Mr. Putnam as well.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Dear Claremont School Board, my purpose in applying for the vacant seat on the Claremont School Board is to offer my sincerity and experience to the Claremont School Board and

[R16872-159] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah sure. They don't know.
TEXT> Sorry for that.  No no it's okay. So the first question asked about the experience in Claremont. So as I stated in my letter, I've been a property owner and taxpayer in Claremont for over 25 years.  My two kids went through the school system and again, both successful retired teacher.  I'm going to move on to number two. That one is pretty brief. Number two asks about can you talk about your thoughts on how to improve public schools. So in the interest of brevity, I came up with sort of my big three, if you will. First, it's my belief that public education cannot realize its full potential without some sort of what I call a triangular compact. That's to say, each triangle has roles and responsibilities and expectations. So in my mind that school would have a role the parent caregiver and then the students. And I'll give you a very simplified explanation when I'm talking about and again, not all inclusive. So for a school provide a high quality, effective learning environment. The parent helped set a positive tone for learning with the child and the student.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Ask questions when I'm not sure about a lesson or assignment. Second, community engagement and celebration continue to be vitally important. And fortunately, in this community, we already have a

[R16872-162] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: board member. And I'm going to get to the nitty gritty of the question. It says, given the restrictions and the need to have discussions regarding issues that members care about, how would you, as a new member, participate in important and non divisive debate?
TEXT> An important trait of a high functioning team is respect, and one way to model that is through active listening. Or they used to remind my own children and my students listening to learn and not listening to respond. I believe it's vital as a school board body, every voice is heard and decisions made collectively that may be opposed to one's own be seen as not personal and to we remember why we are here over 201 years ago. A little history lesson during Claremont's town meeting. And we were a town back then. Reverend Jonathan Nye introduced this preamble and resolution, which was adopted. And I'm going to read just a little bit because it's applicable today, whereas a prudent and judicious regulation and management of our schools is highly necessary and important for the instruction and benefit of our rising generation, as well as the peace and prosperity prosperity of the town. Resolved, that a committee be appointed to superintend. And there's much more of that, but I'll leave you to consult. Otis Waits, 1895 history of the Town of Claremont.  But in short, the message was, remember why we're here. Okay. The next question asked, how do you support school board decisions that are not philosophically or intellectually  aligned with yours?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I thought about this question, and it brought me back to August of 2005, when Jackie Gillette. And not to pick on you, Miss Lewis, but you'll remember she brought

[R16872-163] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: I'll leave you to consult. Otis Waits, 1895 history of the Town of Claremont. But in short, the message was, remember why we're here. Okay. The next question asked, how do you support school board decisions that are not philosophically or intellectually aligned with yours?
TEXT> I thought about this question, and it brought me back to August of 2005, when Jackie Gillette. And not to pick on you, Miss Lewis, but you'll remember she brought forward rolled out School Improvement teams as a member of one of those original school improvement teams. We were provided a copy of Lincoln's Five Dysfunctions of a team. That book has helped me through the last 20 years. And so when one belongs to a team or in this case of board, I operate with this belief. Once a collective decision has been made and my responsibility and obligation as a member of the team or board is to support that decision, both in public and in private. I've been involved in many decisions and meetings where I've given my opinion, my reasonings, and the outcome didn't go my way. My duty upon leaving those meetings was the thumbs up, the collective decision and publicly support it. And as a side note, much of what I learned about teamwork has come from over 33 years of marriage. That's what it is, right? The next question asked what personal skills or attributes or perspectives will you bring to the board? Well, I think I bring a rather unique perspective to the board, not only as a citizen for the past 25 years and again, the parent of two children at journey through our school. What I'm going to share with you next, I have their permission to share.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: You know, special ed often gets a bad rap, but for my twins, it was essential. Thanks to the Claremont School District, my kids were early identified with speech and

[R16872-164] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: I bring a rather unique perspective to the board, not only as a citizen for the past 25 years and again, the parent of two children at journey through our school. What I'm going to share with you next, I have their permission to share.
TEXT> You know, special ed often gets a bad rap, but for my twins, it was essential. Thanks to the Claremont School District, my kids were early identified with speech and language problems. My kids started off their careers with IEPs and graduated off those IEPs. Each child took a different route. My daughter took the college prep route. My son went to the trades, both successful. My daughter is currently finishing her master's and my son absolutely loves the trades he's working in APD. Additionally,  I taught and retired in this district and spent my last two years serving as the president of the society and it was an honor. In addition to all that, I was a member of two committees. I served as a member of the committee for the Walpole, Walpole, New Hampshire school districts, and in 2014, I served as the co-chair of the accreditation team for the Kent, Massachusetts schools. The next question deals with schools are in crisis, and how would you improve the credibility of the school board?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: So I'm going to give you a little work on this one. So for me, it's continued accessible and emphasis on accessible communication, not only through meetings, but it's important,

[R16872-165] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: for the Walpole, Walpole, New Hampshire school districts, and in 2014, I served as the co-chair of the accreditation team for the Kent, Massachusetts schools. The next question deals with schools are in crisis, and how would you improve the credibility of the school board?
TEXT> So I'm going to give you a little work on this one. So for me, it's continued accessible and emphasis on accessible communication, not only through meetings, but it's important, I think, that we create, own and push out information through an easy to navigate web interface. One stop shopping for everything to do with the school district. Now I'm going to share with you the website address of a district I found, and I'm going to encourage you to spend more than just a passing moment looking at it. And I spent well over two hours in it. Maybe that's good. Once at this website, you're going to see an easy to use layout that includes everything from organizational charts, policies, student expectations. I can go on, but I'd rather you explore it. And additionally, the site is up to date and current and we are not. I want you while you're there to check out their newsletter that he put out, and it's important to note they also have a dedicated communications staff member, so that helps. So the website address very easy WWWDV is in Victor tom.org wsdvt.org. And I'm going to give you a little background on this city. The city is a school district that quote unquote not rich by any means.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: In the space of about one square mile, there's about 7000 people. It's from most densely populated city, and somewhere around 20 languages are spoken into public schools. Now, I'm

[R16872-167] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: community, programs like Hallowell, and the myriad number of opportunities we saw for us before we decided to have a family. And on February 15th, 2000, we became homeowners here. We've raised our kids here, and the school district did very well by my children.
TEXT> And while we don't have the biggest or the best house in the city for tax purposes,  our place is the only one my kids have known as home and hopefully cold temps, snow or taxes won't change that. And I'm telling you, I'm a cardinal. The next question is very similar to an early one said how comfortable are you having to support V accountable for actions and decisions you may have been opposed to? So as questions very similar to an earlier one asking about supporting decisions that may not align with my views. And I'll just restate that that we, the board are a team and all voices are heard, perspectives recognized and acknowledged. Votes are taken. We act with one voice and one purpose, and again remembering why we're here to provide a free and appropriate education at a price we can afford. The last question  asked about setting aside personal biases to fulfill your duty to advocate for sustainable public education. And I'm just going to read my my answer verbatim. So you're correct that we all struggle with personal biases, whether it's deciding what food to eat, where to buy groceries, who we associate with, etc. but being part of a successful team marriage or in this case a board is one of give or take, give and take.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Excuse me. Tuning out and turning down those biases and realizing you won't always get your way. And at the end of the day, you're part of a team or

[R16872-188] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Mr. Madden. Miss Hopkins, we're under a lot of pressure with educational freedom accounts. Would you give us your position on that, please?
TEXT> My kids did very well in public education, and the Claremont School District did very well with my kids. I'm a public education advocate. Period.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you, Mr. Patron. My question is we're going to be struggling with moving forward. Is prioritizing the budget to focus, unfortunately on wants needs instead of wants, and being

[R16872-208] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant school board seat (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Project, if you could.
TEXT> We purchased our home at the end of 2019 and moved in in February of 2020. An inauspicious time. As you heard from the letter, I have served on several boards in the city, including the MC board here, and I host a candidate show. I've served on several of the city Council's boards, and I move on to hear a shop lead at the Claremont Makerspace. I participated in the administration's title for committee, where I used my data skills to assist them in understanding the survey data they had collected. And one of the things that I gained from that was an understanding of the IT infrastructure that is currently deployed. In examining the IT infrastructure, I flagged and reported broken links on the website. I have suggested policies to the school board. I worked with the administration on the adoption of the states zero to Entrepreneur Learn Everywhere program, and I think that's I've been trying to make that work for two years. I continue to tutor at the alternative high school right on the other side of the building. Here I have supplied information to the administration about commercial AI tools that are available that are geared specifically to the needs of the education market, with a sensitivity towards the nature of the data, the student data that we have.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: I co-founded Education Options about a year and a half ago. This is a 501 C three volunteer organization. None of us are paid. We maintain a website where we

[R16872-209] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant school board seat (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kevin Tyson: side of the building. Here I have supplied information to the administration about commercial AI tools that are available that are geared specifically to the needs of the education market, with a sensitivity towards the nature of the data, the student data that we have.
TEXT> I co-founded Education Options about a year and a half ago. This is a 501 C three volunteer organization. None of us are paid. We maintain a website where we aggregate information about education options across the state, all types of educational options that we can find, public schools, public charter schools, private schools, home schools, learning pods.  Off the top of my head, I can't remember all that we have. The website is highly navigable. So it's you know, we are geared towards getting information towards parents. So the idea is that you can come we have a map so you can see where you are and what the options are around you. You can slice and dice them so that if you're looking for just public schools or if you're looking for a particular kind of parochial school, you can find exactly what you're looking for. We don't make any money on this. We don't take money from the providers. We don't take money from the parents. In addition to maintaining the website, we have fairs. We used to call them expos. We're going to have one on Monday across the street where we brought together again providers and parents and students so that they can make informed choices on their own.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: I have run for City council in the past, and I serve as the vice chair of the Sullivan County GOP Committee, and I have served as a ballot clerk

[R16872-215] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant school board seat (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kevin Tyson: intend to keep on doing regardless what happens with the appointment tonight, the only employee the board can direct or evaluate is the superintendent. My work with the administration to date has relied solely on persuasion, not force. And this will continue to be so.
TEXT> Daily operation of the schools and evaluation of employees is not within the scope of board authority. The power of the board is collective and not individual. Each member has one vote, and action by the board is decided by the majority of those present and voting. The primary goal of the board is to ensure students have access to the best public education, which is why I will continue my work to improve educational outcomes as a citizen and not as a board member. How comfortable? Am I having to support and be accountable for actions and decisions I may have been opposed to? As a board member, I will totally supported. My goal is to employ by considerable powers and persuasive persuasion to get the board to do the right thing. Every member of the board enters the role with bias. For example, you have a child in the district, feel a personal connection to educators, believe taxes are too high, or that public education should be radically reformed. How would you set aside your bias to fulfill your duty to advocate for the best, sustainable public education the Claremont District can provide?
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: I have a hard time with this question, because my understanding of the term bias is that it means a disproportionate weight in favor of or against an idea or

[R16872-216] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant school board seat (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kevin Tyson: the district, feel a personal connection to educators, believe taxes are too high, or that public education should be radically reformed. How would you set aside your bias to fulfill your duty to advocate for the best, sustainable public education the Claremont District can provide?
TEXT> I have a hard time with this question, because my understanding of the term bias is that it means a disproportionate weight in favor of or against an idea or a thing,  usually in a way that is inaccurate, close minded, prejudicial, or unfair. I combat bias by relying on facts and reason to develop informed opinions. None of my opinions are cast in stone. They are all subject to question and challenge at all times. And so as a board member, do you support and find value in public education? Support for public education isn't neutral. It's a slogan that protects a system, not kids. Real support  means funding education that works wherever it happens. And that's it. And now I can see that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are there any questions from the board? Mr. Howard.

[R16872-226] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant school board seat (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And also in one section of your article, you talk about the blunt truth and you say that, one fit public education. I hope I'm presenting it accurately. It's not knowable, it's negligent. So would you please address that statement as well as efforts, please?
TEXT> Yes. Okay. So for us, in terms of the F A's, neither the board nor the administration has any impact on this. It's up to the state. I have problems with efforts the way they are currently implemented. I would like to see funding follow students and if do not do that, they create extra funding and extra burdens on the taxpayer. And now in terms of the second, could you save the second question again?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: It's part of the article that you had written and it said that Claremont doesn't have a deficit of care, it has a deficit of fit. And then you ended

[R16872-254] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: exactly right. We we don't have the right number even. And. There's still people in the administration that, in my opinion, have to go. And I think bringing in new people with a more private sector and more accountability would really help our school district.
TEXT> I would like to speak in favor of Mr. Laviolette.  In addition to Mr. Putnam putting his support toward him. Mr.. Focused on students, and we are here as advocates for students.  He's been involved in the studies, which is very important for a secondary school. He frequently went back to remembering why we are here and when we have to make difficult decisions, we need to remember why we are here. We are advocates for students. He talked about community assisting us because we do need help. He had a global overview, talked about actively listening and engaging and creating that compact of parent, student and teacher. And I was very impressed with what he what he had to say. And I believe he would be an asset to this board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.

[R16872-296] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: to participate, to listen tonight. But at the same time, we also need to put our oxygen masks on, like I alluded to before, and give folks a breather for a few moments. And I know it's at the, you know, behest of the families.
TEXT> And that's something I like truly begging for forgiveness because it's not something that we'd like to do, but it would allow. So on the 7th of October and the 8th of October, all of the elementary schools in the Claremont School District will be closed. So bluff, Maple and nerd, the ninth and the 10th.  The ninth would be all SA6, including unity, because they also had a professional development day that day already the ninth, and also include the middle school and high school so they can have a chance to get some planning done, meet for professional development, get some required trainings in, and unfortunately, things that were delayed because of the August turmoil that we weren't able to complete to the time. The 10th would be a school day for unity. And I clarify that was my mistake in putting it out there. It was actually just unity would only have off on the night. The 10th would also be though, the all of the Claremont schools and again with the hopeful that part for the ninth and 10th high school students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: If they're looking for community service, if they're also siblings, they can help support the families. And so we know the biggest part, I would say, was the seventh and

[R16872-297] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: mistake in putting it out there. It was actually just unity would only have off on the night. The 10th would also be though, the all of the Claremont schools and again with the hopeful that part for the ninth and 10th high school students.
TEXT> If they're looking for community service, if they're also siblings, they can help support the families. And so we know the biggest part, I would say, was the seventh and eighth, because that would be unfortunately, in middle school. And high school students would not necessarily be available to support that. So we understand it's a big ask. And I do, you know, in support for the board, for the calendar approval and looking at that, and then obviously we are also looking to see if we could wave a couple of the days for the requirement because of the  nature of our, you know, emergency situation and things to that would need to go before the state board that I could submit before the October 10th under so ninth deadline. And so we can get into that and to see if any of the days would be waived from the Department of Education, and we wouldn't have to make those two days up. We already have one day. The 10th was already half a day. So it's actually only a day and a half because it was already a half day on the calendar.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so again, I know it's a big ask, but we have some plans that would allow for moving. And so it's two days of packing up for the faculty

[R16872-298] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the Department of Education, and we wouldn't have to make those two days up. We already have one day. The 10th was already half a day. So it's actually only a day and a half because it was already a half day on the calendar.
TEXT> And so again, I know it's a big ask, but we have some plans that would allow for moving. And so it's two days of packing up for the faculty and staff and then two days of unpacking. We have some. Steve Holtz has done a great job of really working with our our custodial staff, with you Hall, and really trying to secure. We already have some packing crates that have arrived at bluff and, you know, shout out to all the bluff folks. And I know that this is not something that anybody really wanted. But this is the situation that we're looking at right now. And so this would allow for some time for everybody to get in. And it does make it a little bit longer weekend. We're also looking at some supports for food services. We're looking at supports for Anima. They've been helpful offering some opportunities for families to be able to participate in a program that they would provide.  We're looking at  opportunities for staff and their children and things too. So we're really trying to make sure it's recovering all bases. Like I said, I did meet with the fire department and police departments and trying to make sure somebody had had a question about the per occupancy as well over that.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And we don't exceed any occupancy requirements and things. And I invite my elementary colleagues to add on to anything else that I might have overlooked right now and not

[R16872-336] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Building Construction Program, a $500 Lavallee gift card. Ken and Rob schlub, $50 Home Depot gift card for plumbing Claremont Glassworks Matt Steel $1,000 gift card to Lavalle for the building construction program. We have a digital gift card from Harbor Freight for building construction.
TEXT> $500 gift card from John Lambert for the culinary program. We previously accepted three hospital beds for our medical assistant program. There is a $5,000 whole school donation. Mr.. David Putnam and Andy, thank you. And that was given to the alumni association, continuing your generosity even to this day. Thank you. Multiple hair ties, containers, reusable go go containers from the olive oil family for the culinary program. Multiple, medical equipment supplies from Sarah, a student's mom for the medical assistant program. Snacks and tissues from the family. Multiple other items for folks to practice with. From Sally Brenner and Lisa Davenport, such as a human heart anatomy puzzle. Also received set up blood pressure cuffs from the residency program for the Medical Assistance program. $100 gift card from Michelle. Don't have the last name written down for the culinary program. We previously accepted IV poles and trucks and catheters and gauze from Mr. Kowalski for medical assisting. Thank you for the medical assistance program. Another $500 check from Norma Limoges. $500 check from Ron and Kelly  for plumbing supplies. 500. Check given to the alumni association from Daryl for the plumbing program.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: $2,500 on account at levels from the ballot. Valley building supply for the building construction program 1000 check for all programs from the Croydon Ladies Auxiliary care of Sandi Beard.

[R16872-732] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's a good idea.
TEXT> I amend my motion to include policy. IHEA requirements for children with specific learning disabilities and to adopt policy. I am District special Education Policy and procedures manual.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Do I have to second that?

[R16881-37] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (asks what administra | 2025-10-06
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: you. Sure. We're going to another minute to so. And then the third one is Samantha miller who's an HR. She was effective October 1st. She gives her notice that day. And she's been done since October 1st. So we're right now in HR department.
TEXT> So so how many folks are we. We only have as far as administrative level staff. True administrative administrative level staffers. Mr. Angel and yourself. Yes. Is it October 20th? And then Jessica McLeod right now is sort of acting assistant superintendent in the student services director. Are we going to talk about any of these positions,  none of these positions this evening. Correct. At the meeting they were not planned to be on the agenda. And we can put them on the agenda for the next female member. What I'm wondering is the  possibility of because saw is changing its nature as of July 1st, perhaps looking at contracting services for the rest of this year. And that will give the Claremont Board the opportunity to,  have people apply starting for good. So I run if possible. I don't know as possible. That's a new discussion, right? I'm just just throwing it out as the the the yes, the contracted piece. Yes. But the idea of what happens after July 1st is extremely good, right? Yeah. You're right.  I think it's almost appropriate we start talking about the way it's going to be, because we might be planning a planning ahead as planned on board.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: The budget season is coming up. Yes. And Mr. Angel and I read that, too. These are hot off the press is really say. So I want to make sure

[R16882-55] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. That 15.
TEXT> Now and then there's some districts that that there's actually one district that has zero. So every transfer. But that district has 40 kids. So so they're very involved in a lot of things there. But that's a place where the board can adjust management responsibilities and oversight and so forth. So I'm not going to spend much time on that, but you just sort of an example of,  you know, how at least under Hampshire law and basically most of the most of the states, there's a couple of outliers, most of the states, that's basically how it works. School board legislative functions. So I mentioned that  virtually  I'm not virtually all, but well over 90% of your decision making and work is in a legislative capacity. You're making,  policy decisions, which are, in effect, local laws that apply to your school district. They have the same force. Of course, there's a boarding it to, you know, we all took civics, but, you know, they're subordinate to state regulations and state laws and state constitution and the same in some areas relative to federal, regulations, laws and constitution.
NEXT> Will Phillips: So what are what are policies? And I'm going to move through here and start with that one there. Big P and little P. So most of the time when

[R16882-70] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: has to stay where homework is to be accessed and how it is to be assessed. The formal language used to be you had to have a whole homework policy, and the homework policy had to describe how the homework related to the grading system.
TEXT> And, you know, obviously that it shouldn't you can't have a standalone, you know, one size fits all policy there because you have kindergarten kids and you have high school kids.  So we we have some districts, one K through 12 districts has a policy. No homework, no mandatory homework. You can you can make it voluntary. It can't be mandatory. And it can't be part of your grade that there are no longer.  Right.  But but then on the side there was a district four was one of my, ADHD child's districts that had a policy that I think it was something like ten minutes for every grade that you were in. Yeah. So first grade, ten minutes, second grade. Yeah. Well, I have three sons, and I can tell you that, you know, one of them would have taken ten minutes and the other one would have taken ten days for the exact same project. You know, so but that's up to the school board. And. But do you does the board, is the board really the, the best  entity to be deciding on a class by class level? You know, how do you what about homework and gym or homework. And so anyway but a lot those policies we might say,  you know, the superintendent which  shall ensure that each building has a, you know, a procedure for determining how homework is to be graded.  But something, something to that effect. And we haven't changed our policy.
NEXT> Will Phillips: Oh, no, we did. I think you know that. I have a draft that's ready to come out. But, so those are just examples of places where sometimes it is

[R16882-71] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: anyway but a lot those policies we might say, you know, the superintendent which shall ensure that each building has a, you know, a procedure for determining how homework is to be graded. But something, something to that effect. And we haven't changed our policy.
TEXT> Oh, no, we did. I think you know that. I have a draft that's ready to come out.  But,  so those are just examples of places where sometimes it is better left, you know, unspecified at that level. However, it sounds like, you know, you're running into a problem where you do those things and then you trust it, they're done, and you have no feedback as to whether they are, except for aggregate information that you might perceive in the form of complaints, where, you know, all heck breaks loose. So. Let's see. So back to, you know, so what are policies? They, you know, they advise the students, family, staff and the larger community of legal and district requirements, expectations, opportunities, procedures.  So you have when you look at your policy manual, I think there are 12 sections and they're largely,  you know, fixed on a particular group of people or type of policy. So you have a where we're tending to put, you know, discrimination things, you know, really big, big, large issues be as board internal procedures  or, you know, how you govern yourselves.  That's another place, by the way, going back to, you know, what state law says and doesn't say the only real place where you have guidance as to how boards are supposed to operate is the right to know what.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And then, of course, one eight and 974, which is your public comment requirement. So that's the only one that's kind of out there somewhere. But all of those things,

[R16882-167] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: late, you know, all the way through the fall. And just just a couple of other examples of where you you don't have the right to just say what you want to say is confidential information that you obtain as part of your official function.
TEXT> So if you have taken the confidential information in your official function, then mum's the word.  If you heard it from your kid when you came home from school, that's different. Or if you read it in the newspaper, that's different.  And then the at the other one, which is very, you know, it's related is when something happens in nonpublic session, the only thing that comes out of nonpublic session are the minutes and any, you know, document that that is required to be or some action that's required is a as a function of or as a product of that nonpublic session. You know, something has to happen.  So  those are the only things that come out of nonpublic session. You're not allowed to talk to your spouse, to  the public. What have you, other than that you generally have your rights of free expression, meaning that, you know, if you disagree with something the board did, you're allowed to  express that opinion. We we think it's not always useful and helpful to having a good working relationship within a board. But sometimes, you know, something is so important and, and, you know, fundamental to your beliefs that, you know, you think you need to speak out and that's okay.  So board and board member functions relative to specific staff and students, it gets a little bit complicated.
NEXT> Will Phillips: So this is really when you've got complaints about people, about individual students or individual employees, staff members, you know, your as a board member, you can't solve the problem

[R16882-168] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: you know, something is so important and, and, you know, fundamental to your beliefs that, you know, you think you need to speak out and that's okay. So board and board member functions relative to specific staff and students, it gets a little bit complicated.
TEXT> So this is really when you've got complaints about people, about individual students or individual employees, staff members, you know, your as a board member, you can't solve the problem by yourself. You just can't do that.  If you don't have the authority to do anything really in that context, except wait until it gets to the school board. If it ever gets to the school board, that doesn't mean that you just say, sorry, not my problem and hang on the phone on that constituent have called you. How can you help them? Well, you can help them in two ways. Number one, you get just enough information so that you can meaningfully pass that on to the person who's responsible. So that's your superintendent.  It may be that, you know, it goes to the principal. I like to say everything goes through the superintendent simply because guess what? It's the superintendent is supposed to be making sure that the principal is doing the principal's job. And if the superintendent doesn't know about it, then you know, how long does it stay hidden? You probably you might have lost it in the news because of things that were going.  It was a little earlier, but there was a  big event that happened in another,  district or this year, and everybody seemed to know about it except for the superintendent.
NEXT> Will Phillips: Superintendent is now the former superintendent and really didn't, you know, didn't have any information whatsoever about the thing that had happened. So making sure that the superintendent is aware

[R16882-169] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: probably you might have lost it in the news because of things that were going. It was a little earlier, but there was a big event that happened in another, district or this year, and everybody seemed to know about it except for the superintendent.
TEXT> Superintendent is now the former superintendent and really didn't, you know, didn't have any information whatsoever about the thing that had happened.  So making sure that the superintendent is aware of the problem at an early stage, even if it's not at the superintendent level, it does provide enough information that if if things do go south, then, you know, you get to look at the superintendent and say, hey, how come you know what was supposed to happen? Didn't happen. The so that's you. So when I say just enough information. So knowing okay, so the complaint is about, you know, a what one student did in a teacher's class.  So you need to know the, the what class it was the teacher. And you need to know the name of the parent who's making the complaint. You don't necessarily need to know that name of the other person, because guess what? And that's going to fall on the principal, the teacher to, to, you know, look into in the first instance. So what's the second way you can help. The second way you can help is oh, let me back up. So the question so you're asking the question, so what what class is it. And students name. That's almost all you need to know.
NEXT> Will Phillips: Or when maybe the date it happened. What you don't need to know was was anybody else there? Then? Anyone else see it? Have they had problems in the past?

[R16882-196] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: and she'll have all powers necessary to make sure that something to that effect. But then when it comes to hearing the, it serves as the hearing body for dismissals, non-renewal, and and usually level three or step three grievances in most collective bargaining agreements.
TEXT> We'll talk I think. Is it next? Yes. Okay. And so now we'll talk a little bit about the quasi judicial function. So this is when the board is is basically the judge and jury. Various statutes, contracts and even in some instances the board's own policies. The board will act in a quasi judicial capacity. And really what that means is there's  a specific event or instance or issue that involves a specific person, and that person has the right to request or demand a hearing before the board. And and when that happens, then your function as a quasi judicial body takes place. And it's very different than legislative,  in several ways. But so for students, the most common  expulsion, hopefully you don't see very many of those  manifest hardship. Those are ones that, you know, most districts see from time to time. And then you might have others by policy. So, for instance, you might have an early enrollment policy that allows,  you know, a parent to specifically request review.  And then for employees, the  obvious ones I just mentioned dismissal, non-renewal, labor grievances.  So when when you've got the hearing issue trigger, the board is the one that's responsible for due process. And so when you think about due process the most, you know, the the two easiest points that jump to mind, you know, let's say it's your interests that are at stake.
NEXT> Will Phillips: What do you expect with due process. You expect a fair and impartial judge in the room, and the ability to hear and challenge the evidence and testimony that's being

[R16896-10] Molly Tremblay | Public commenter, Ward 1; early childhood educator (as announced; not  | 2025-10-15
PREV> Molly Tremblay: Mr. Matt Angel for his tireless work and dedication as a consultant brought in when the crisis arose. You stayed steadfast, putting in hard, long hours to manage this complex financial situation, crunching and organizing a mess of numbers that would make my head spin.
TEXT> Thank you. Second, I would like to note and stress my primary message the families and citizens of Claremont are facing real struggles. My field of work has changed significantly. It is no longer just about teaching children their colors and numbers. It is turned into supporting the whole family unit. I hear their concerns, difficulties and struggles every single day. Just like this week, I had three separate families approached my staff and I distraught and say, my child doesn't have a lunch. We don't have any food. I can't afford to go shopping and I don't have anything else. These families are literally making decisions between keeping a roof over their head or putting food on the table. While these struggles are real, so is our Brasiliense as student Eliana Girard perfectly encapsulates. We are Claremont. This is our standing ovation. This is our roar. And against all odds, we're ready to play on. I see this community. It is one that rise in time of need and will always come together to support the future. I believe that the creative solutions and continue community support, we will flourish. But I must ask, how much more can we ask them to carry?
NEXT> Molly Tremblay: What is enough? Enough? I hope the school board understands that these families and citizens of Claremont cannot take or give much more. I urge the board to confirm that

[R16896-28] Wayne Hemingway | NH State Representative and Claremont City Councilor; public commenter | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Wayne Hemingway.
TEXT> Ward. One, state rep. City councilor. Have child and middle school. So yesterday. We. I. Attended the Senate and  the joint committee between the Senate and the state rep,  with Ruth Ward as chairperson of that committee.  There has been a HB 292 that was that was put out. She had HB it was a different one. But Ladd Representative Ladd had did HB 292 amendment and  which seems like it was a pretty good amendment. It kind of  offers the opportunity for the loan. Revolving loan for the Claremont district. Is is the purpose of this the. Mister Angel and Miss Kennedy were there.  They presented a along with the attorney. They presented quite a PowerPoint presentation on how we got there and everything that went on.  I would say that the response from the members of the committee were, were surprising that how we got there.  I think there was a lot of support in that bill. However, the bottom line is  you have to remember that we're not there to have the state to take and get us out of this hole. We got us in this hole.  I'm not saying that this this loan or this HB 292 amendment isn't good as long as we use it appropriately and we don't. If it gets passed that, we don't abuse it.
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: That's the main concern. So the purpose of this is really just being able to take the, the money from upcoming, funds and using it currently in this fiscal year

[R16896-71] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: then I can get into my report, if that's okay. Yeah. Okay. McLeod, who's our acting director of student services right now. I'm asking you to come on up, please, and share the report that you have presented about the student technologies. My name is.
TEXT> Jessica McLeod. I am the assistant director for student support services.  In the absence of having a director of student services and standing in and reporting out on the school psych interns. To add clarity as to what the school psych function is, school sites in this district are primarily evaluators.  That means that they assist with assessments to help students in need of students in need of special ed services.  They also can be involved in direct student intervention, such as clinical mental health services,  consultation with parents and teachers. They also can assist with 504 planning.  And  also do district wide initiatives like multi-tiered systems of support in our district. As I mentioned before, given the number of evaluations we're doing there, primarily evaluators.  Right now, Claremont has one licensed school psychologist working as a full time evaluator.  This role for school sites in the state of New Hampshire is a critical shortage area. This is also nationwide, which has been part of the reason it's been it's been difficult to hire, for this position. Best practice. And according to the National Association of School Psychologist.  For every 5 to 700 students, you should have about one school psychologist. Currently, we have about 1500 students enrolled in the district. School psychologists are responsible for evaluating students from preschool age. So those age 3 to 5  all the way up to 12th grade. Evaluations also include those that are out of district.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: So students that we have placed at various, out of district placements and those that are at Claremont Christian and charter schools. So things like are places like Riverview Academy,

[R16896-92] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: have to, in tandem, make sure that we're our IEPs are shored up at the same time. The other piece of this I think that's important is trying to evaluations the ones that are billable, you have to the student also has to have Medicaid.
TEXT> The, the parent has to be willing to kind of  identify that the student has or willing to share that the child has Medicaid and also sign off, that they're willing to let us build build them.  None of our initial evaluations are billable. They're called pre care evaluations. So that is problematic.  The other piece is Medicaid has made it very difficult. They're really strict in,  what they do as a someone who is a psychologist that's able to bill, you have to have that APA accredited accreditation to bill for Medicaid right now. And these psychologists in the spring will have that the APA accreditation. But they don't have that right now. So they are not billable right now. But there's more nuance and difficulties with our billing anyway because of the shortage with special educators. So I just want to point that out. They will have their NPI numbers and be APA accredited in the spring. So the hope is that we would be able to bill for more services right now with our one school psychologist. We can bill for some of the triannual evaluations.  The other piece going back to the counseling, which would be the other service counseling.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: This district is a beast and it's its own position. We have struggled to hire a full time clinical mental health therapist in this district for several years. And so

[R16896-93] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: So the hope is that we would be able to bill for more services right now with our one school psychologist. We can bill for some of the triannual evaluations. The other piece going back to the counseling, which would be the other service counseling.
TEXT> This district is a beast and it's its own position. We have struggled to hire a full time clinical mental health therapist in this district for several years.  And so unfortunately,  we made it was the decision was made to outsource counseling to a community provider. And because we're doing that, that service is not Medicaid billable. I will point out I spoke with,  a contract contracted service who very much understands the nuances of Medicaid. And I'm I'm very hopeful and grateful that Heidi is back. Heidi Sprague, as our Medicaid, you know, who will be picking up kind of, where we left off with Medicaid. But when I spoke to them, they said the biggest bang for our buck is our 1 to 1 rehabilitation specialists. So our paras, they're working with students that are have that have our Medicaid billable and have services that are available. So, you know, I look forward in the future to working on that specifically because I think that would be an area where we we could recoup some serious funding. The bigger issue right now is,  compliance with the free, appropriate public education without having these evaluators, who are legally obligated to have we run the risk of delayed and missed assessments, inadequacy in the quality of the assessments and or the the complexity of these  assessments that need to be done and appropriate and appropriate interventions. We run the risk of doughy complaints.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: So complaints with the Department of Ed, there is increased chances of litigation and legal fees, compensatory services. So if we can't provide evaluations in a timely manner, parents can

[R16896-99] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair, presiding (Chair Heather Whitney absent) | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Sorry.
TEXT> So what I'm hearing is, so when people hear the word enter, a lot of people think that it's a college student,  and other worlds,  maybe college student that's getting some learning experience and not getting paid. And this type of setting with psychology.  Other medical fields in terms are hired. They get some form of education while they're working and being paid. So us hiring intern psychology, for these positions and paying them is not out of the normal or out of their paid interns. And that's just.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: This is happening across the state with these interns. Yeah. Other I think. Yeah. Oh, across the country. Yeah.

[R16896-102] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: So this is not an unusual out of the norm situation?
TEXT> No, I think there just needed to be more clarity around who they actually were. Right. I think there was a miscommunication that people thought they were college students, that they were still doing their practicum. I mean, they were done with all their coursework. They were doing the same job as an as a school psychologist right now, a credentialed school psychologist.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Yeah.

[R16896-104] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-10-15
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Yeah.
TEXT> You say that they're not college kids, but it's my understanding they are college kids. They may be doing their graduate work, but they're still in school.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: So they're not doing any coursework. There.

[R16896-121] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: I don't know, Arlene, and I'm sorry.
TEXT> While they are still working toward their completion of their certification, that's new for me, so. We also have to notify parents if their children are being serviced. I would assume, including an evaluation by a non certified licensed provider. Is that happening?
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Yeah, I think when right now the interns are going to meetings with supervised staff, with myself, with Paul and parents are present. We have to have that informed consent.

[R16896-130] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Conducting the assessments, the evaluations, and then there with the certified school psychologist for the meetings that they attend right now.
TEXT> And then they won't have to be in the future. So just right now, will they get going and they start to feel comfortable and get rapport with the different building administration. They will start doing a lot of the meetings on their own, which is okay because with the knowledge that we are doing informed consent. So when I did it, I would I started off with Connie Philbin, who was a certified school psych in this district. And then as I progressed through the year, I would start to run my own meetings, and she and I would sit down and talk about this. I reviewed the students filed. This is what I'm thinking for evaluations, and we would tease that out. And then I would do the testing and we would come together to interpret the evaluation results.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And the Plymouth State program, all of their interns that are in their program are paid full salaries and benefits throughout the state.

[R16896-196] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: know the answer to, but I don't want to assume it. Once the licensing is completed, which will probably be around May. I would think at that point our interns can bill Medicaid, but it's not retroactive. It's only from May forward. Do you know.
TEXT> I'm not sure about that. And because I've heard and I need to I just don't have the answer.  So I don't want to give you. But I had heard that one of the things that we could do right now, because we didn't have a medicaid builder, was continue to keep logs and then  bill bill later, I mean, we can't bill at the end of the day, we cannot bill for an unprecedented person. Right. But we can be very strategic about what we build for. So if we know a student has Medicaid historically has been billable, we can ask Paul to do that evaluation so that we can so we can get reimbursement right now, we can do those kinds of things. My biggest concern is where the like where I've heard from other districts where the bigger money items are or like, are we have assistance where it's medically necessary, where they're like prompting and cuing for behaviors or for assisting with toileting and life skills, things that we're being really diligent about, making sure we have a pair that is  competently logging those services so that we can
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: ensure that we're billing those and not getting audited. So I think that's part of that conversation moving forward this year. I do worry, frankly, that I'm given our how

[R16896-201] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: No.
TEXT> They would. We'd have to go. If the student has not received right.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: It has to be a medical issue.

[R16896-212] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right, Mr. Kennedy.
TEXT> Anything else? No, I just wanted to reiterate. Well, I'm a little out of order in that one. You know, I appreciate that Heidi Sprague is back in the role. She and I talk. Today is her second day back. Now that she's not the secretary of bluff anymore. And so she's back in our our billing specialist role. So she is at the Dow,  and we barely have even past paths right now just because she's been so busy just trying to get caught up in things, too. But I appreciate that and welcome her back. So you were able to get her right back into the role and get right back to billing so she knows her charge.  So just I'm going to start some recognitions too. So we did move bluff into their new homes at Disney Maple. And so I do just want to put a big shout out to all the staff, the students, the families, the PTO from bluff. Everybody in the community has really stepped up and made it as smooth as possible. I know it was not an ideal situation, but I do thank you for everybody else they went to. They invited me to the sendoff event on the sixth. They stopped by. It was just amazing to witness and not that I didn't know it, but it was nice to see in person.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: The students were, you know, making the best of it. The staff were really trying to come together, and right now. So we have Mr. and Mrs. Wilson. They're splitting

[R16896-213] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-15
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: but I do thank you for everybody else they went to. They invited me to the sendoff event on the sixth. They stopped by. It was just amazing to witness and not that I didn't know it, but it was nice to see in person.
TEXT> The students were, you know, making the best of it. The staff were really trying to come together,  and  right now. So we have Mr.  and Mrs. Wilson. They're splitting their time between the two schools. I've also pulled back to help me out at CMS two for a few things, but we did identify and I apologize, a little hiccup with the bussing yesterday. So I did ask them to go over some Wilson's there in the bus in the morning and Mr. Schnitzler in the bus in the afternoon. So once we identified that we I asked them to go to the buildings, but we hadn't anticipated which was wrong on my part, the bus confusion. So I apologize on that. So hopefully it's getting smoother. But from the everybody else has said the principals and from the students as well, everybody's making the best of it and really, you know, moving forward and, you know, trying to make that a successful as possible. So I really appreciate your efforts for that. And again, to Disney and Maple Avenue schools for really just welcoming everybody in and bring them into your community.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And I know again, we have some more open houses coming up soon. And just we wanted to make sure that they were combined together. So it was a new

[R16896-217] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-15
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: add to that? I appreciate your work yesterday and sharing and there, you know, again contemplating it. So but I do appreciate Miss Name was saying about just reaching out to senators. If it's something you would like to have support on, we appreciate that.
TEXT> So again, it's not an extra loan. It's just accessing the money that we would already be getting. Let's see. So let's see if anything else. There's an article I put in there too about what was happening yesterday. So it is available online if anyone wants to watch the hearing as well. Just fundraising. I just want to do a quick shout out to Mr. Dick Gerard, Miss Carolyn LeBlanc, Mr. George Ward and so many other people. The Stevens Alumni Association is doing an amazing job. We are going to get into an ongoing report. We're just trying to gather all of that information together. The donations, the in-kind goods, services and all the money that has been coming in. It has been amazing and I appreciate it for all different areas. It's for sports, it's for drama, it's for music. So a ton of things I did want to say, we were able to get 2000 board feet of lumber that was brought in by McAllister and transported by property management. Mr. Hill at our school was able to get this donation from through Durgin and Crowell, and I appreciate all the work that they did. So the students helped unload with Miss Ferland 2000 board feet of lumber.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It was not insignificant and it was huge. And that will keep them going for a while. So the eighth graders right now are already using the wood to build

[R16896-218] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-15
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: by McAllister and transported by property management. Mr. Hill at our school was able to get this donation from through Durgin and Crowell, and I appreciate all the work that they did. So the students helped unload with Miss Ferland 2000 board feet of lumber.
TEXT> It was not insignificant and it was huge. And that will keep them going for a while. So the eighth graders right now are already using the wood to build boxes inspired by the classic six board box design. And we just thank you for this donation. It was amazing. And it really is keeping our program running. And the pine lumber is amazing. It has a fantastic wit with that cuts easily, and it's allowing the students to practice joinery and the half lap, the miter, the box joints. And so it was just an amazing donation. We really appreciate that. To  a few quick updates for personnel. So the first one I'm going to go out there, I just want to get an update for all. See you folks.  And I want to didn't want to wait till the board meeting. So the board and the community is an important update regarding the former business administrator, Mary Henry. As you know, Miss Henry has been on paid administrative leave since August 22nd, 2025. Miss Henry and the Saw are parties to a two year employment contract.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That contract contains a four cause provision for termination. Failing to follow that termination language would be a breach of a contract and could easily lead to costly litigation. We

[R16896-265] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Okay. Moving around. Technology and innovation as Mr. Small is here, we were just discussing. Will soon be completing a technology audit. We're full of audits right now, but we feel it's our due diligence to ensure that we are fiscally prudent. And determining the names and the fees for all of our technology subscriptions. We want to make sure that what we have is being renewed. But with all of our deficits, just to make sure that we're, you know, being compliant and providing what we need for teachers and students to do their work. But at the same time, if there's any duplication of efforts, we want to be aware of that. And just to ensure, you know, again, we're being transparent about what's happening to some, some subscriptions will need to be reviewed for payment costs, the number of students and staff utilizing the subscriptions and renewal dates. So just because again, we've always doesn't necessarily mean we're going to do it, but we also want to, you know, fair to the staff and things to and make sure we get a consensus. So if it's a it's a math support program or if it's, you know, something along reading like epic or something like that. Whatever the tools are, we want to make sure folks have access to it.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But we were also, you know, being prudent to understand the fiscal responsibility. I'm sorry. We're going to be completing that internally. And the technology staff is already compiling a

