[R11056-184] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries clerk roll calls,  | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we don't typically take public input during our deliberations. Sorry. Other comments from the board.
TEXT> My last comment I swear to God. So  to Mike's point as well. I have a I have a daughter that's at you and H. And they've done a great  job with testing down there. They've  done a fantastic job with mitigating surges, and I've been privy to their dashboard on a daily basis. And what was striking to me is their highest concentration of cases came from staff and not from students that were in an institutional setting. And additionally doing a very cursory literature review of the most recent data on Covid transmission, which probably many in this room have been somewhat privy to. One way or the other is the vast majority of transmission occurs in the home.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Heather. They can hear.

[R11056-186] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries clerk roll calls,  | 2020-12-02
PREV> Jason Benware: Heather. They can hear.
TEXT> Crap.  Double crap. Sorry everybody, I missed it. I'll just give you the Reader's Digest version. I have a child at you and H you and H has done a great job with mitigating the spread of Covid within the campus. They've been seen as a benchmark for the United States. Deborah Birx  actually toured and use them as an example of how to do it. And looking at their dashboard, what was startling to me, or most interesting to me, was that the highest concentration of cases came from  staff members and not from students. The ones that you would think would be irresponsible and not managing themselves well. And and in part, it's because they were in a very institutionalized setting where people made sure that they were wearing their mask and they were being monitored, very similar to what we have in our schools here. And  in addition to that, I've done a  brief literature review of the most current data discussing looks at transmission of Covid  19 and the highest concentration of transmission occurs within the household, not within school settings, by a long shot. And so when I'm grappling with making my decision on how to  vote on this, I'm looking at this as really, isn't it a is it an effective mitigation tool  or not?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And are we as a community going to benefit from it or not? And when I say community, it's our it's our school community. And that's all I have to

[R11056-189] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (arrived late) | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason.
TEXT> I want to make a motion. I move that we, the students, return back to school. As the calendar has stated, without a two week. Period of remote learning after the Christmas holiday.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Or second.

[R11056-245] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: the second meeting this month. So I think we'll it's close to Thanksgiving now. And I think in another a week or two, we'll find out what the actual impact of of Thanksgiving was. We'll have some additional data, I think, that we'll find useful.
TEXT> So and what I'm talking about now, these are the instructional recommendations for second semester by the administrative team. And we bet these. And then we come back to the specific questions being asked about contact tracing, which I feel is very important as well. So the basically the one thing that  they feel strongly about as a team, and  we spoke about this and we want to have a better shape and presentation for this after we all the data is that we, we,  we in terms of adding we, the board originally stated that we would look at it for the second semester and maybe be able to have students come back full. Everyone have the option to reach their option. And the the team feels strongly at this point that that's just not viable in terms of capacity, space, getting to in the essence of. And we'll come back with more details on this, as it's already been surfaced in this presentation  of what actually constitutes what type of education are we getting face to face versus in the counterpoint, what we might have, virtually okay.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In a synchronous model. Right. So for example, in the elementary schools, they're just not using stations, rotations, other types of things. It's tough to prep in the rooms with

[R11056-247] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: tech center classes, the applied hands on classes. Drama, music, performance, some special ed programs, OTP related services, and things of the like. We would still be able to have those. And this was part of our all the work we did in the summer.
TEXT> We, we we did have a model where that we wanted to present, but it wasn't enough infection. It was nowhere near where it is. And we and we tabled it. But again, getting back to that point of different levels of need for different students at different stages, okay, and the different types of learners. So we feel strongly that those classes at the secondary level would continue as best we can,  in that we would have some other programs. Additionally, current elementary programs, just as they are right now, we have a in-person classes and remote classes at each elementary school. They would stay as is, as it's tantamount particularly to early literacy and other types of things developmentally to be 1 to 1, no matter what their. And as long as that's tenable, in with absence management and the like in the buildup all classes. And this is something to my point before about communicating to staff are going through our MOA with the union and things like that. There were some ripples amongst the, the, the, the teaching staff that we didn't get. We sent out a notice of how we would go to  our, remote days for instead of going to two hour delays.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We we didn't have enough time to discuss that. That's something we're going to look at with the union and come back as to exactly how we would do that

[R11056-248] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: MOA with the union and things like that. There were some ripples amongst the, the, the, the teaching staff that we didn't get. We sent out a notice of how we would go to our, remote days for instead of going to two hour delays.
TEXT> We we didn't have enough time to discuss that. That's something we're going to look at with the union and come back as to exactly how we would do that by the next meeting. And just have that more teacher input for that. Exactly how we would do that. Our intent is that we feel even with the two hour delay and obviously a snow day, it makes no sense to congregate students from their homes when we already have  access to to remote learning and things like that. And that was that was the intent in that we still have to walk that back and look at the exact, you know, a language within the MLA and things like that. And, and frankly, like many things we haven't been able to do that. Well, you know, it seems seems to be a theme with just lack of time for all the other things going on.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just ask a question about that.

[R11056-256] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: will go. And but one thing for sure is we know that those days are counted the, in that I think there will have to be an emergency order on that. We haven't been, we need to follow up on that for the next meeting.
TEXT> And, Rebecca, one of the things that I think that you're talking about is blizzard bags. You have to have 80% of your your students participate in that. They the commissioner dropped that because of Covid in the problems that they were running into, he did last year. So just getting verification again from him because they're still looking into it, is that going to be something that they're going to do again this year?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Same. Same. Yeah. Districts all around are struggling with the same exact thing. We don't have clear guidance yet.

[R11056-269] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: as well. Okay. But, we're just being science minded about it. The staggering of the holiday break, that's that's now Stevens. No, this is that's just a reiteration of the same thing. Yeah. These are just, this this slide to one one of the advantages.
TEXT> A couple more slides ahead, Mr. Small and the the elementary masks my visual views for people like me. So one of the events to that would be great. And this was part of our, our original proposal as well, is that we might have benefits of having the elementary students if, if there is still infection and things like that, and staff being able to break out have field days within those. Those are the the shutdown indoor months, it's already hard because of the barriers on the cap tables to even use the gyms in cafeterias, in the elementaries, and that we could cordon them off. We'd have the busses and the other stuff that we could get them to the middle school and high school gyms during the first part of the day for extended field days, curriculum days and the like. These are things that we  kind of revisited that we had had  proposed during the summer. And other things that we would do obviously extend winter classrooms outside, same type of things as well. But that's what the those are some of the things the team came up with.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So I'd like to make a.

[R11056-283] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-02
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Blown out here.
TEXT> As you may recall, what, last year when Governor Sununu came and presented us with the check that was the result of the, House and Senate majorities negotiating with the governor around,  stabilization funds and adequacy funds. In addition to that, a deal was struck that a committee would be formed to look at ways of bridging the what I would call the opportunity gap, as much as anything as far as the inequities that exist for New Hampshire's students. The findings, really, should not be really a surprise to  anyone in that they, what they found was that there are obviously inequities within the within the state and that ways to bridge those, create some other options to raise  money other than a sales earned income tax or, and I think that they were looking at more creative forms of a, of a property tax to equalize the I'm trying to find the appropriate notes here.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I said 70% of town's tax rate would go down.

[R11056-296] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You.
TEXT> Better about it. I'm just wondering I know there's some more regulations. And all of that, but I'm just wondering if there is a, positive case of Covid and it's in a in the remote in the cohort C student population or whatever. Isn't it possible to just say, you know, we have a case of Covid and you know, how you always say that this happened, this happened, this happened, and this is an affected and this isn't can't you just say it's cohort C? That's why we can tell you that this child is not come in contact with anybody else. And that's not calling anybody's name out. But it does put a lot of does use a lot of people's minds when they're like, oh, that's how they know because it's cohort seeing they aren't in school anyway. How come you can't. Do that? As we try to protect.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: The.

[R11056-299] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: The parties.
TEXT> Involved, whether it be a student or whether it be an adult. And sometimes if we say, oh, it's cohort C, people are going to know it's a student. And so we try to protect that. So if anybody finds out, you know who the person is that has Covid, it's not from us. It's not from our school district. So if I was to say it's the students in cohort C,  then that would automatically alarm people that it's that it's a student.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I get it, I know.

[R11056-301] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I get it, I know.
TEXT> We just really try to protect it, you know, because and I do with the people that have Covid, I reach out to them and I talk to them directly. I by no means have ever said I am a professional in this or, you know, this is my area of expertise, or I'm a scientist or anything like that. But I do know from doing a lot of research and from working with us and from having to go through this multiple times, I do know a lot of the protocols. So when I speak with a parent or a staff member, most,  most times they haven't been contacted yet by DHHS, and I'm the one that's giving them the information on how you need to how quarantine goes about. But we always I, you know, always send out to all families that have to quarantine  or they have to isolate a document that that says this is what isolation means. This is what you need to do. This is how you need to to test. Because a lot of people think, oh, tomorrow I'm just going to go get a test. And that's not the case. You can't do that. And so I have those conversations. And a lot of times, you know, when I'm speaking to families, well what about this other child.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: What about this. What about this. What about this? So, you know, like my kid said, it could be a week before DHHS reaches out to them. But when he

[R11056-302] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: people think, oh, tomorrow I'm just going to go get a test. And that's not the case. You can't do that. And so I have those conversations. And a lot of times, you know, when I'm speaking to families, well what about this other child.
TEXT> What about this. What about this. What about this? So, you know, like my kid said, it could be a week before DHHS reaches out to them. But when he got his letter and when he had the information, he already knew what he needed to do, what needed to be done. So I think that as a school, I think we're really going above and beyond what, you know, what the expectation is. And I just, you know, I'm very happy with our staff and, and how they've come together and they, you know, they I mean, it makes it so much easier when I can go into a room and we have a seating chart. So we know this kid sits here and we know this, this and this and have those conversations with the teachers and they know, you know. Did you do any group work? What did you do. You know, so it just makes it really nice to have to be able to work that nicely with our staff. And right now it's working because they have the seating charts and they have everything that they need in place. So it works out great for us that our staff is is that good at what they're doing? Anything else for that? By the way.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I would like to make a motion to adjourn.

[R11106-44] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-16
PREV> Prescott Herzog: themes for each day have been Pajama Santas workshop, Christmas vacation. Underclassmen versus Juniors and Seniors, and Ugly Sweater. As we head into winter break, this is a friendly reminder to make sure to check out the class of 2020 to 21 scholarship Google Classroom.
TEXT> There have been several new scholarships posted in the last few weeks, including the Cotter Foundation Scholarship. Many of these scholarships have really January and February deadlines, and if you have any questions, please reach out to your school counselor at Claremont Middle School. Students and staff have been participating also in a holiday themed Spirit Week. The themes for each day have been holiday headgear, gay duplicates, Day, pajama Day, Ugly Sweater Contest Day and CMS School Pride Day,  and the career counselor at the sugar River Valley Tech in the middle school will be teaching an eighth grade high school prep workshop on Monday afternoons at CMS. This eighth grade workshop will allow students opportunity to map out their personal post-secondary plan through a number of interests, inventories, researches, opportunities and discussion. Under guidance, they will complete the College and Career Project and this workshop will culminate in the presentation of their project as well as a projected course election for their high school career at Stephens.  At Bluff Elementary School, the bluff students and staff are looking forward to the upcoming holiday break at Disney Elementary.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The school has participated in ten days of holiday fun, participating in themes from Let's Think of Snow to Christmas Vacation, and several bags of materials for remote students are

[R11106-45] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-16
PREV> Prescott Herzog: and this workshop will culminate in the presentation of their project as well as a projected course election for their high school career at Stephens. At Bluff Elementary School, the bluff students and staff are looking forward to the upcoming holiday break at Disney Elementary.
TEXT> The school has participated in ten days of holiday fun, participating in themes from Let's Think of Snow to Christmas Vacation, and several bags of materials for remote students are still available, and gentle reminder to pick them up as soon as possible. If you are remote at Disney Art at Maple Ave, they will be or are hosting community read out loud days at 215. Google links will be shared in the Google classrooms, and each day a guest reader will share a holiday or seasonal book. On Friday, students and staff will be treated to a hot chocolate with marshmallows and popcorn  for the final reading of the Holiday Classic. Twas the Night Before Christmas, and the students in the visions program created a Winter Wonderland craft project using cardboard tubes, corks, construction paper, cotton balls, and pipe cleaners. Sorry. Yes. That's it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R11106-48] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> The over scholarship. That's a good one. That's just a that's for local kids. I think you're searching for,  And that's a lot of money. That's a lot of money.
NEXT> Unidentified: But my daughter is fortunate to get it. And it is merit based. Right.

[R11106-60] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: how safe schools are when you in terms of overall protocols and what's going on, it's a safe place to be, sometimes safer than even the home and other types of things where you may have many visitors to the home and things like that.
TEXT> So and I also put up there with a little, little shout out, a little, little happy dance, even though things are spiking a little bit throughout the state and there's an uptick and I'll go over those graphics. I have three in a row, as I mentioned previous meetings, we're always going to try to check in with the public and talk about the safety and  disease and and also what's what's going on in terms of our, our matrix and the like. So, but if you if you look up there graphically, I could not use it from the act now page Sullivan County is that that yellow spot to the left. Okay. The lowest. The lowest rate on the 15th in in the state. So that's that's that's great. And, thanks in part to our particular protocols in the area and things like that. We've yet to have a cluster in the schools, no transmission within the schools. And it's I think it's the fidelity of staff and students and everyone sticking to the script and, and practicing everything efficiently. So it's been great. Next slide please, Mr. Small. And this is from the Chad Children's Hospital at Dartmouth. Hitchcock page there. That's Doctor Chapman.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Then he's masked up below with our tour and some of our board members and, principal. But now to the right, talking to him as as we were touring the

[R11106-65] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for the upcoming break and things like that. The newest iteration, I know Donna sent this out to everyone. It's it's online and it talks about the quarantines and also the self-testing has changed a little, if you don't mind elaborating on that. Donald, please.
TEXT> No, not at all. So now so a couple of changes, important changes that have been made is that the, the first one is the student exposure. So if a student or a staff member is exposed to someone that has Covid, it's been revised to now ten days of quarantine.  And on the  however, one of the things that you need to remember is that once you have the ten days after that, you still have four days that you still have to keep monitoring for any type of Covid symptoms. And you want to make sure you're social distancing, you're using your mask, you're voiding social gatherings and and making sure you use a good hand hygiene for the last four days. So and that it does talk about that in the, answering question Covid update that went out on the 10th of this month. It's also on our website if you want more information. The second piece is the quarantining for if you travel. That has now changed as well, that one from 14 days to ten days. However, on the seventh day, the sixth or seventh day, you can now go get a test to see if you have Covid. And it has to be. It cannot be the rapid test. And so you can go in and have the test done.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And if that test comes back negative, you can come in earlier than the ten days, but you cannot get the test done before the sixth or seventh day. So

[R11106-70] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah yeah yeah. Before Covid yeah yeah.
TEXT> Yes. Yeah, yeah. So it was early March and then,  and when we started talking about this  and, and I approached both chairs, we talked about it and we investigated and went forward, started trading drafts of what it would be. I looked at it. I worked with attorney Upton as well as to who does a lot of these agreements. And basically it was they severed their relationship with the Newport Public Schools and what you need. And for those of you who might not know, Goshen is a town that has no school. So every student within the  the borders of that town is a place somewhere. So they had an agreement with, with Newport that they they left and they you need to have an anchor school agreement by statute and New Hampshire regulations, meaning that you need to have a place where students can start and finish the full run, so to speak, from from first grade K all the way to graduation.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we proposed that between Claremont and Unity, we would be able to provide that to them with the schools so that they would have the ability to attend either

[R11106-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: they you need to have an anchor school agreement by statute and New Hampshire regulations, meaning that you need to have a place where students can start and finish the full run, so to speak, from from first grade K all the way to graduation.
TEXT> And we proposed that between  Claremont and Unity, we would be able to provide that to them with the schools so that they would have the ability to attend either any schools in Claremont or the Unity Elementary School. We definitely  got the the understanding due to proximity and kind of size in a  in community match, that it may be the case that unity may see more students particularly obviously at the early grades because they are only got K to eight and we would be the only school available for them to go nine through 12. Next slide please. Excuse. Yeah. That's not. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Can I ask a question.

[R11106-80] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Jason Benware: What happens if Goshen residents vote down the tuition agreement on their voting day in March? Do they have the ability to do that?
TEXT> They do, they do, they do so. And I was also I was unclear or I didn't specify that we're not the only place that they can go. They have school choice. We our agreement says that they can choose wherever they want. We would just be the anchor. We would serve for that.  And I will show you an upcoming slides. Exactly. You know, what we presented and how,  probable it is that we see students right away  in Claremont as well as unity. I can mention that as well. Okay, so but they.
NEXT> Unidentified: Have to have some some school has to be their anchor school.

[R11106-88] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: They can still similar.
TEXT> That's right. And  and  I'll go through the slides here. This the presentation that this slide came from was directed towards unity. But it  again from emphasis for them that was they have a downward population  a trend you know last six years or so, their average over 14 years is about 110 students in their in their down to 86. They have the room, they have the space, they have a gorgeous building. So that was something that that factor factored in with them. Next slide please. This shows from the initial presentation. Then this is if every student of the 64 who could go out where they might be or in what the amount of money would be at the 141 in the 153141 was the elementary tuition rates and 153 $15,300 was the secondary eight through 12 or 8 per student that we did in the initial proposal. Again, we're still negotiating that, and this was based on this calendar year. Once we finish our budget, those those probably would have, you know, increases as you as you might expect. But that's but that's where we started. Next slide please.  And we can go through these. This is all going to be posted online if folks want to go through it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This was their survey that Goshen sent out to folks to see who they might select to go which communities. Next slide please. In their survey results. This is also

[R11106-89] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: those those probably would have, you know, increases as you as you might expect. But that's but that's where we started. Next slide please. And we can go through these. This is all going to be posted online if folks want to go through it.
TEXT> This was their survey that Goshen sent out to folks to see who they might select to go which communities. Next slide please. In their survey results. This is also on Goshen website to and it has been for a long time. But basically what it shows is that many people want to continue out. As you might expect, students with their peer groups and staying with Newport, which is still a choice for them to finish out in Newport, at every level, okay, at kindergarten, middle and high. And, so we don't anticipate that there's going to be a slew of people for next year coming to Claremont or an enormous amount going to unity.  Our ballpark numbers are that we might get a handful. At Claremont and maybe a dozen or so at unity based on this, but we just don't know. It is variable. We definitely have the capacity in Claremont to take, we we could take 40 students or so at the, at a high school level and spread them in with very little staff needed. But you also know that that would be an infusion of, of, of several hundred thousand dollars in which we could get more teachers if we wanted.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, that's that's the situation. Next slide please. These are just survey results and targeted presentations that that we had. Next slide please. Mr.. Mr.. Small this was an interesting

[R11106-99] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at, as to which remote folks may want to come back in full. What we've seen as a ratio that hasn't changed from the initial response response is about 9 to 1, where they want to to stay in their current configuration, either staying remote.
TEXT> So it's not as impactful as we thought, but we haven't seen the full sample. So we don't want to move forward. But what we are seeing is positive. And again, I want to just in, you know, review with the public where we kind of left us with the board and with the administrative team. We're excited so far that what we've seen for the numbers coming back at elementary, where we're most concerned to try to get as many students back as soon as possible because of the early literacy and the gains that are made in person versus remotely at that grade level that we we do have, you know, about, I think, about 20 or 25 students that may want to come,  come back and total so far of the three, I think that was the number.  But what we're looking at is we think that we can do that. We haven't gone into it. We're going to wait till the sample closes. We're going to take all the great impact per school as to where those,  students may come back.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're pretty confident we can accommodate that, both in terms of the space that we have to put them in and also the, the, the, the staffing appropriate as

[R11106-100] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: number. But what we're looking at is we think that we can do that. We haven't gone into it. We're going to wait till the sample closes. We're going to take all the great impact per school as to where those, students may come back.
TEXT> And we're pretty confident we can accommodate that, both in terms of the space that we have to put them in and also the, the, the, the staffing appropriate as well, where in the elementary we have teachers who are completely in-person teachers and teachers who are remote. And we feel like that we may be able to bring some back at the inn, make that happen. We're we're looking good in that regard, and we're very excited about that. The middle school, where there are about 33% remote right now, doesn't have enough information. And they don't they don't want to say prior to this, we thought that they may want to also try to go remote, but they they do not want to go remote. They don't they don't feel that it would be prudent overall. Even though the impacts  in the equity of instruction, it's not as pronounced at the middle school as it is at the high school. And it is also, developmentally better to have kids in person at the middle school. So, so it is less problematic than, than at the, at the high school kind of the discrepancy with the schedule in the access.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So they, they want to stay put until they see the survey data as well. And I don't expect that there's going to be much change there, to be completely

[R11106-102] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes clerk Mary Woodman's roll-call calls and  | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So we had the the 1638 in the in 740 at the 45% response rate. We're hoping to get that response rate up to about 60%. But you can't you can't always rely on this. Sometimes we we chase, we go, we go back. Yes.
TEXT> Well on microphone. If suppose. That part. Of the response rate issue is, is that people who have their kids currently already in school. Yeah. Probably don't feel compelled to respond because there's no change for them.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I, I do, I do, I do think that's, that's I don't expect the other thing that we've seen in all of the surveys that we, that we have, no

[R11106-103] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: Well on microphone. If suppose. That part. Of the response rate issue is, is that people who have their kids currently already in school. Yeah. Probably don't feel compelled to respond because there's no change for them.
TEXT> I, I do, I do, I do think that's, that's I don't expect the other thing that we've seen in all of the surveys that we, that we have, no matter what the ratio is, you would expect this from the initial response. Let's say it's a cluster of 200, 300, 400. The ratio has has changed very little. So that's why we still expect it to be the 9 to 1. But we also have to, reach out again in to bring this to the board. We have homeschooled students who we feel strongly because of the spike in the homeschool students. We want to reach out to them as well, and they aren't already in this. They may want to come back because they made that choice based on health safety in the like. So we want to reach out to them. We want to get the capture, capture it well, because we want people to come back to the degree that we can accommodate it right away with the existing guidelines and everything. And, and we have a great initial, you know, we're hopeful with what we've seen so far.  So in the ratios that we have, particularly in the elementary grades.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, middle school, we don't know yet. And we're waiting to see that. But but but it's incomplete. And you can see from this, if we go to the next

[R11106-104] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to the degree that we can accommodate it right away with the existing guidelines and everything. And, and we have a great initial, you know, we're hopeful with what we've seen so far. So in the ratios that we have, particularly in the elementary grades.
TEXT> So, middle school, we don't know yet. And we're waiting to see that. But but but it's incomplete. And you can see from this, if we go to the next slide, I'll just go through the survey. There's not a lot other than, what I've already mentioned. That's the cohort. Next. Next slide please. You see that percentage change of the respondents that at seven I don't know if you can read that at home, but 7.7%.  And then, you know,  it does not apply meaning implicitly that you're, that you're satisfied and then then the. No. Okay.  So, I would like my. Yeah, the next one where you see it at about 91%. I would like my child to stay in the same cohort as their in. Okay. And that's our, that's our 99 to 1. Yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just as a as a question for future planning, it looks like Bluff School is the school where most people would probably end up kind of being funneled to because

[R11106-107] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of a late arrival to just completely balance. We're not looking for that. We want as much to normalcy as if Covid never happened as the years would have been. But that's a great question, and I'm sure a lot of people have that concern.
TEXT> And if their student was placed in a school that was not their home, their neighborhood school, but they would like them to stay there next year, would that be a possibility? Continuity say it's a first grader or.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We would visit that with the board. I don't think that'll.

[R11106-125] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: No. Not having but thank you for sharing my office set that up. So what you're saying is that. Our remote learning capability has improved to a level that we can use. Synchronous learning for all classes are.
TEXT> So our remote teaching has improved. Our remote teaching and our teacher stations  are ability to to to pivot. And some of the things that Jeff can speak about that that were going to it has improved. What we're hearing from teachers is it's tough to be in both camps. It's tough to have half of your lessons one way. And then finally, no one is satisfied that they're doing it. If they are focused all the way in on these lessons for everyone, they feel like they can do a much better job in the prep, in the skills that it takes to to present out in that's that's what they were saying today, that they're not serving two separate sets of kids. And it would be much better instruction. Yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: For equity. So if we could divide the remote and. Have them. Attend synchronously. Would that prove the equity. In if there were classes going on and they were. They

[R11106-126] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: they can do a much better job in the prep, in the skills that it takes to to present out in that's that's what they were saying today, that they're not serving two separate sets of kids. And it would be much better instruction. Yes.
TEXT> For equity. So if we could divide the remote and. Have them. Attend synchronously. Would that prove the equity. In if there were classes going on and they were. They were down. Because my concern is, is that even if our ability to do this remote learning has improved dramatically, there's no data or statistic to support that. Even more hours of instruction remotely is  better than less hours in school. And my issue has always been as well, is that you have mandatory reporters in school. You have social services in school,  you have other social needs being met in school.  And, so I think there's a bigger picture than simply educational hours. I have to be considered. And if we could figure out a way of blending these remote students into a more effective program, then that's what I would be willing to support.
NEXT> Unidentified: Like. I, I guess similar to foster, Heather and Rebecca's got her hand up.

[R11106-129] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-16
PREV> Donna Magoon: So I was just going to say Rebecca.
TEXT> So I sort of. Some. Of the thoughts to Heather. Is, why. Can't we put the remote students that are choosing remote on a schedule so they know that their algebra classes at nine, so they have to log in to Google meets, and the teacher has a laptop open with a camera running, and they're watching class.  You know, similar to what? Why make everybody remote? Why not give the remote students a synchronous schedule and they can  log on to Google Meet and be in class and participate class that way. So.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So they, they they are already doing that. And I think the teacher today said that that.

[R11106-138] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Can hear you. Great.
TEXT> So my question is kind of the same as what Heather and Mike were saying. So at the elementary level. Hold on one second. I'm going to turn my volume down here so I don't hear myself. At the elementary level. I have a fifth grader who has classroom meets with our teacher, and then she has some  individual meetings with a teacher for math and reading. And I, I've received some emails from other parents who are, in, you know, same situation as myself at the middle school in, in Sofia's remote. See, at the middle school, my oldest daughter is in eighth grade, and she has meetings with her, teachers at specific times for a specific, class each day. And then at the end of the day, they have the store where they can meet extra with teachers. So she is, participating throughout the whole day, with specific categories and specific teachers with her whole class at the same time, all the remote students. Then at the high school level, my son, was in person and he just switched to see, to keep his sister safe.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And, I'm kind of my point is he he logs on, he does his Google class, stuff. He's not required to meet with anybody. If you need help with something,

[R11106-139] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: participating throughout the whole day, with specific categories and specific teachers with her whole class at the same time, all the remote students. Then at the high school level, my son, was in person and he just switched to see, to keep his sister safe.
TEXT> And, I'm kind of my point is he he logs on, he does his Google class, stuff. He's not required to meet with anybody. If you need help with something, he can, you know, request a time to meet with his teachers at the end of the day. And I'm just not understanding why cohort C students can't be participating throughout the day with, their class and their teacher. And it seems like in each building it's inconsistent. It seems like each teacher, what they do and how they do it is inconsistent. And I just like to see some sort of, plan where everybody can come together and do the same things and be on the same page so that it's easier for students. And I guess I'm wondering why that hasn't happened yet. And it's not because of teachers, because I know they're busting their butts. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To go to Prescott next isn't Jason. Yeah.

[R11106-145] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: From.
TEXT> A nice room where I didn't have to talk to you, but so, so the I think that's what led to the proposal. Like I still. I think that's, I think that's what led to the proposal from the high school, from the, the administrative team is that if they were on on, it didn't make sense with the choice that people had wanting to go towards, the remote platform to not make it all one way for the for the consistency  that, that, that, that, Rebecca mentioned, okay. Within the high school, the inconsistency that we have is is is a great appropriate. So we had the ability because in to to cater to the survey information from folks in the elementary. So if you wanted to be 100%, remote, we had enough teachers to go 100% remote and enough to go face to face. That's the difference in the elementary. That's why it's different. It's secondary. And again, for those who who are have have haven't done it for a while, it's much harder in a secondary schedule to allow that because you you start getting into areas of specialization and schedules where you don't have the same classroom teacher the whole day. You have to move those students throughout. So we happen to have very few teachers.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We didn't have impacts like other community had, where they had a large number of teachers at middle school and high school who may not have been able to come

[R11106-148] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member; attending remotely | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Roberson.
TEXT> I think really what I'm trying to echo what I've been hearing and get some more finite answers because with two students in cohort, see, the inconsistencies are really adding up. I have a kindergartner who seems like he has no issues getting the appropriate amount of time from a para to his in-class teacher to to a specialist, and then a third grader who I'm not sure I see him in a meeting more than 2 or 3 times a week. And so I think if the expectation was that there were enough teachers to teach cohort, see, why is there still this delineation in instructional hours? I know this is specifically for the high school, but what is being done for the lower grades?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I mean, so the in terms of discrepancies, you know, brought to principals attention of of teachers who I haven't heard that I haven't heard that from, a lot

[R11106-149] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: week. And so I think if the expectation was that there were enough teachers to teach cohort, see, why is there still this delineation in instructional hours? I know this is specifically for the high school, but what is being done for the lower grades?
TEXT> So I mean, so the in terms of discrepancies, you know, brought to principals attention of of teachers who I  haven't heard that I haven't heard that from, a lot of parents widespread, nor from the principles that there are teachers at the elementary level where they're just not attending to their their students for a significant part of the day. I know that you just said it. I don't I don't doubt that's the case, but that hasn't been reported to me that that it's problematic. So I can't speak directly to the interventions and the equity and what's happening at each school. I do know that they, in terms of planning and, and getting together and collaborating for the remote instruction that the teachers are doing that at each, at each building where they're where they're coming in and planning together and seeing how they're rolling out those things. But I can get back to, to the more specific answers from that, from, from the building principals. You know, in another meeting. So.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Markings are all the markings in green, which is effectively these three are for a third grader. And I'm just trying to make sure that these discrepancies are being met

[R11106-150] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member; attending remotely | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: each, at each building where they're where they're coming in and planning together and seeing how they're rolling out those things. But I can get back to, to the more specific answers from that, from, from the building principals. You know, in another meeting. So.
TEXT> Markings  are all the markings in green, which is effectively these three  are for a third grader. And I'm just trying to make sure that these discrepancies are being met  at all levels and that the students are getting an appropriate amount of time. And I'm not putting this on any one person. Just like Rebecca said, we're all kind of getting through this. It's certainly not a teacher's fault. It might be just a scheduling issue, but I want to make sure, because when I made when I and various other parents made this decision, I don't think that we thought a that cohort C would be home this long, and B that there would be this much of a gap, at least in perception, between what the in class and the remote students are getting. So I want to make sure that we have an answer that sets all parents for cohort kids, and letting them know you are getting an adequate education based off the decision you made.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay.

[R11106-164] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: but there are other circumstances going on. So I worry about connectivity. I know that anybody that lives near where I live, you can't if somebody's streaming, you can't even check your email at my house, and there are people with kids on my road.
TEXT> And it only gets worse as you go farther up Piper Hill. So. And I know where Rebecca lives. Same thing. So I worry about connectivity. And I mentioned it to the mayor today because there were supposed to be money coming in for broadband on the outskirts of town. So I think if you, you, you look at why are kids not participating? They can't catch the bus, they can't get on the internet, you know. So so what are some of the issues that are going on with kids, that live out toward Cornish or live toward Charlestown or live toward unity? So I think, I think that there's a there's an upside. But I am concerned with the downsides, and I do I do perfectly understand what's been said here tonight. And I kind of  want it. Mike.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I was I kind of made a list earlier today. Some of what we heard also was kids going remote because of their work schedules, that that holds no

[R11106-172] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Okay. All right. So I'm clarifying. So you're talking about why aren't we synchronous all the way through for everyone who is so for elementary, middle and high school? Or are you talking just about the high school now? Rebecca I.
TEXT> In the classroom. Teaching in student students in class and students at home at the same time, specifically.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Any grade? Yeah. So a lot of that has to do with how we can broadcast out. And also it does have to do with Hepa and having enough, having

[R11106-177] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Will this be a big part of of what we do? It always was. And just so everyone knows, in terms of the, the district's strategic plan and things like that, we we had our 1100 Chromebooks purchased and ready to be shipped before Covid.
TEXT> Okay. It even happened. And then when Covid did happen, that messed up our orders and everything that happened in the supply chain and everything else. But.  So it's all I don't want to act like it hasn't been on our radar to do this into focus on learning stations and the end users and how kids use technology. It certainly is a goal for us, and we're getting there, but we have a ways to go and we openly admit that, you know, no one's, we're not resting on anything. We we wish we were better at this as well, and that we had more time to, to do a better job with it. So in terms of your second part on special ed populations and in, in the like, so we, we I can have Mister Nestor speak to that directly, but we have, We've done a lot to, to have interventions, have Paris help with a remotely and at the elementary level, whether in a remote cohort or in person cohort. And also,  there have been other other measures that we've used as well. So I don't know if you want to speak to those things or if there's anything specific you want to to get to Rebecca with that question.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: But if we were to move to full. Remote for the high. School. Would it still be an option for special ed students to come in? Four days a week

[R11106-178] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: cohort or in person cohort. And also, there have been other other measures that we've used as well. So I don't know if you want to speak to those things or if there's anything specific you want to to get to Rebecca with that question.
TEXT> But if we were to move to full. Remote for the high. School. Would it still be an option for special ed students to come in? Four days a week or something like that to, to be getting the services that they need. So, for example, my school district just went back to hybrid, but we held emergency meetings on all of our special ed students that we thought needed to be in school more days than two days a week. So with that still be an option for the high school especially.
NEXT> Unidentified: Further.

[R11106-206] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead Rebecca.
TEXT> So so if students have like a science lab or what what would be the plan for being able to teach remotely those types of classes. How how would someone be able to do that with their with their students at home.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So in order in order to do labs and things like that. So the it would be synchronous and they, they would be filmed doing the stuff there. Obviously there

[R11106-212] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-16
PREV> Unidentified: So that.
TEXT> That being done being said, I think it would be interesting if this was on the agenda again January 2nd if there were some substantive changes. And I think the administration heard tonight that there are certain conditions from the board which they would like to see. And if those if that where we're where what we were presented and what people would like to see if that can be narrowed. I think that and I think that that comes down to, the ability for students to be in school  and also, students who are remote to be part of the same lesson.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So and as I heard that convey that and we'll.

[R11127-37] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont); Claremont School Board Chair (uncertai | 2020-12-10
PREV> Jeff Small: If something happens, they spin it up on another server. They're monitoring it 24 over seven for uptime. And we just don't have the dedicated.
TEXT> Clarifying question about that. This is a former guidance counselor asking this question. Does that enable the auto scheduler for individual kids?
NEXT> Jeff Small: I'd have to check that.

[R11127-88] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Tempesta: was. He affirmed a lot of the work that were going on. And I say that to it's completely parallel that we had in unity. And I think we could all I don't want to speak for him, but he's offered for whatever we want.
TEXT> So we could have him come up to to unity as well. If he is at the time, I'm sure he would.  Just a really incredibly knowledgeable guy, gregarious and met with as teachers of administrators, staff in students as to what was going on, observed, particularly our barriers he was impressed with and our protocols, and it was really a shot in the arm, I think for the staff, particularly as, as, as we know with, kind of the uptick across the country that hasn't really made its way into,  you know, like the rest of the state into Sullivan County. But it's still we're vigilant with all the protocols and in the like. And, it was it was really great having that much of an expert,  you know, it meant a lot to  to have him come out, volunteer his time and then go to his, his shift that he was doing. And it was it was great insight. So, that being said, my next slide, please. There's this little stock photo from the internet there and some other shots of him conferring with the administrators. Next, please. And then I have the numbers. I  said to the SAR, and I said, the Claremont. And I said the unity that we would continue to revisit the numbers and every public meeting so that the public knows that we're vigilant on looking what's going on around the state in terms of Covid and that we would we would educate.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And so I have the data from yesterday and this is on the Covid Act Now site. I'd like the graphic in the displays on that. So you can see

[R11127-90] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Tempesta: line. It was a good day. Next I can I will defer to our Covid expert Don Donna McGowan with protocols up up updates as they come in. Couple documents that went out to both unity and in Claremont. We could go through those. Donna.
TEXT> If you. Yeah. I just need to make myself. Yeah. So you can see that some of. The. Guidelines have changed. And we did send that stuff out today. So when you're looking at the travel guidelines that we have in place, it changed to ten days now.  So if anyone travels out of New England, they only have to quarantine for ten days. However, they do also have a part now that at day seven. Well, you can you can test on day six, so you only have to quarantine for seven days, but on the sixth day you have to have a PCR test. So you cannot do a rapid test. And then once that test result comes back in,  then the child or the staff member can go back to work. So that changed a lot from the, the 14 days that it used to be prior to that. The same thing with the next piece, which is our screener. What changed in our screener is again, the travel and then also the amount of days that you have to be quarantined.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: If you are around someone that has that has Covid. At one time the question was, have you or anyone in your household been around someone with Covid? And if

[R11127-92] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Donna Magoon: know, that you're free and clear. You still have to monitor for symptoms. Do not gather around a lot of people, so still follow the same protocols. And just make sure that your you're healthy when you're returning for those that those period of time.
TEXT> Thank you Donna. Good switching.  Next slide please. The this was a big news earlier in in the week. And we had a  we started speaking to Goshen who approached us about  possibility of having a tuition agreement for students coming to see you six meaning both towns unity in Claremont. So we proceeded to go back and forth and talk to the board, you know, for for a while now, different iterations of that,  discussions about it. How would it affect,  obviously, a smaller community such as as a unity versus Claremont?  And it was a really a great process, I think, as well for, for a,  a few new  board members as well, in a highly, highly engaging a lot, a lot of amazing questions, really, in perspectives that, that we shared. It was very, very rigorous. We had a, a seven to just to recap for folks, this had to be voted with the individual boards. So  Claremont voted a week ago. Seven unanimously to go forward with the agreement. Unity voted on Tuesday night  3 to 1  with with one abstention. To to go forward with the agreement. And then later that night, actually Goshen,  I got the text from their superintendent.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They voted unanimously 5502 to go with it as well. So it it is a go where we're getting the draft ready to sign, and we should have that posted

[R11127-93] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Tempesta: voted a week ago. Seven unanimously to go forward with the agreement. Unity voted on Tuesday night 3 to 1 with with one abstention. To to go forward with the agreement. And then later that night, actually Goshen, I got the text from their superintendent.
TEXT> They voted unanimously 5502 to go with it as well. So it it is a go where we're getting the  draft ready to sign, and we should have that posted to the public as soon as we get those signatures, which I expect to be tonight, then go to go to to Goshen. But early next week it'll be all online. So, it really we believe long term it's a, it's a great situation for all the communities. And I'll just go through that. We I'm recycling the same presentation, Marjorie, with your editing on that for the Goshen one. If you go to the next slide, please. Mr. small, we looked at the historical, decline somewhat decline over the last 4 or 5 years and what's gone up and down and,  obviously with a some impact with the recent with Covid and the like. But, in talking to the administration and looking at the capacity of the building at unity, the new principal, Principal Schroeder there, who replaced Chip Baldwin, in  it would be better to have from her perspective, about 110 students ultimately. So that class is a full some opportunities to have single teachers for each grade where they share grades.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: A few other value added types of things if they have more students for sports teams and things like that. One of the concerns, and it is a concern, particularly

[R11127-94] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at unity, the new principal, Principal Schroeder there, who replaced Chip Baldwin, in it would be better to have from her perspective, about 110 students ultimately. So that class is a full some opportunities to have single teachers for each grade where they share grades.
TEXT> A few other value added types of things if they have more students for sports teams and things like that. One of the concerns, and it is a concern, particularly in any any school environment, but also for  a small, dare I say, idyllic community like like unity. Very small classes and expectations and a great school culture. So and we, they, they also concluded that Goshen in terms of community is, is a very parallel community as well with, with students aspirations, kids for years going back and forth between Newport Claremont unity very, very similar characteristics. So it was a good match. We we posted next slide and we presented some of the historical, if at the and you see in this document there's a tuition initial  proposal number of 14 1 in 15, 3141 was for tuition students at the elementary level, 153 for middle and high school level for any school. Right. So that's for Unity Elementary, Claremont Elementary, Claremont Middle Unity middle six through eight or also for  Steven's High. So potential of what could come in with the number of students that would come to us eventually  in kudos again to to the principals and the admin team in Claremont and even more importantly, Sue Schroeder and Unity for really plotting exactly what that would look like as a projective worst case, best case scenario.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: A lot of a lot of work there, a lot of feedback from staff as well. So next slide please. And these detailed also and this was something that we

[R11127-95] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Tempesta: students that would come to us eventually in kudos again to to the principals and the admin team in Claremont and even more importantly, Sue Schroeder and Unity for really plotting exactly what that would look like as a projective worst case, best case scenario.
TEXT> A lot of a lot of work there, a lot of feedback from staff as well. So next slide please. And these detailed also and this was something that we worked through with with the unity folks as well as we, we looked at the surveys that Goshen sent out. Next slide please, Mr. Small. And next slide. We'll just we'll just go right through them for the folks at home. We looked at the potential impact. It wasn't a full survey sample  so we didn't know exactly. But as as where people might have wanted to send their students in college fair time as well. That's coming up in the spring. On the on the on the Goshen survey side with members of, of the unity board really scrutinize what's been going on there on, on the in the community, in the press and all all the, in the like.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we, I think together kind of came to the conclusion that next slide as well with, with the Newport survey as well. Newport and I spoke to their superintendent,

[R11127-96] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That's coming up in the spring. On the on the on the Goshen survey side with members of, of the unity board really scrutinize what's been going on there on, on the in the community, in the press and all all the, in the like.
TEXT> And we, I think together kind of came to the conclusion that  next slide as well  with, with the Newport survey as well. Newport and I spoke to their superintendent, as I do quite often, and they, they also put a survey out for because they're preparing their budget just as everyone else is, just as we are. And they wanted to know how many students wanted to finish out, meaning that they started in Newport, and then they would finish out at either the elementary level or the middle school level, or the high school level for that matter. And approximately 60% of the respondents or so said that they would, and that that kind of,  I don't know, kind of  from my perspective. And the board members can speak for themselves, but somewhat solidified the angst that if everyone came at once. Could it be a budget breaker or things like that? But we anticipate that there would be between 10 and 20 students in the numbers actually showed when we dissected the respondents from the Newport survey that we think it's closer to ten actual students that will net for the first year, which should be easily absorbed with the existing staff without much,
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Need for for any new staff as, as for the new Goshen students at unity. And as we know to speaking back to Claremont, as we discussed with the board

[R11127-97] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-10
PREV> Michael Tempesta: 10 and 20 students in the numbers actually showed when we dissected the respondents from the Newport survey that we think it's closer to ten actual students that will net for the first year, which should be easily absorbed with the existing staff without much,
TEXT> Need for for any new staff as, as for the new Goshen students at unity. And as we know to  speaking back to Claremont, as we discussed with the board in every school, it would help us. We know that we've had a  stagnant to declining enrollment at Stevens High School. We know that we have had some imbalance in the elementary schools as well. That would, if they choose to come to Claremont, that we could balance out those issues. And again, with no additional staff needed. And we see as 2 in 3 years out, nothing but revenue coming in for that offset. So I think it's a great situation and we're looking forward to to the next steps with it. And that's all I had in my report.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Any questions or comments for Mr.. Don't see anybody. All right. So we will move on to citizens comments. Again no one in the room and I don't see anybody

[R11175-3] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: You speak up. Yeah. People can hear you.
TEXT> Yeah. Indicating that they would like to donate $5,000 to the special education department.  To support kids  and the work that our teachers do. And so  I just want to publicly thank this individual who wish to remain  anonymous. His name  has been redacted from the handwritten letter. So again, just thank you. Much appreciated.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R11175-42] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> Transitioning to,  citizens comments.  And, we have some items on our agenda today that I'm not sure if people in the community would like to weigh in on.  It is not my preference that we would invite public comment during our actual deliberations so that if anyone in the listening or viewing audience would like to comment at this time about anything we might be discussing tonight, now would be the time. Okay. Seeing no citizens. At this point, I'd like to close citizens comments and move into our regular board meeting. And we'll start with the. Do you have a student report?
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: I'm having technical difficulties. Right.

[R11175-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Jeff Small: Yes. No worries.
TEXT> So, as many in the community know already, and I want to, go go through the items. There's obviously been a spike of, Covid 19 in Sullivan County and in Claremont. That is very significant. And I want to, speak to that. The clip that you see today.  Is is recent as a few hours ago, if you look in the upper left hand corner, you're going to see the administrative team nurse, assistant superintendent McGowan, Mr. Romeo and assistant principal of Buckland starting the process of. And I happen to be there for this outstanding stellar journalistic photo. Okay. But the we just wanted to put that in there and kind of talk about what goes on during those and that we had that today. And to talk about some of the concerns that the administrative team has, has about that. We've been trying to keep everyone as prepped as as possible and up to date. I'll go to the next slide, please. So this is a this is a in if you want to elaborate a system, superintendent McGowan, you can jump at any time. But it really is a  fairly involved process of of the contact tracing all the way through where they take they find out the students and staff or anyone who is exposed, and then look at all the spaces where they may have been in.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and that's what you're seeing their, their live happen. I, I was in there obviously we all went over there to investigate and help out and the staff did

[R11175-52] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But it really is a fairly involved process of of the contact tracing all the way through where they take they find out the students and staff or anyone who is exposed, and then look at all the spaces where they may have been in.
TEXT> And and that's what you're seeing their, their live happen. I, I was in there obviously we all went over there to investigate and help out and the staff did an amazing job. Getting the students out quickly, securing the area, following the protocols. And I can't say enough about how  how proud we are of all of them and the work that they're doing. It was just very professional.  But that's that's where we that's where they are. Right? Right there looking at the exact spaces people may have have gone through and distance  and, and looking at the seating charts and the dividers and everything, all, all the factors. So,  it was outstanding effort. So I kept in on next slide, please, a series of the slides that I mentioned. I try to use the act now Covid 19 graphics because they're pretty simple and forward. And I just want to show you the progression that we've had over the past  few weeks or a month or so. So this is going back to December 14th, where there were 65 new cases in New Hampshire and only 17 in Sullivan County.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Next slide please. The 15th. They change daily. You can see the change, if you don't mind, going forward to the 3rd January third. Sunday before we're back, we can

[R11175-54] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: going on in the community. We met at length over the past couple of days and even. Right, right. Before in our recommendation. Based on the spike and based on events today would be to recommend that we go to remote learning until the 19th.
TEXT> As we presented before, it will buy some time beginning on this Friday. And, we also have news to present that very positive news, frankly, and not to lose sight of the survey information. The others we we have been working hard to, make room for all the folks that are coming back and to get those numbers. And I'll get to that in the following slides. We know that we have when the close the survey and I'll show you that in a minute. So but  but that is our recommendation in our it is also to delay the new group coming back where we have, I believe, approximately over 50 students now between 50 and 60. We still have had some anecdotal, follow up that we're working on reaching out to. There are some people in the cert who didn't respond that they wanted to come back from remote in person in the survey, but they did mention it to to principals. And to be completely honest, when we checked in this afternoon to go through this and presentation and make sure we had all the points accurately, many of the principals, again, with the strain that some of them were teaching classes, they, they, they still will get back and follow up with those folks.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But at the same time, we're we're excited that we're going to get more people back, which is always the goal. Since early in the summer, have as many people

[R11175-58] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: How many people we have out?
TEXT> How many, how many students? And based on since Monday. Yeah.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Well, just based for from today what we've seen today, I think I can go through on yours. We have approximately 13 staff members out, on quarantine, so they're going

[R11175-59] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: How many, how many students? And based on since Monday. Yeah.
TEXT> Well, just based for from today what we've seen today, I think I can go through on yours. We have approximately 13 staff members out, on quarantine, so they're going to be out for ten days. And then we have just today's. But from today's incident, we have 26 students in three staff members just from today, from the middle school. So overall, I mean, overall we're  looking we have a we have over 50 students out right now being quarantined throughout our district. And, you know, 13 staff members. And I just got report of a couple more.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What was the impact at Stevens?

[R11175-62] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: days. And three staff members, one for 20 days. The impact for that, we were fortunate enough to not have, the person that was infected in school because they didn't come back after break. So we didn't have the opportunity for them. They were quarantining.
TEXT> So that and I think so in if I, if I leave something else. Been  a long day. We've been on this since early in the morning but the but the I think  where we are  as, as staff and as, as, as we see this as building administrators having so many, folks in our charge, within our building, students, staff members, and as we see this in our no one's goal has changed to have as many back as possible. And we feel as soon as possible with the it's a well invested time to switch models because similar to what our what we're anticipating, we don't have hard evidence that this will happen. But if it follows suit as  to what happened, at Stevens before when we had a had a few and then we were lucky enough to have that break on the two days, the Monday and Tuesday before Thanksgiving break. That really when we more cases came in over the weekend and because we called Monday and Tuesday and they didn't come in and that went into the vacation we had those ten days. We know that there were at least four other that would have been in for those two days. What we're seeing  now is in what we anticipate is that we're still going to see those things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Each of the last two nights we've gotten calls. We didn't act on it last night. We waited till this morning. You can't you can't overreact. But as soon as

[R11175-77] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: We have another cluster.
TEXT> We have not had a cluster. So. Well, my what I'm saying is, is what we've heard from health care professionals as well. Is that the safest place for kids to be is in a school. And when they're not in school there in the community setting, which we're seeing a rise in spread in the community, they're in activities that are not regulated well, most likely are not regulated well, because we've had a cluster in a extracurricular activity program. And where other spikes are occurring in the community are in communal living or in communal living settings. So my concern is actually we're we're we're not helping ourselves by keeping children and staff in a community with a rising rate, when we can keep them in a controlled environment for extended periods of time, that has been shown time and time again to be safe. Our protocols, work or safety procedures work. Kids are wearing masks routinely. We don't see breaches in that disinfectant. Disinfecting is going on. People are screened daily. That's not going to happen at the home. That's not going to happen at daycare. That's not going to happen when kids are going to friends houses. And if anything will have an increased spread within our school community in that way, it'll just be happening at home.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I don't know if we're actually going to be helping ourselves by extending the period of time where kids are out in the community instead of in the school.

[R11175-78] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: to happen at the home. That's not going to happen at daycare. That's not going to happen when kids are going to friends houses. And if anything will have an increased spread within our school community in that way, it'll just be happening at home.
TEXT> So I don't know if we're actually going to be helping ourselves by extending the period of time where kids are out in the community instead of in the school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we are this is on the agenda after the superintendent's report. I'm assuming we so we can discuss it more then I don't want to get in a.

[R11175-86] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to have I think approximately 25 or 30 or so wanting to come back to Stevens and, about 15 or so, I believe at, at the middle school, although today we had a bunch say that they were going to stay out past the Monday.
TEXT> But we're we it's it's very fluid and very, very dynamic. So, it's it's it's been tough to tough to manage if we go, if you go forward one slide. I like to  keep going. All right. So I know in our last presentation we talked about some of those challenges. And I tried to put them in order. We talked about remote instruction. So I tried to put a graphic up here for the community  of there was some discussion about how different days looked for different teachers and different schools, particularly at the elementary of of what a day looks like and what I tried to put in a slide  for those at home. And we'll put this on the web as well. Is that it's a developmentally appropriate, situation. So the expectation basically that you're on for 4 or 5 hours straight or from 9 to 3,  synchronous all the way through, with your students is not a realistic one for what you would do in a normal day.  So there are presentations of many lessons  kids doing other work at home, coming back, discussion groups and follow up.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I, I tried to grab the best graphic representation that I could and then sanitize them a little so that you could see what those look like at the

[R11175-87] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: 9 to 3, synchronous all the way through, with your students is not a realistic one for what you would do in a normal day. So there are presentations of many lessons kids doing other work at home, coming back, discussion groups and follow up.
TEXT> And I, I tried to grab the best graphic representation that I could and then sanitize them a little so that you could see what those look like at the at the middle school level, I think I got every every school, every each of the elementary schools. But you can see how they're a little bit different in group work, how there's individual time, the one to the far right that's in the list format. You can kind of get a day of the teacher how they rotate their groups individually, working in groups with 2 or 3 students, really having a lot of individual time and staggering it. And that's what  that's what goes on on behind that. And I just wanted to put that put that out there. So and I have some other slides about the work that we have to finish. If you go to the next slide, please, Mr. Small. So when we met, when you have students, we're trying to we're trying to get our final cut off numbers. And if you want your student to come back from remote see to in person again, please call the school and and make that known. We've reached out and and we're going to continue to reach out, but we're trying to the challenge at the elementary is we have a set of  teachers who are remote specialists, and we have a limited number of those.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And as people come back, we need to pull back some of those teachers and maybe make them go in person. And it's never as clean as you would hope.

[R11175-88] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and and make that known. We've reached out and and we're going to continue to reach out, but we're trying to the challenge at the elementary is we have a set of teachers who are remote specialists, and we have a limited number of those.
TEXT> And as people come back, we need to pull back some of those teachers and maybe make them go in person. And it's never as clean as you would hope. So, for example, if an online teacher has has 15 students and three of them want to come back. We're trying to make sure we have grade levels. We may have them come back and join other cohorts so that we can. We want to have as many teachers come back to take a parallel cohort of students for the remainder of the year. It's not the case that we also want to we don't want to have the case where the teacher is doing their in person, as well as the remote at the elementary level and in the in switching up class lists and things like that. We know there's going to be some change. And we are also saying that for those who want the direct instruction, we will definitely make that happen. It may not be in the, we don't know yet for sure, but it may not be in your, your, local school. It may have they may have to join another school and we're still working on those.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But you can see our, our, our board there of how we've been working on that of who would cover for whom and what the class number size is. But

[R11175-89] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: instruction, we will definitely make that happen. It may not be in the, we don't know yet for sure, but it may not be in your, your, local school. It may have they may have to join another school and we're still working on those.
TEXT> But you can see  our, our, our  board there of how we've been working on that of who would cover for whom and what the class number size is. But and again, that was with the survey results. This is the work from Monday afternoon  that you see on there. It has increased by 30 since then by that legwork that they're going out there. We have to revisit this and it takes a little time, but we're very excited that we will have more kids back in person. This next slide, please. I had the opportunity and I wanted to put up a screenshot of this. We've been having kind of superintendents forums listening in. Some of the board members have joined in on those. This one, I think, was, screenshot was right before we broke for vacation, but it was a good, good sounding board to hear what was going on. And we have another one coming up. I believe we moved him to Wednesday nights, and I'll keep the board posted on those. I'll shoot those out as well as,  you know, other staff members.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I actually, I felt badly I, I changed the date of one of the original ones, and there was one that happened over vacation where I got a text message.

[R11175-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: good, good sounding board to hear what was going on. And we have another one coming up. I believe we moved him to Wednesday nights, and I'll keep the board posted on those. I'll shoot those out as well as, you know, other staff members.
TEXT> I actually, I felt badly I, I changed the date of  one of the original ones, and there was one that happened over vacation where I got a text message. Hey. Are we having this or not? At 3:00 on Wednesday, we're preparing for the holiday, and we made sure we moved it. But people still are interested in doing a lot of good information and really, strategies as well about how to how to work with students. All right. Next next slide.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's all I have. That's it.

[R11175-128] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: state also provided us with $2.58 million of one time money, which we utilized in the budget. We used 1.5 million within the budget for capital improvements, and we used $1 million in two separate expendable trusts, one for special education and one for, transportation.
TEXT> So we expected to be have a reduction of that 2.5 million. However, because of the reduction of our ADM or average daily number of students that we have in the schools, we're seeing a further reduction in our adequacy aid. And that's the $392,000. So when we look at the budget and we look at the impact that it has on tax rate, it's not just the spending side, it's what we're receiving on the revenue side. So we're having to make up for this reduction that we're getting from the state on the expense side. And this is leading up to our our last discussion that we had with the Budget Committee this morning. There were a number of changes that were made and basically realignment of of investments that were done. And they're identified here. There were a couple of special education positions,  through, attrition, that Ben had determined that we could do without for next year. We had stated a long time back, and it's actually formalized within this budget, the elimination of the remaining funding for one for all.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We reduced and eliminated some of the out of district placements, and these out of district placements are actually being offset by a program that's being put in place, which

[R11175-131] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: can see saw a very significant increase we did over the course of the summer have two kiddos within our district, that need to be out, that need to be put into a residential program, which was an anticipated $500,000 cost for those two students.
TEXT> And again, everyone, all kiddos within New Hampshire are guaranteed a free and adequate education, and this is a part of what is required to provide them with their adequate education. So we didn't expect it. They're now in the budget for next year as they carry through to next year. I had also asked that we identify. I asked Ben to please include three unidentified students. So again, we know during the summer we have kids that are coming into the market. And let's at least put in that contingency within the budget. So there are three of them in there. We've identified them at $90,000 apiece, which, as you can tell from the two surprises we had from last year, doesn't nearly cover the cost.  But we're required to take these kiddos and to provide them with the education. So this at least helps us to have a contingency in place when or if they come. If they don't come, then we don't spend those dollars and those dollars go back as a part of year end surplus. I spoke to item E, which is the new students that we had come in this year.  We have added a program, the NEC program, which is actually, I think, titled after the actual program.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: As opposed to doing it externally. We're now doing it internally. So there's an offset on the expense side for what the cost is for that NEC program. But it's

[R11175-132] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: dollars go back as a part of year end surplus. I spoke to item E, which is the new students that we had come in this year. We have added a program, the NEC program, which is actually, I think, titled after the actual program.
TEXT> As opposed to doing it externally. We're now doing it internally. So there's an offset on the expense side for what the cost is for that NEC program. But it's another one targeted at trying to  control internally what our costs are and working with some of our more challenged kiddos. We do have a new position at the high school, which was a health and fitness position, which was put in place this year and is carried over to next year. And then we added what we call a brave program, which happens to be located at bluff. And this is for students who aren't on an IEP. It's not a special ed program, but are especially challenging within their buildings. And the determination this year, after a significant amount of discussion with the building leaders, the principals, Ben, and the whole administration was to put in place where we could where we could house these more challenging kiddos and to reduce the amount of interruption that they caused on their home school. So it wasn't it wasn't an expense offset. It was really a way to try and have a reduced effect on the buildings of of kiddos who were just showing some behaviors that were completely using up the bandwidth of our principles, of our behavior specialists, of our teachers within those.  So we formalize. That.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Within the 2022 budget, when we went through all of those changes. We still came up this morning in our discussions, our most recent discussion with the Budget Committee, at

[R11175-137] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: up by approximately $0.60 last year to this year. Now, last year, we dropped the rate by $0.56 from the previous year. This year we're going up by $0.60 from the previous from from last year based on the presentation that we're seeing here. Okay.
TEXT> If we go to the next page, if that's all right, or if we want to ask questions as we're going along here, but the next page speaks to what's going on with the revenue side. We're talking the expense we'll do in more detail. But here's the revenue side. So the district assessment is going up by that 541,000, which I mentioned on the previous page. We are seeing a higher level of tuition coming into the schools, which is great. So I increase the estimate on that from 600 to 750. No change in the vocational ed or the transportation fees, interest income, pupil activity fees. The other are range. Primarily they are contributions that are coming in. No change on the the balance to reduce taxes. You see they're the funds from the expendable trust the 400,000. So it shows the fund that what we're receiving from local sources, the state sources, we have the reduction that I discussed earlier on the adequate education grant. We've got the state property tax, which even though it's lower, goes up a little bit. The catastrophic aid we had for the last number of years had had quite a low reimbursement on catastrophic aid. They don't call it that any longer. They call it special education. Spending.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Sped. Sped a Sped aid. Okay. But I just got yesterday the estimation for next year. So we're looking at a pretty significant reimbursement of our excess special education cost,

[R11175-146] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Richard Seaman: Special ed.
TEXT> Aid,  and we're. Talking about two. Students  that will cost 500,000 is what we would anticipate to get back from special ed aid from those students. Part of the number that is, have we anticipated getting money back? Because certainly those students would qualify. For special. Ed aid.
NEXT> Ben Nester: The money anticipated comes in under the revenue side. So the the catastrophic aid and the amount of I think 600,000. Oh. Right. So when we prepare the budget historically,

[R11175-148] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Ben Nester: Whether it's $300,000 a year or or whatever that may be. And then as far as the sped aids piece of it or the catastrophic aid that comes in under the revenue side, and I think that's around 600,000 is what we've estimated this year.
TEXT> So you're anticipating getting money back on those two students?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yes. Okay. Yeah.

[R11175-150] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Ben Nester: Yes. Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> It's I did not explicitly incorporate them in there and say, well see our our costs a lot. I could certainly do that. I don't know what the appetite is from the state as far as what the funding will be. So as of now, no, I did not increase it based on those additional students looking into next year, I'm working off their projections that I just received from them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I have one more question. And this is under the reduction of eight positions. Now, we saw, the three of us on the subcommittee saw a proposed budget, and

[R11175-153] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: doing a similar role in two places and then in effect, taking them out of their traditional role, but, but kind of massaging that. So there's more of a focus on what they're doing in that case in the secondary level at middle and high.
TEXT> So we have we are confident we can pull it off with this with as we have some historical ebb and flow of as you know  well, the high school schedule, where some, some teachers may not have as full load as other teachers. And these types of things that we're looking to see that will kind of will shake out a little bit more once we see  the tallies in what students select for electives and things like that. But overall, we we feel we feel confident with that. And again, it would be a much different  scenario if we didn't have the benefit, frankly, of,  of of of those, higher salary in total compensation package folks is folks retiring. So that's why it lessens the hit to the district. But we, we still have we still have to look at there will be some, some tweaking along the way. And we also are  looking at other known retirements in other departments as well, and that we anticipate maybe custodial. We don't have any in secretary, but we're trying to do as many of those as we can to see if there's another way  to get as much service and maybe change, you know, zones or  this and really try to  our focus is on preserving the highest quality of programing in the initiatives that we have in.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're confident we can do that. Frankly. We also think that that folks are going to stick around longer. We have and I kudos to and we're excited to see

[R11175-154] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of those as we can to see if there's another way to get as much service and maybe change, you know, zones or this and really try to our focus is on preserving the highest quality of programing in the initiatives that we have in.
TEXT> We're confident we can do that. Frankly. We also think that that folks are going to stick around longer.  We have and I  kudos to and we're excited to see this as we kind of geek out at some of the historical in here, the, the program growth of of those in the vision frankly for Mr.. Nestor, before I came to start going towards and bringing students back, you see that kind of of benefiting everything, particularly in the earlier grades, where once we have those students back and I use the example of the one that we're in the process of developing this spring,  where we're taking  the students out of the, and the  known students who are in, who are  in placements far away are coming back to the district  where we not only it's almost a 2 to 1 ratio of what we're saving, but it's also the quality of education in the student's day in life. They're not driving an hour each way. They they're in their own communities. The other tangential resources, such as transportation drivers, are now local and restored as well. So there's there's benefit in a lot of these a lot of these moves. So we're we're excited that that it looks ominous. When you see eight positions it's it gives you gives you pause. But we we're confident it will be with a minimal shake up in the district. It's really
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's I think it's important to say. From a board point of view that the board doesn't decide to make these. Decisions about staffing. These decisions are made by the

[R11175-161] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: after this year, so very judicious. We hate to go into that unless we really need to. But we needed to and sometimes you can offset that with, with local monies as well. But we specifically are using that to program build those two programs.
TEXT> So the long term it's just a guy. Just to clarify for the for the community's concerns as well as my own, is that the reason why we need to use this now for these high school students is because we didn't capture them essentially earlier, or as if we had had these programs in place that we're putting in place now, we would have captured these students and enabled to actually modulate the costs to the community and to be able to manage it. And so that's why we're having to tap into it now is because the the system that we're putting in place now did not exist when they entered the district. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: So exactly.

[R11175-187] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: There's been some chat. You.
TEXT> No, I don't think we will. So. Okay. Moving forward with the agenda, instructional options for second semester. And, this is a continued discussion from the superintendent's report.  Just a quick comment in the proposal. The request from the administration is that wrote myself a note here. Not going to find it. That I think there are two different distinct requests here. One is a switch to remote from one 821 to 1 1921, and the other is delay new in person students till two one of 21. And when we come to a vote on this, I would like to separate those two. I think I don't want to because I think they're very  distinct, requests. So I would like to have those be separate with the approval of, folks here. Yes. Okay. So we we heard we heard the superintendent's report.  And I'm wondering, did you want to say anything else, Mr. Tempesta?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Well, I.

[R11175-203] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: You're up go ahead.
TEXT> I want to echo several things that Frank said. First of all, I think the Claremont community in general should be so incredibly proud of our teaching staff and every adult that works in each of our schools, because just like many other professions, they are scared. Many of them are nervous. And it's not to say folks in other professions don't feel the same way. What I respect most about our staff  is that they never let kids see that level of nervousness. So behind closed doors they might come in and express their worries and concerns. I will be honest, the the emotional well-being of staff is always a concern for us as principals, and we manage that every day.  I will tell you that a fair amount of my day is spent reassuring adults that we're going to be okay. And the reason we're going to be okay is because of all of the amazing things they're doing. And so I do think that's important for the for the Claremont community to know. The other thing I think, you know, I understand that we haven't had a cluster. I don't I don't disagree with any of those facts that have been shared.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Understand completely that schools are safe places and isn't that great? We want schools to be safe for our children. I think by nature, as educators, we are proactive people.

[R11175-215] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I just have a few questions and a couple of comments. But my first question is, to Mike T, what's the thinking behind going directly to remote as opposed to following a hybrid model for a couple of weeks?
TEXT> So, so. In terms of getting and splitting the hybrid and going back, we felt overall at all the levels, it would be better to do this. The of of  busses and getting that off. We thought that this would be much, much easier to pull off and and less changes for students in and for the runs. And we would get the most immediate gain and separation from it that that was that was our rationale. We didn't go.  We know that we could pivot to that. But that but that was kind of the rationale of the group.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. And and then my other I have another question, a comment. But my other question is, I think at the beginning of Armenia, I heard that 13 teachers were

[R11175-218] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: is. Taking the time to go into the classrooms and work with the kids. So we have some parents, we have special ed. We have title one, we have the building principals. They're trying to man them the best they can with whatever they have.
TEXT> Okay. So that brings me to my comment. Kind of, and it's a little bit of a soapbox for me. And I know people are sick of hearing me say this, but I keep hearing about how we need to keep students in school. And I know there's an awesome arguments for both sides of that, but I just I keep going back to the fact that we're keeping students in schools. But  from the sounds of it, your school schools in Claremont are much like my school in Lebanon. In that staff are there and kids are there, but it's a complete crap show. I feel like it's not the quality of school that you think it should be, or that you want it to be,  and I think that people are misunderstanding, what it's like to actually be in school when so many teachers and students are out. So I just wanted to make that point, and I just I'm just going to cut to the chase for me. I'm I'm all for, going remote until the 19th of January. We're we're four days in. We're three days into this week from school vacation. And we've already had two schools with numerous students and staff out. So for me, it's a no brainer.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Not because I'm fearful for everybody's life, but just because it seems like a proactive measure. And Melissa was right. When she talks about educators, being proactive in their thinking.

[R11175-228] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: bit like a waffle here, but I think it's I think someone who admits that the more that they learn, and has the courage to sort of reevaluate their current positions on things. And I've been, a believer that kids need to be in school.
TEXT> However, I do see some wisdom in this one week,  this ten day break. I see wisdom there. I do think that it's going to give a chance for things to get sorted out. We'll know where we are.  One of the reasons I was adamant about not dismissing before Christmas was I wanted to see  have some evidence in the schools that things were deteriorating. I believe I'm seeing that evidence now, and so it puts me on the side where I am going to support the administration in this recommendation. And, and I think that it's as far as the, pivoting to remote, the other, where we talk about having kids come in, Will, that'll be a separate discussion. But at this point in time, I'm supporting the administration. Richard outlet. Go ahead.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Thank you. I mean, my my my position. I've stated it before, but what I'd like to share is what I've seen this week, sitting in the meetings, a couple

[R11175-234] Kathleen Bunnell | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2021-01-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: for remote. And so I'm going to let Kathleen talk about what it kind of given an overview of what it's going to look like, because we are talking live teaching. All right. So I'll let Kathleen if you're on I'll let you go ahead.
TEXT> Good evening. Is lighting up because we can't run the meeting on  two different computers in our home, so good evening. I'm happy to talk about that. This is something we've really been working on and trying to fine tune the remote instruction for all of our elementary students. We begin with the recommendations put out by the Department of Education, New Hampshire, with certain amounts of time. Teachers posted videos, much like what Mr. Ben was discussing. What we really are looking at now is moving to a much more synchronous model where teachers will be live and in person with their class on the computer, and then being able to send them off to do a task, but to still be available on computer while they're working with small groups. And so looking to structure a day that looks very much like that, that is a combination of all direct instruction in math, reading, writing and science and postal studies. Many lessons will be live. They'll also be recorded for those families that can't access them at that particular time. And so we are working very hard to get much closer to that model. I will say it has. Been helpful to get feedback from both teachers and parents on ways that we're going to evolve and continue to grow and get better at this. So thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R11175-237] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: out which I suspect is that community spread will continue, I don't I would be surprised if it actually came down until we we get a little bit more, vaccinations out in the community on routine basis, which I don't think that's going to happen.
TEXT> I think the ball is rolling now in, Claremont, unfortunately. So if our cases do not fall in two weeks, what's our plan? If we have community spread at the same level as we do now, which would be reflective in our school population, what's our pivot point going to be? Are we going to decide in two weeks if we have similar numbers, or if the trend is bobbing up and down? Are we going to say that that's not okay and that we have to continue for remote longer? Or that's my concern is that  we're not really kind of giving ourselves a we're not following an algorithm here. It's it's people are feeling overloaded. I understand that there are concerns because we have kids showing up in school that have tested positive. That's a legitimate concern. But we have great policies and procedures in place. All of our the safety net has worked. It's continuing to work. I recognize it's under more strain, but if we have we have to have a plan. Then if we're going to say we're going to go remote now because the numbers are trending up and we have kids coming to school that are testing positive, then if our numbers are still up in two weeks, what are we going to do? Do we not come back?
NEXT> Unidentified: I mean.

[R11175-246] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: mean, the transmission is not occurring in school. The more time we keep kids in school, the less transmission is going to happen to kids. The to children. I mean, it's just it just is. It's not a it's not a hypothetical. It's an is.
TEXT> Understand that because I sent home. 26 kids today that could potentially have Covid. So it's not. It's not they were exposed. They weren't potentially exposed. They were exposed. Unmasked within. They were three feet less than the six feet required by the CDC. They were three feet with a mask on. Mask does not matter at that point in time, according to Dr. Jess. I sent, like I said, I sent home almost 30 kids today that could potentially within the next couple of days have Covid. So what you're saying is that we it's not impacting our school is not true. It is impacting our school and it's impacting our school heavily. We have 21 on Monday. We had 21 elementary  school kids that we had to leave on. On Wednesday we had  like 30 middle school kids that had to have to leave.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So right. For clarification. So so you're saying the contact occurred in school, correct. So it wasn't that they were in contact with the child that had had.

[R11175-247] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: not true. It is impacting our school and it's impacting our school heavily. We have 21 on Monday. We had 21 elementary school kids that we had to leave on. On Wednesday we had like 30 middle school kids that had to have to leave.
TEXT> So right. For clarification. So so you're saying the contact occurred in school, correct. So it wasn't that they were in contact with the child that had had.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Correct. The contact happened in the school building. So the kid came to school with it, and the kid and the adult came to school with it.

[R11175-248] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: So right. For clarification. So so you're saying the contact occurred in school, correct. So it wasn't that they were in contact with the child that had had.
TEXT> Correct. The contact happened in the school building. So the kid came to school with it, and the kid and the adult came to school with it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Contracted the outside of school.

[R11175-250] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Contracted the outside of school.
TEXT> Yes. So they're sitting in in the school building having Covid,  and they had 30 kids around them that were within the short distance. So it is impacting our schools. Now. If the kid if the kid, if we were on break, that kid would have had it at home and it wouldn't have impacted those 30 kids or in staff that had to be quarantined for ten days today. So it is coming into our schools and it is coming from the outside.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It is coming from the outside. Yes.

[R11175-252] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: It is coming from the outside. Yes.
TEXT> Yes, but it is coming into our school. So I potentially have 30 kids that currently could have Covid.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So what you're suggesting is if our rate, our community spread rate is, is the same as it is today or higher, that in two weeks we will not be

[R11175-284] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: Is I think you are you're.
TEXT> So in two weeks so. Right. Right now today we're at 371. Right. So if the disruption to the school it's it's all of the conditions together. It's not a it's not a cherry pick that  it's, it's  it's all of them together. So we also anticipate I think the crux of this is in just the reality of it, as we're hearing it in Italy and we're hearing it directly from kids. And different people did travel. We saw that people traveled around the nation. We were just a subset of that. The reprieve that we're looking for right now, switching to models that have have gotten a lot better is to see that time. Now, if it if it really keeps spiking, I think we won't wait until the eve of type of thing. We're going to we're going to look at it and we'll make a decision. If we wanted to extend it. We don't want to extend it. Absolutely not.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It would be helpful if if we. Have an idea of what, what the threshold is going to be from the administrative point of view, as far as community spread,

[R11175-321] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: You.
TEXT> Like to move immediately to the administrators, request to delay new in-person students until two one of 21. Mike, do you want to just briefly.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. So the the only rationale on the the the rationale on that was, if they come in right away. We'll have it. We'll have enough time to sort it

[R11175-369] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: Oh my God day.
TEXT> My apologies. Long day. So the,  we we definitely have, I showed you some of the, the days, the elementary days, the middle school days,  we are trying to get and we're excited about we did purchase  some Roman cameras that that are going to create better, teacher stations so that they can record themselves and go out. And  Jeff and his team have been great at really focusing on the end user  in the product of technology as a tool for, for students. So we're excited about that. We do have and we praise the feedback we're getting from sometimes it's tough to hear, but but but we're not satisfied with with the degree and the scope of how we're doing the remote learning. And we want to expand on that at all grade levels. And we're focused on doing that. So it's not going away. And we hope to give updates of  of lessons and feedback from kids. In other types of, of things in the spring. So people can, can see those in demos of lessons. But to be completely honest, we're just we're just trying to keep up right now. So, but we will be back to that and it's not going away and it shouldn't go away.
NEXT> Unidentified: So any questions you have.

[R11175-394] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, sorry.
TEXT> Is that any better?  Yeah. So I just want us to be really mindful about the conversations that we're having about cohort C and, elementary students going to remote learning and talking about synchronous learning, but not being able to include the cohort C for that yet. And I know that. Well, I would hope that that would be the plan. But  I know that there's parents out there who are feeling like, cohort C has has gotten a little bit of the shaft in my experience has been pretty positive. But I, I would be a liar if I said that I knew that other kids were getting remote learning who had been in person and are doing remote learning soon, and they're getting synchronous. But my cohort C student isn't. So that's just something to think about, because when we think about things being equitable, I feel like, teachers and staff are doing the best that they can to make things equitable amongst all students, but I don't think we're there yet. We're close, but we're not there. So I just want to really make sure we pay attention to and and don't forget those students who have been cohort see all along and shouldn't be missing out on the synchronous learning once we get there. My other question was, what do you think the timeline is  for the synchronous and elementary? I know we talked about it a little bit, but what's the goal?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Well, right. Right now. They the elementary have their own teachers that do remote. Right. So they would not be going into the, the kids that are for the next

[R11175-399] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for the students of Claremont. When we went a little deeper, we we heard that that over the years, if there wasn't a program in the youth League for those students at these other area towns, they were allowed to go in the Claremont program.
TEXT> And, and it came to our attention.  They weren't conflicts. Well,  to a degree there, the the issues  at hand are if a student from another town displaces a Claremont student, either in the level of, of team that they might be if there's an A or B team or a sub team, or if there is or basically if,  if there are a lot of changes, within that team structure. The argument to do this from our perspective, in terms of recruiting and trying to get tuitions and things in this that led us to bring this to the board is, and we're going to try to continue to handle it on an individual basis, as  has happened before. But if there is the opportunity where either an existing student who is in this situation now or a future student has the opportunity to, to participate in, we assess a fee and we have a revenue coming in from that. Then it might be something we want to look at.  What I would want to do is come back to the board. It would be not for next week, but but look at this to the policy committee to see if we actually need a policy for this. But I think it would be good to be very upfront with the public or to have a if we do entertain going forward for the spring semester.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You know, we're season to have, to have something spelled out clearly if we, if we want this in or we want it out. So that's why I bring it

[R11175-409] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-06
PREV> Unidentified: I see you now.
TEXT> If if we're if I mean, I think we do have to think about if we're saying that it's unsafe for kids to come to school and we're having sports activities, that's super high. That's your highest risk activity, I.
NEXT> Unidentified: Rebecca.

[R11175-412] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Understand why.
TEXT> Doing anything sports related, if kids are not in school and are learning remotely, I know I'm a big buzz kill, but I mean, does that defeat the purpose I.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I agree. With that too. I think I misspoke I very long day okay. It's a no go.

[R11216-9] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - early-meeting cluster; chai | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, so we have an agenda in front of us tonight. Is everyone had a chance to look at the agenda? Any changes to the agenda?
TEXT> Yeah. I,  Frank, I think we, we missed  Prescott student.  Report.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. So I had that in.

[R11216-31] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: been 97 cases at Sullivan County Nursing Home and Correctional Facility. Many of our students and their parents work there. There has been an outbreak at Cedar Hill Nursing Home in Windsor. We have students from the high school as well as parents working there.
TEXT> We have a very large number of high school students that work at Market Basket, Hannaford, McDonald's as well as Walmart. Safest decision would be to stay out until after February vacation into March, at least two weeks after vacation. Then all in for the rest of the year. On the other hand, at least until after vacation. But then we know the argument will be what about the travelers? In and out will shut down when it in and out with shutdowns is way more disruptive to parents, students and staff than just staying remote. Stacey, in our own town and school systems should always be the goal of the greater good. We still have some of the highest numbers in the state right now. Some of our school numbers are not being accurately counted as a child or staff member that is affected. It does not matter if they were in school during their affected period. They're still a member of the school community and we never really knew. No, no, sometimes whom they may have actually affected. We have heard student participation is generally good right now with over 80%. I'm assuming this is referring to remote at Maple, for example. Of course we could be wrong.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We are already remote and people are adjusting now. So in theory, it is better to continue in this period for a bit longer than go back in and risk

[R11216-32] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: community and we never really knew. No, no, sometimes whom they may have actually affected. We have heard student participation is generally good right now with over 80%. I'm assuming this is referring to remote at Maple, for example. Of course we could be wrong.
TEXT> We are already remote and people are adjusting now. So in theory, it is better to continue in this period for a bit longer than go back in and risk being shut down again. We shut down various schools, but not all. This also puts a strain on families that have kids in multiple schools. We have a wide fluctuation in Claremont numbers since Friday going up and down. This is not a safe trend to see heading back to school. If we had seen it continually down since Friday, maybe. But that is not the case. Even though there are many people in Claremont, people that believe differently, you would have to think about the total sum and how it would possibly affect everyone. If our numbers start to rage out of control because we did not do everything we should have when we could have, then we will have a disaster. We are still educating and taking care of our families remote and we are doing it safely at this time. What is wrong with that? Many of our staff are an older population and they are scared to death. Take them out and what will be left? Another school shutdown. This too shall pass. And we just have to do what we need to to make it through the best we can, unscathed.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: If that means being remote for a bit longer, then so be it. So that's from the, from Miss Seven. On behalf of the nurses. Other citizens comments.

[R11216-50] Rick Deschenes | Public commenter, spring track and fall coach at Stevens HS (ASR 'Mr.  | 2021-02-03
PREV> Rick Deschenes: or going remote and actually, terminating or or curtailing, not terminating, but curtailing the the sports season seem like the right thing to do. But in my heart, I didn't feel like it was. And but that doesn't mean anything. My feeling doesn't mean anything.
TEXT> I tried to seek out some numbers to to see if I was. I was correct. And, you know, what I sent along to,  was a chart based on  my research on the New Hampshire website, the Covid, specifically the Covid  slash schools.  Tab on that website. And  I, I researched the, the cases within the school systems of knowing our school system. But the systems,  of the, the schools that we actually would be playing this fall, basketball teams and so on. And, I'm sorry, I don't really have a great way of showing you that chart, but if you have an opportunity,  and have access to that email,  you, you might see what I saw in the and that was the, the, the, the active cases. And within our school system right now  are actually just a number at one. That was as of the 2020 fifth, there was one case active within the school system  that that the the website defined a case  within the system as either staff member or a student.  It also gave the total number of recovered cases within each system.
NEXT> Rick Deschenes: So we had two recovered cases in one active case going down through. And I don't I'd have to do this from memory, which I can't, can't do at this

[R11216-61] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (only 'Prescott' said on this reco | 2021-02-03
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Stevens High School's website in order to to access it at CMS. The yearbooks are now on sale. You can order one at Justin's dot com, and order forms are also available in the CMS office. Whenever we're able to return back to the school.
TEXT> And then at Disney, they have been 100% remote with everybody else and have been very happy with the attendance and participation they've been seeing from students. And the teachers love seeing students each day for Monday mornings, whole class instruction meets, special meets, and small group meets.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That it. Thank you. Thank you Prescott. So let's move to the superintendent's report.

[R11216-69] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the next slide please. That's still the 74 slide. Next slide. I know I had a duplicate in there. You can you keep going. It's just there we go. So this shows that we're at 63. Yesterday. Okay. Today. I didn't go back. One, please.
TEXT> Here we go. Back one slide. All right.  So you see the decline to 63. Remember that was 63 from 101 just a week before. Very very positive downward trend. And if you remember, the vaccinated number that you saw in the first slide was 5.2. That's 5.9 going up again, a positive trend. The difference between the state and the county. It does go up and down. That gap has closed from 57 to 53. But overall, if you go to the next slide, I'll show you the what I was talking about with the The matrix that have or or. Next one. Okay. So now I'm sorry, these are questions that the members of the board have asked that we've tried to answer as best we could. After this, I'll show you the new matrix. I forgot the order. I'm sorry. So some of the questions, and we wanted to kind of get those right out there. Board members send these to us, and we figure if they have them. Other members of the public do. When other members of the public send us stuff, we try to put it in there as well.  So, these questions were regarding what we know about the transmission number in school.  And where they are. So  there have been cases, both adult and students in the school buildings. More in the middle and high.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: However, we've had cases in the elementary. Just to summarize, question was raised if the long term Covid numbers that are happening in unity have kind of assisted, assume that

[R11216-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: give props to my wife about the New York Times article because she on on Fear of retribution. She wanted credit for that. Even though the whole the whole country is talking about that article and in its relation to the Jama article as well.
TEXT> Where they talk about several of the things that some of our board members have been saying about the safest place being in schools, which we've heard and heard. But this, this reference list, really, that I got from from that article and then looking at their references. It's really compelling, the data that you see in these studies over and over, different countries, different regions of our country. But a lot of consistency is about having kids in school and the benefits of it. And we've heard of the tragedies in other parts of the country of suicide rates increasing and the mental strain on students and unspeakable things that, that, that are, that are happening there. But again, this will be posted. All those are live links and you can follow those. It's just some great articles to talk about the rationale and it's very, very current. This was yesterday. But but a really thorough studies. Next slide please. More of the reference material. Next slide please. Mr.. Mom sorry. Sorry for making this so long. Okay. So this this is the new, metric. And you can see the positivity rate.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And they have the criteria, more specifically, the Covid PCR test positivity as a seven day average where it should be. And that that is high. It's a little bit

[R11216-78] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: day with every single staff member, with our protocols, with our masking, with now a lot of folks are double masking and they're they're exceeding it in our barriers and in the schedules and the all the time and planning it obviously it has worked.
TEXT> Our the spike that we saw recently came after an extended break. And we're hoping that we, that we fare well with when the students come back and we're very, very positive. That having students back is the way to go beginning on Monday. So that's that's our recommendation. And if I can just.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: If I can just add on to that, one of the things that we are asking, you know, as we do bring our students back. We do know that we

[R11216-89] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-02-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: that said, I'd like to make a motion. We can have some discussion after. I like to make the motion that we follow the superintendent's recommendation, with return to in-person, for all schools starting Monday, February 1st, which would include the return to winter sports.
TEXT> I second, the second that. So the motion was made by Mike patron and it was seconded by Rob Lovett. Mary. Further. That is further discussion at this time. I just want to I want to speak to this. I just want to echo what Mike Peterson just said, that, really, in my mind, the purpose of a hybrid schedule is to reduce the number of the school so that you can do. Kids in the cafeteria. You don't have that many kids in the hallways. So I want to echo what Mike said about that. And I also want to echo what he said about taking safety precautions. The things that's been here to me, the reason  that, it is so, the rates are so low in the schools is because we are so vigilant with masking, social distancing. And that's what I'm hearing. Every time anybody on the news starts talking about things in schools, I'm hearing the same message. And the fact that we're, you know, in kudos to the staff and the administration, certainly. But that's one of the reasons why it's low is because we're doing exactly what Mike just said is that we're taking those precautions while we're in school. So other comments, Carolyn, go ahead.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I want to compliment everybody's work ethic because because of that, we've kept the transmission in the schools and in generally in the lower ranks of the other areas. In

[R11216-199] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: the. I'd like to have the retreat in person. And again, obviously, if people, need to be remote, of course they can be remote, but I'd like to have it in person because, you know, it just works better that way. I think. Other comments.
TEXT> If I can just if I can add something out of that. We started pre, pre-registration for kindergarten. It started yesterday and we sent something out to, to families. And I'm happy to say that we've already had 40 students pre-registered for kindergarten for next year. So that was great. Just in one day to have 4040 students preregister. And so if anyone has a student that will be going into kindergarten next year, if you could please go on to our website  and register them for kindergarten. It would be greatly appreciated. Jason has a question.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I don't think it's a question. Go ahead Jason.

[R11216-201] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2021-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: I don't think it's a question. Go ahead Jason.
TEXT> No, it actually is before I go for that one. But, just for clarification sake, I had somebody send me a message. They were having trouble getting on to zoom. But they wanted to clarify. I returned back on February 1st. Does that include the cohorts? Any kids that want to come back?
NEXT> Unidentified: That's really.

[R11216-203] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: That's really.
TEXT> They should have received anyone that is coming back for cohorts. They should have received a call from their school. So if they received a call from their school, then yes, but that would have meant they followed the they fill out the survey. They've already had their class schedule done, so they would have received a call from the  the school that their child goes to. If that is the case then yes, they would. They would if they did not receive a strong call from the school, then they should call the school tomorrow and see if, you know, maybe they didn't answer the phone or something had happened. So you need to call the school.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thank you for the clarification.

[R11262-8] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Richard Seaman: service will be down year over year by 11 million. I'm sorry, 11,948. This is just the pay down of principal. So therefore a lower level of interest that is being paid. Special education out of district at the elementary level is down by 3.99654.
TEXT> And this is the result of  some of our programs that have been put in place for the  over the last two years. Ben can speak to it in more detail if there were questions, but we're basically finding that we're able to keep our kiddos in our school district, as opposed to having them move out of district. The $120,000 that we still have in there for proposed for next year relates to,  a contingency. If we get a child that comes into the district,  we have the dollars because we're required to  provide them with the free, inadequate education, even if it means moving them out of district for each one of our locations, starting with bluff. Bluff is seeing a pretty large increase to $342,000. This is a result of two programs that we put in place at bluff. One of them is,  is a. Called the Brave program. I'm just pulling it up here so I can remember what they are. Ben, are you on the line?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yes, Richard. I'm here.

[R11262-12] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Ben Nester: with them at the end of this year and continue to operate that program in-house, at a reduced rate. So we want to keep the program going, but we want to do it at a reduced rate by any of our contract with with NEC.
TEXT> Thank you.  The Maple Avenue  slight reduction, there is actually a movement of some of the teachers out of regular ed and into the special ed program. So you're seeing a movement from the Maple Avenue  over to the over to the Bluff School. This is relatively flat. Most of that increase is just related to contractual  increases required for based on our negotiated agreements with teachers,  secretaries, paraprofessionals, maintenance,  and  the transportation workers at Claremont Middle School, increase of about 239,000 is almost solely related to out of district placements for special needs  students, and this is those that have either come out of the elementary, up into the middle school, or those that have come into the district over the course of the past year. The same thing can be said for the Stevens High School increase. Gave the example at the board meeting last week that we did have two students that moved into our district over this past summer and had to be out placed,  to to specific programs, which cost the districts about $500,000 for those two students.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So whereas they weren't in the budget last year because we didn't know the students were going to be in our district, they are in for next year. And there's

[R11262-13] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Richard Seaman: increase. Gave the example at the board meeting last week that we did have two students that moved into our district over this past summer and had to be out placed, to to specific programs, which cost the districts about $500,000 for those two students.
TEXT> So whereas they weren't in the budget last year because we didn't know the students were going to be in our district, they are in for next year. And there's a continuation of the placement  needs that we have, the Alternative Support Program or Pride. It has a new  program which we're looking to put in place for next year, which is  an autism program that would be located up at sugar River Valley. We have three students that are currently out placing  at about 60 to 60 to 70 to $80,000 per student. Those students will be able to be brought back into the district. So there's an offset of running the program internally, but we're not going to have to be sending the  tuition and transportation money to another location. And that's a continuation of the discussion,  which Mike and  Ben had started up a couple of years ago, of putting the programs internally, keeping our kiddos within the district, and also looking to marketing these,  to surrounding districts as an alternative to what they're having to do with their out of district placements.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Sugar River Valley Technical Center the increased air is related really to two areas. One is we had to put in place, a health program or a nurse program this

[R11262-16] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Richard Seaman: looking at a reduction in the budget year over year, the 417,000. And then as we work our way down, we incorporate the warrants that we're funded for this year's budget compared to next year's. We're looking at a at a reduction of 1.55 million.
TEXT> If we go on to the next page, which is on the anticipated revenues. Let's hold for a moment, if we could, on the district assessment, which is increasing by the $541,000. So on tuition, we are looking at having our tuition increase,  by the 600 to 750. And this is just known students that are coming in, whether it be from unity or the surrounding communities that are coming in. So increasing the estimate there. No change in our tuition for vocational education, transportation fees. Interesting come pupil activity fees. The other, which is estimated to be flat, is basically contributions. The donations which are received by the school district fund balance to reduce taxes estimated at $400,000. That's seems to be a pretty consistent surplus that  comes along year after year. Also including the fact that we have the contingency fund that that is that is approved, that can be provided back. And then the board has requested that we include $400,000 from the Special Ed Expendable Trust, which was approved a year ago, December. There was 650 that was put into this expendable trust. And with the increase of  some of the special education services that we're providing next year, is that they would be funded from 400,000. Of that, 650 would be brought into revenue next year.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The next part, talking on state sources, is the reduction of $3.3 million of adequate education grants. Now, we knew we had three point approximately $2.9 million of it, which

[R11262-17] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Richard Seaman: December. There was 650 that was put into this expendable trust. And with the increase of some of the special education services that we're providing next year, is that they would be funded from 400,000. Of that, 650 would be brought into revenue next year.
TEXT> The next part, talking on state sources, is the reduction of $3.3 million  of adequate education grants. Now, we knew we had three point approximately $2.9 million of it, which was one time money that we received this year that would not carry over the next year. So the actual reduction in adequacy grants is about 300 and $340,000. I believe it is that we have to make us. So this is reduced the amount of adequacy, spending  or adequacy grants that we're receiving from the state. This is offset, to a degree by a slight increase in the state property tax. Even though the state property tax was reduced from 1.925 to 1.825 year over year. Just because of the increase in our grand list, we're seeing a slight increase their catastrophic aid. It looks as if the state is funding more at more accurately for next year, and therefore our estimate on catastrophic aid. Now what this is for larger cost  special education programs.  Once we get above, I believe it's a $60,000 number for any individual student. We receive reimbursement back from the state, and it's up to the state to fund this.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: They often do not fund it at the full amount that they should ask for, but the estimate we're anticipating for next year would be 600 zero. And Medicaid, as

[R11262-216] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We have our first we had again, this was it's increased since then in a, assistant Superintendent Megan can can comment on on the increases as well. But at that time this morning, we had 22 staff who either had Covid or were quarantined since.
TEXT> And they will be out until 126. We have our first official cluster and again, that is transmission between people from inside the school. That happened. And, we would ask, in other words, 99 cases today. I think there was a slight dip. They just published that right before I had already sent this out. We dipped down to 95, but it still has been holding consistently and climbing, so I wouldn't see that. And if you look at this slide to the right, when you start looking at the the company that we're in now of, of larger cities, it's what you would expect, as I believe with the eighth largest city in in New Hampshire. But, you're seeing communities much closer to the Massachusetts line. Who have who we're passing and much larger cities. You know, obviously the Concordes and the National were and  Manchester are way up there, but we're creeping into 100. So it's it's dangerous. Dangerous where we are. And at this time, we want to  push. And I would be asking the board to continue remote for another two weeks till we come back. Next slide is a positive slide I wanted to put in there, and that is that we have a lot of students who want to come back in full when we are back in full.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: From the recent survey information, the elementary principals have been working really hard. We have 65 more students who will be with us when we do come back on. On

[R11262-217] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: continue remote for another two weeks till we come back. Next slide is a positive slide I wanted to put in there, and that is that we have a lot of students who want to come back in full when we are back in full.
TEXT> From the recent survey information, the elementary principals have been working really hard. We have 65 more students who will be with us when we do come back on. On if the board votes on that to come back in February 1st. It's very positive news. We have more people as well, who are going to go to the middle and  high school that are most recently who are going to come back when we are all safe in person. And we hope that that is just two weeks out. But at this time, with the precipitous spike that we have, I think it would it would be, we talked in the last meeting that if it was about the same or declined and it is increased  a lot, and we didn't expect that we would actually get a cluster. We are very fortunate, in my opinion, that we did pivot to remote when we did, or that would have been a lot more, there would have been a lot more people out.  And I don't know,  Donna, if you want to comment on the number of.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Yeah, if, if I could, I would very much appreciate it. That's great. And I'm going based on the numbers. That is just from me. So it's the through contact

[R11262-218] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: very fortunate, in my opinion, that we did pivot to remote when we did, or that would have been a lot more, there would have been a lot more people out. And I don't know, Donna, if you want to comment on the number of.
TEXT> Yeah, if, if I could, I would very much appreciate it. That's great. And I'm going based on the numbers. That is just from me. So it's the through contact tracing, the numbers of the number of people that I have actually, put out on quarantine or in isolation. So this has nothing to do with, you know, if a parent calls and says, you know,  I, I was around my child was around somebody that had Covid and so I need to take them out of school. This is strictly in school. People have been around and I've had to do contact tracing and have staff members and children removed out of our school. So since Wednesday. So I'm going from Wednesday to today.  I have and I hate the way this sounds to say put out, but, and I do want to say that I spoke with someone today and it was it was actually, maybe chuckle which was, which is good because, you know, having to do this is not fun. But he, it said to me, you're calling me so much lately that you're coming up as spam now, you know, because, I mean, the number of calls that are coming in. So it kind of made me smile a little bit, but, you know, that that was a joke that he made to me. But so as from Wednesday to today, I have  put out on quarantine or isolation, 80 people.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: It's eight zero. We're talking 27 staff members in that and that 80 people. So I've put out a total of 80. And as I said before, this does not

[R11262-221] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: I know. There we go. Go ahead Heather.
TEXT> What's her actual positive rate in the cluster. Like how many children in that cluster are actually positive  and how is it determined that it was transmitted in school?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Because what you what we do is we look at the place where we have three. Let me answer your question. I and I can't say whether it's remember, I

[R11262-222] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: What's her actual positive rate in the cluster. Like how many children in that cluster are actually positive and how is it determined that it was transmitted in school?
TEXT> Because what you what we do is we look at the place where we have three. Let me answer your question. I and I can't say whether it's remember, I can't allude to whether it's a child or so I can't say kids, but we have three positive in one location. And when you look at the timing of that and they were together, that's how you can determine what a cluster looks like. So in you know, so that's how we determine it. That's how the the cluster gets determined is that way. So we have three positives in one situation where it looks to be that they've given it to each other to one person has given it to others. And just as we've been speaking, just as we've been on the phone, I and before the meeting, I had a couple of parents say to me that they're they have a couple of kids that are now, looking at getting tested only because they were put out on a quarantine.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason, did you have a question?

[R11262-224] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason, did you have a question?
TEXT> So I was asked a question earlier to ask in the meeting by a community member. And it's very similar to what? Heather just asked. However, I just want to confirm that I have the answer. Right.  The question they asked is, how many confirmed cases of Covid have been transmitted in school, and how many additional cases have been confirmed have have been passed on to others through contact tracing? So based on what Donna said, are we saying that three cases have through contact tracing, we know of three cases that have come from a student  and or a person in the school to other people.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Correct. Okay.

[R11262-236] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: This is tough for me because, you know, we're not in lockdown. And if we're trying to or are we trying to reduce the numbers in the community? I mean, I'm I'm not sure what we're trying to achieve here. It's very frustrating to me.
TEXT> Well, Heather, I think I think what I look at is that's a parent's choice, right? So if the parent decides that they want to send their child to a camp and be exposed to Covid, that's their choice. Parents are not choosing to send their kids to school. They're sending their kids to school because, you know, that we that that we're doing that, right. We're keeping those.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No. And I'm not that. It's parents twice. What I'm saying is, if the goal is to get kids back to school and we're struggling to justify them coming back

[R11262-244] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: So what you're saying is if, if if this if there's this number on February 1st, we can come back to school.
TEXT> But if that's what I'm asking, I guess what I'm asking is what are you asking for? I'm only hearing a date, and so far dates don't work. Because things change. So what are we going to accept as a board, as the metric to return to school? And, you know, I kind of through this out to, Mike earlier is my concern is as we come up on school vacations, personally, I don't think our numbers are going to drop. Ruger just wasn't crazy. There's an outbreak in Ruger right now in Newport, so I'm sure we have a lot of families, that work at Ruger. So we're in a pickle here, and we have to come up with a really good plan on how we're going to navigate this. So  folks don't have the herky jerky that we're going, that we're doing. And if we have school vacations coming up again, that means kids are home for a week,  and there seems to be a lot of anxiety with kids being home. Meaning that believing that there's going to be an increase in, exposure, if they're not back in school, but they're better off at home than in school, which I don't agree with. But I just don't feel comfortable voting on dates anymore.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think that part of it, Heather, with with the vacations has not necessarily been the fact that they're home. My understanding, it's the fact that people travel and go

[R11262-269] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-13
PREV> Donna Magoon: this was the one from DHHS that that came out the day like the day before, the day that we had the meeting and it was approved by the school board. That's the matrix we should be following. And I would look at it right.
TEXT> Agree with you. But there's more complexity in there. So yes, high community spread but we not high numbers does not necessarily translate to high community spread. If we have 200 and it stays there for five weeks, if we have if we have 200 positives, is that high community spread according to, you know, perceptions? If it's a stable high number, what do we say then. Do you see what I'm it's. Yeah. No I do, I do. So it's a little bit, it's a little bit stickier. It's a stickier wicket than it looks like. And I recognize right now  with 27 people out it's a no brainer. There's a there's no way you could provide educational services to students in school.  I mean with that number alone it's a no brainer. And I hate I hate to say that, you know, how much I hate to say that, but really hate to say that. But it's a no brainer. And it's high school impact. So for sure. But you can have 200. You could have a high number in the community that becomes a stable number. And do we just say, no, we're not coming back because there's 200.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But would we have to make a determination, find out how many staff can come back, how many staff are ready to come back February 1st or second, whatever it

[R11262-303] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it's a little bit more substantial than that. And I know that we're not done with some of those as well. So, it's a lot. It's a lot. So we're we're hoping as soon as possible. Jason. So, and we are thinking positively on that.
TEXT> Jason I also want to make you aware that just because there may be a case that is in, the middle school does not mean it does not impact the elementary level. Because there may be siblings or other or family members, you know, family members in the other buildings such as that. But there may be, staff or students out in the elementary level that have not come back yet because they're under quarantine. So they're not in my numbers. Does that make sense? So I didn't quarantine them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay Mike patron.

[R11262-317] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: those things. But I feel like we skipped right to remote, and I'm personally fine with that, but I wanted to understand the reasoning behind that. I know, Mr. Tempesta. You said it had to do with consistency and such. And I agree with that.
TEXT> I would just like to make sure that we pay attention to that. Moving forward, if we are going to be following the matrix. The other thing is, when I think about elementary schools, it makes it's easier for me to think about elementary students going back to school as opposed to middle school and high school kids or elementary students staying in school. But then when I think about all of the  elementary students who have siblings in the middle school and high school, and I just have to take that into consideration to, I'll stop. I'll stop with that right there. One other thing I wanted to mention is cohorts. Do you students. And I know right now we're talking about, going to full remote, but I really think there needs to be an honest and hard core conversation in regard to how the cohort see students are, having to deal with all the changes for for all the rest of the in-person. It's definitely, learning for cohort C students, I feel has definitely, not been up to par. And I don't think that has anything to do with the teachers or people who are trying to do their best. But we really, really no matter what we decide tonight, we need to start paying attention to the cohort C students. And I'll just give an example of what I mean.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So the elementary schools moved from in-person to synchronous learning. And there are cohort C students who all they've wanted this whole time and all their parents have wanted this

[R11262-318] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: to do with the teachers or people who are trying to do their best. But we really, really no matter what we decide tonight, we need to start paying attention to the cohort C students. And I'll just give an example of what I mean.
TEXT> So the elementary schools moved from in-person to synchronous learning. And there are cohort C students who all they've wanted this whole time and all their parents have wanted this whole time, is for them to be participating synchronously with their classrooms as well. But many of those cohort C students are still having to watch recorded lessons. And their meets have been moved, and they're not getting the quality of education that I feel that they really should be getting. So I would like someone to just assure me that that is going to be a hot topic over in the next few days, even though we have a lot of stuff going on.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that is a topic that we have been talking about and we're trying to get more, What we found to be troubling, and I think it's demonstrated with the

[R11262-322] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: So.
TEXT> I'm sorry to interrupt you, Mike. Just a point of clarification, though. I think I just want to be very clear. And in what I'm saying. Cohort C students have had to juggle a variety of things based off the decisions made for in-person students. And what I'm specifically talking about right now is, at the elementary level, the synchronous learning that's happening, I have heard from several different people, and I have my own experiences to add to this, but what is happening at the elementary level is not equitable amongst all students at this point. So I would just encourage you guys to start looking. I don't know what your guidelines were for all teachers. You know, in-person teachers who have just switched to remote learning and cohort C teachers. But it seems to be a real disconnect amongst all of them. So I will reach out to you, and I would encourage parents to continue to reach out to you. I know you guys have your hands full. I know it. But I don't want to. I don't want to let this one go to the back burner again.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: We never have.

[R11262-349] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (title attested on the 2/1/2021 deli | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well, I would draw my motion, and I will. I'd like to hear Heather's.
TEXT> I would like a motion to reevaluate on the 22nd of January using the Covid impact matrix to determine when students would be able, when it was safe for students in individual schools to return in person, with a target date being February 1st.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: 22nd, or 27th.

[R11262-395] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Donna Magoon: question questions? Sure. Sports is still a no. That wasn't in the motion. I just want to make sure I, I know I, I agree, I just know people are going to bombard me with question. And so I just want to make sure, okay.
TEXT> If we're not safe enough to be in school with kids, how can you possibly say we're safe enough to have them bumping into each other?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I agree 100% with you. Jason, I just wanted to. I wanted to make sure. So that way people don't say, well, the board didn't say that. I just want

[R11276-67] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: Of.
TEXT> Of following up on our strategic plan. Kind of something from the before time,  before Covid, slightly before, and a little bit after. And  in our goals  in this budget, follow along. That and those goals were to increase teaching and learning as a six for student improvement, increasing the student time on learning and the  curriculum and what students can take. Recruiting and retaining the best and brightest staff  possible. Expanding our safety. Our efforts are creating district programs  for special ed students and others, other programs,  and just revamping the governance structure. So,  it was a  great process. I think we're we're in a really good position  to expand and go forward.  And I'm going to kick off the, the numbers  to, to Richard Seaman. But we're, we're we're very comfortable with the budget.  A lot of time went into it and,  and I'd like to thank everyone involved.  Richard, if you have the the floor with the presentation skills.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Are there. Now we're going to give it a go.

[R11276-76] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: that moved into the district, after we completed last year's budget. But we're we are covering the expense in this year's actual operations that that cost the district close to a half $1 million for the two out of district placements that we have there.
TEXT> And Ben and his team are looking at, you know, what can we do if there's anything we can do to bring those kiddos back into the district and run programs within the districts to cover that? But as of right now, we're still looking at the out of district placements, the alternative support program, which we call pride, is being expanded next year to include a  high school level autism program. This is allowing us to bring back  three students who are currently out placed and bring them back into the district, which again is consistent with the strategy that was put in place.  When the superintendent Tempesta joined in a couple of years ago.  So we we are putting that that program in place. It'll be located at sugar River Technical Center on the second floor, and  looking forward to seeing the benefit from that. We also housed also have significant interest from surrounding communities, who may look at sending some of their kiddos to this program as it might be more affordable or certainly closer, and again, be able to address some of the transportation issues. Sugar River Valley Technical Center  The reason for the increase. There is really two additional positions which we should have in the building and put them in place this year, one of them being a nurse position.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We had been trying to cover the nurse requirements out of the middle school, but with the pandemic going on, we really needed to have our own nurse within the

[R11276-81] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: no Warren articles for this year. So when we take a look at totally what was funded last year, 39.3 million, including the Warren articles, compared to what is requested this year at 37.785, we're looking at a reduction in the budget of $1.55 million.
TEXT> You'll go on now to the estimated revenues. And again, this should be a familiar format for anyone who has participated in these meetings over the years. I'm going to hold the district assessment for a bit. You're seeing it increase by $540,000. And again, the district is assessment is what needs to be funded. Once all other revenues have been incorporated. Then we look at the district assessment assessment and say, okay, what what needs to be covered with the district assessment on tuition. The first line down, we're seeing an increase in tuition from  this year to next year. We do have some more students that are that are coming into the district and incorporating that into our expectations. Tuition on vocational is kept level to this year as our transportation fees, interest income, pupil activities and the other  tends to be contributions that are made  from many different groups and tends to be a pretty level amount of of support that comes in at the 175,000 funds that are come from the balance or fund balance to reduce tax,
NEXT> Richard Seaman: to reduce taxes pretty consistently over as many years. Going backward, though, we try to have a budget that spot on, we do tend to report a surplus in that

[R11276-83] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: money out to, to third parties. So the board approved and requested the expenditure of 400,000. Of that, 650 would be included in next year. When we go down to the next one below, we're looking at state resources, adequate education grants and stabilization grants.
TEXT> We all are familiar with this with this topic. As I had continued to say last year, the state provided to Claremont and to all districts at a different level, but to Claremont, they provided $2.9 million of one time money, and that was used to basically fund the capital improvements and the and the  and the funding to the,  expendable trust that we had last year, but we knew it was not recurring. However, on top of that, the due to a reduction in the number of primarily students that we have with the increase of home schooling that took place during the pandemic, we're seeing a reduction in adequacy education grant that came from the state. So we're having to absorb a $392,000 reduction in the adequacy in the adequacy grant from last year to this year. So when we take that, that 2.9 and the 392, that's what accounts for that $3.3 million worth of reduction in adequacy education, 2.9, we expected, and $392,000, which we absolutely did not expect.  But the state has has chosen that to be the funding level. State property tax increases just slightly, even though the state property tax was dropped by 0.1%  because of our increase in the grand in the Grand List for Claremont, the actual amount that we raised by it is increased slightly catastrophic aid, which really isn't called catastrophic aid anymore.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: It's basically support for when we have very expensive out of district placement students that once it goes over three times the average cost for a student, the state begins

[R11276-84] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: just slightly, even though the state property tax was dropped by 0.1% because of our increase in the grand in the Grand List for Claremont, the actual amount that we raised by it is increased slightly catastrophic aid, which really isn't called catastrophic aid anymore.
TEXT> It's basically support for when we have very expensive out of district placement students that once it goes over three times the average cost for a student,  the state begins to reimburse the local district. And historically that has sometimes been funded and sometimes not been funded. So it's always been sort of a guess as to how much we're going to receive. We have received direction for next year based on what our anticipated expenditures are in the $600,000 area, and therefore I've included that in for next year. It's a significant increase, but it's really thanks to the fact that in the budget, the state actually funded this,  this expenditure and Medicaid. Again, for those who remember our discussion last year, the Medicaid went through some statutory changes last year, which caused us to reduce our expectation for Medicaid from a historic $500,000 number down to 260. We have worked through those changes. At the statutory level, the state has provided some avenues by which we can continue to receive our Medicaid money. And therefore,  the estimate for that has been increased back to the 500,000. So an increase over what ours was this year. So now if we go back up here to the very first line and say, okay, the district assessment or what needs to be paid by you and me, the local, the local tax payer, we're looking at an increase of $541,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So even though we've had some increases in some of the revenue expenditures, the decreases that we're having to cover from the state reductions result in that increase of $541,000.

[R11276-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Yes. No, I'm Superintendent Tempesta. Did you have anything you wanted to add?
TEXT> No,  I didn't. I think it was pretty well covered. I do want to say,  when we're talking about the 584,000 in reductions,  many of those.  That's not all people,  you know, losing positions and things like that. More than half of that money is  what's known as turnover savings, meaning we've had we you know, sadly, we've lost some really incredibly,  experience and talented teachers. But basically when they replaced it, people coming in lower in the step,  there's a significant amount of savings. We've also looked to,  have  savings and consolidate  some positions  and  kind of a consolidation of a sped position of, of a district wide  curriculum positions we're looking at. And so all of those things are in the mix. There's still some things,  that that will be,  you know, presented in detail. We still have a ways to go. The  middle school and high school schedules are not,  completed yet and things like that. But our focus is to put the  emphasis on the courses that students need  to complete,  you know, their years at Stevens School and in their whole,  you know, K-12 education. And,  and we're looking closely at those things with historical enrollments and kind of in kind of a shift towards  what's popular for for our, for students and what they need. So,  all of it in line with the strategic plan and but,  but but it's shaping up quite nicely.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: So thank you. Superintendent Michael Tempesta and assistant superintendent, Richard Siemens, any registered voters wishing to speak for or against article two, the main budget? I remind you comments, concerns

[R11281-27] Mrs. Pope | School district moderator (addressed 'Mrs. Pope' and 'Madam moderator' | 2021-02-04
PREV> Mrs. Pope: Hanover Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. Voters participating in drive thru voting will be required to press the driver's license or state issued identification card against the window of their vehicle to be checked in. Walk through voting will be allowed in all three voting places.
TEXT> As in any city election, absentee voting will also be available. Absentee registration is allowed is allowed for residential or temporarily absent from the city, such as college students and residents who are physically disabled and unable to appear in person. The supervisors of the checklist will be meeting at the City Clerk's Office Saturday, February 27th, 2021, from 11 to 11:30 a.m. to register voters who are unable to register during regular City Clerk's office business hours. That concludes tonight's meeting. Good night.
NEXT> 

[R11390-3] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: posted from Mr. Dupree Dupree who sent them over to us, as well as the hockey hockey tournament. And we're looking forward a few more items talking about this theme, but it was a great season for what it for the season that we had.
TEXT> And again, particularly just  just competing, just getting out there,  returning, it  was shortened  at certain times. But I really thank the student athletes and the coaches and everyone for just persevering.  Just like, you know, the teachers and everyone has done this year.  Throughout. So the next slide, please. This was the best thing I've done in a while. And the first thing of about that was I didn't wake up doing this slide is from seven weeks ago.  If you look at that, when we were very optimistic that we were declining,  from the mid 70s to 63  is the number that you see on the slide. This is from January 26th, right before the meeting, as we did before and prepping and, and,  I mean, it's it's amazing taking days off now and not really looking and seeing it. And just that not that being  the reflexive thing that the  educators have had to do.  And if you look at the next slide, this compared to the next slide, you see, then you had 5057 cases. You had 5.9% vaccinated.  The next slide  you can see  and this was from the 12th actually five days ago when I sent it out to the board.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You just see the diminishment of the high risk. And if you look to the far lower left and you see the trend line and you see it below at,

[R11390-8] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we're, we're we're hopeful that we can carry some of those lessons learned towards, different platforms and things like that and supports for students. We are often running on the recruiting, the best and the brightest. We we have a, again, our budget is approved.
TEXT> We have  some  many  retirements. It we're looking forward. We have some  online  hiring fairs  for,  at area colleges. And we already have interview scheduled, which is exciting that that we're getting  kind of that first crack at the hiring pool.  That our principles are really excited about,  school safety efforts,  social emotional learning and  student wealth fair as we return to normalcy. And,  I have  a  head of us, we have a few slides, and we're going to talk about with the second  round of CARES money, how we're going to  look to have some summer programing and some extended day  and extended morning programing to come next school year as well, to fill in the gaps. We know, just generally speaking, that,  for all intents and purposes, we had a very diminished year, to say the least,  with the with  with Covid and in real time, we have to catch students up as best we can, and we're going to have to take some aggressive  measures to do that. As to all school districts across the nation.  But the  money that we're receiving in terms of putting in for extra time planning and access for for everyone. We're excited about that.  We have still looking at our special ed programing and our, our,  our different, supports that we have within the district and some  programs that we've started to  bring more students back.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're going to look at the governance structure. And I've had the pleasure of talking to our new board members this week, just like I did with the existing

[R11390-10] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: who are in person per school and also throughout the district and who is remote. And we are almost 80% dead on in person. And we have been since February 1st. And that's five days a week all across the district, elementary, middle and high.
TEXT> You can see the exact percentages there. We started to,  working with the administrative team. We're looking at what it will take to have as many students back as possible,  knowing as they they have been reaching out. And we've been informed that there are some parents and families who still, you know, might stick it out remotely, but we're still trying for it to get five, ten, however many more percent  back  that we can. And  the principals in their teams are working hard to reach out and literally get that  sample size of making calls directly to everyone who's currently  remote. And we're assembling that information, looking at folks who  need  bussing and other types of impacts.  We're we're looking at the the bus configurations, the routes.  Looking at air purifiers on the bus and all kinds of things to to try to max out the, the,  the bus  loads for everyone so that we can get more people in. And we also there's a lot of work, particularly at the elementary as well, where we have two platforms. We have some students  who are being taught remotely by teachers who are also remote. And as we're looking at this, that's what we have a couple of meetings coming up to. We may have to have some teachers come back.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We don't know exactly what the impact will be. We will have all of that, with the with in finality for the next meeting. But we're we're still in process

[R11390-15] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: program. And from 830 to 430 that we are hoping to use the CARES money to offer completely free of cost, including pick up and drop off at the homes so that we can have at the elementary level it will of which I'm speaking.
TEXT> Now. You will have  a morning of academics fund related to academics with a Steam focus,  and in the afternoons we've partnered in very excited about the ideas that the Community Center has had.  We're going to help hire staff. They're going to do some of the enrollment in the in the feedback, as well as as some of the staffing,  together with,  again, all of this funded by outside grant money from the district. That's coming from  from from the CARES act. And  we think we're going to have a lot of students and families who would take advantage of this.  We we close some gaps and overall we get students excited about school again and coming back and all those fun activities. We we know,  you know, pragmatically, that many families  like, like all of us and all of our families around the table,  we we some folks will be traveling and things like that. We do have  some caveats with this  in expectations  for participation and attendance that I'll talk about. I added those slides today in the in the second one that actually did get emailed out, but I thought I sent the first one around for first. But this is  if you go to the next slide.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the this is what went out to everyone. And you can also enroll, I believe it's on the website right now as well. The links to the to

[R11390-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: participation and attendance that I'll talk about. I added those slides today in the in the second one that actually did get emailed out, but I thought I sent the first one around for first. But this is if you go to the next slide.
TEXT> This is the  this is what went out to everyone. And you can also enroll,  I believe it's on the website right now as well. The links to the to  register,  the pre-registration sign up and it's the there is a, a nominal cost. It's $10 a week or $25 for all six weeks when you when you sign up that you will. And that's more overhead and administrative cost  for the community center that that's handling this  with us.  But  as those anyone who's registered for the for their programs, even on the half day, it's ten or 10 or 20 times more expensive than that.  The the weeks July 5th to the ninth to 12th to the 16th,  in  19th of the 23rd, 26th to the 30th. And right up till August 13th,  you can go for all six weeks or just select the ones that you want. I'm sorry we missed a small next slide. And then the next slide. And then you'll have your preference. And again the $10 or $2025.  And if we go to the last slide, Mr. Small, these are the expectations  that we're talking about. And we want to be able to offer the best program that we can for all,  all students. So that's why we're asking that you attend  fully each day, not, you know, just for the academics or not just for the  end of the end of the day  programing.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But that's, that's, that's what we have structured so far. We have standing meetings to complete it. We're going to be sending out brochures and other things as soon as

[R11390-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Donna Magoon: Coming up.
TEXT> It's coming up. Yeah, yeah. So and we do our we do our benchmarks as we go.  It's it's it's fairly substantial. You know, we we don't we don't. To be completely honest, we haven't had time to with everything else switching to to really get into that.  We're hoping to get some of that even over the summer. For people who participate in fun and creative ways, we also will have time. To see  where students are. We haven't completely decided, and we're talking to our peer districts to see  if there are other benchmarks.   To do other than what we do. But basically it's it there's substantial deficits. I mean, there has to be we we have kids who haven't been back to school. We have there's no way you you can make up for it in time. That's why we're so excited about just getting this program together. Kind of free of cost. Also will help out.  Families, I believe, you know, in the summer  with other opportunities or maybe families who haven't been  been able to get back to work as completely as they would or both parents or things like that. So,  we're hoping this, this program really starts that rolling along with the literacy program that we're putting in a summer reading program.
NEXT> Unidentified: Which.

[R11390-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is separate from this.
TEXT> Which is separate than this. But but things that maybe we should have had before, but we're certainly championing them now, particularly when we have all of the money coming in. We're looking to have a lot of consumable,  books and other types of things to get out to folks.  Most students already have their laptops, and we're looking at software as well that people can  individualize and fill in gaps, you know, as well as best we can. And we also have,  we're looking at the most at risk and largest deficits. We've already started some tutoring programs in the schools. So just to make up on that. Yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there a plan for credit recovery for high school? Because my assumption is that there's going to be a real impact on graduation.

[R11390-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Donna Magoon: There's summer.
TEXT> There is. The summer program that I just talked about was only elementary middle school. Middle school has a similar  program. But they in that's going to be housed here, not through the,  community center. And  they they have many students there looking at the tutoring. They're looking at it make it Stem related and  some activities outside as well. High schools program is completely credit recovery.  Along with community service projects and field trips. So we they're trying to entice everyone to come in and get more students to participate, take advantage of the credit recovery, do the community projects. And then they have a,  a field trip on on Friday going out into, you know, exploratory type of type of things. So college campuses, museum trips.  The gorge in Vermont, some great things that'll get a lot more kids back, you know, taking advantage of it. And again, all  cost free. We're paying for the cost free to the  taxpayers. We're paying for all of that stuff through the cares, money, you know, staffing and everything else.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: So here's a question.

[R11390-129] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair this meeting [127-132]) | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Mister Small. Okay. Then we'll move forward on the agenda. We'll transition into the discussion action items  and fourth quarter student back to school. We've already heard a little bit about it. Or maybe a lot about it, but I know if there was additional  I know I have one I have a question here.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So so we're we are gathering the data. We anticipate probably ten, 10% more on the kind of the early findings with that we're meeting tomorrow to talk about exactly

[R11390-136] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: whole remote teacher back, we know that will impact class list particularly for remote might change. Again. The benefit would be if we as we pare down to fewer and fewer remote, we know that we'll still have some dedicated remote teachers for grade level.
TEXT> But where we have, I know how many we have left on offhand, but let's say we have 12 or 12 of those. Now, if we go down to six or to five, we should have right there, one for each grade, depending if  it's that last 100 kids. So we and I don't want to speculate what those numbers will be. We we have to look at those. And they're changing daily as parents are getting back to principals.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So it's from from my own observations, it was space was an issue even even then. It was in some of those classrooms.

[R11390-141] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: April 12th.
TEXT> April 12th. That's okay. And then my other question or comment would be then I believe you said that. So as we're coming up to that date, we're reassessing whether we can bust the high school kids or not. We're looking.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: At we're looking at what we what we would have. So approximately right now, last time we looked at the bus numbers, with the stagger in the way we had

[R11390-153] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (newly seated this meeting) | 2021-03-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Because I, I, I agree I think you know we're we're going to have sports I mean we how how can we not have these other activities. Agree Steve.
TEXT> So just one question that I have, you know just coming on again. Seeing as to how we're trying to get students back in on the fourth quarter, let's say we have a huge influx. Are we prepared to make that decision with five days before our meeting? Are we able to adapt very quickly?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So as soon, as soon as I have in, it's been vetted of of what our capacity is. Who's coming back? We'll have that all presented to you, you know,

[R11390-280] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: I don't think.
TEXT> I'm sorry. We we're finalizing  the, the plan to talk about the, the the linkage or the proposal to remove the linkage of competencies from the grading system at middle and high. So, but I don't think we'll have that ready for April because, clock's ticking now and we still have some final vetting among amongst the schools. And we're also looking a  Charlie Gessner is is looking at a way to look at how we report that out. So we wouldn't  the idea would be and for those of you who haven't been affected by it, but the idea would be that we return to a so-called traditional grading system A, either A, A, B, or C, or a letter grade.  Still have the components, as teachers have had for years now, of the competencies, so that we're teaching for  so that students know those things and they have a certain, acumen in them. And we would still do formative in some of the assessments on those things, but they wouldn't factor into the grade. It would be it would be easier to discern, and it would be much more straightforward. So that that that probably will be ready for May. I would anticipate. But we're also trying to find a way to report that out. And that's what we're seeing with with the the system. So I think that would be May  in terms of.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We may be able we may have preliminary numbers on. But I don't know that we would have that. I know we can report I know that we're doing that

[R11390-285] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: all students? Are there any schools that currently do that? Is that something we want to look as a board want to look at. So it's that kids from the district is one piece but pay to play for all students was my question. Okay.
TEXT> Yeah, I mean, I, I can try to have Doug put some together and see what he knows about that with with the  with the councils. I'm not aware of anyone in the region with the that I know of. And then the basic arguments for this and this is this is prevalent in Massachusetts schools and, my, my nephews and in fact, most of the athletics in their kind of well-to-do town were completely self-funded. So that so if you were playing baseball or sports, depending on enrollment, and then they just divide it up and you had user fees of, you know, seven, $800 per sport in addition to your own equipment. So  that's that's not that's not what. We're so but I'm making the argument and I'm not trying to conflate this or scare tactic or things like that. But when you start going down that road, you,  you're weighing, you're weighing participation in something that some kids, you know, that's why they go to school. It's a motivator. It's things like that. So, I think we, I think we should we could look at it, but. And then the other point in most of my career was a high school level high school principal is you get into the equity issue of this is the reverse equity issue that we talked about with the clubs earlier.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So clubs and is it anything that a kid does should be a fee or is it anything a kid does should remove a fee. What do you do when

[R11390-286] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: could look at it, but. And then the other point in most of my career was a high school level high school principal is you get into the equity issue of this is the reverse equity issue that we talked about with the clubs earlier.
TEXT> So clubs and is it anything that a kid does should be a fee or is it anything a kid does should remove a fee. What do you do when you're looking at these types of programs  in terms of of scholarships or other funds aside for access and all. So, I mean, there's a there's a depth and breadth to the issue. It's not just a little thing. So that's definitely a subcommittee ultimately. But it's it's good to have it in open session to gauge the community as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I mean, I don't want to go too far down the rabbit hole, but Mike and I are both on the the budget subcommittee, and that is a big

[R11390-287] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair this meeting [127-132]) | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for access and all. So, I mean, there's a there's a depth and breadth to the issue. It's not just a little thing. So that's definitely a subcommittee ultimately. But it's it's good to have it in open session to gauge the community as well.
TEXT> So I mean, I don't want to go too far down the rabbit hole, but  Mike and I are both on the the budget subcommittee, and  that is a big line item. Yeah. Athletics. It is. And as opposed to a club where you've got a an advisor, someone who's getting $800 for a stipend or something to to  be in charge of student council as opposed to, you know, $18,000 for, for new new uniforms this year. There's a big there's a big difference there, you know, and I, I think I think it is something to take a look at. Certainly. And I think Newport looked at it. I don't know if they.
NEXT> Unidentified: Did it or not, but.

[R11444-57] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: Aye aye.
TEXT> Opposed? Perfect. Student representative. Report.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: River Valley Regional Technical Center five programs will be offered this summer to middle school students. Registration will be shared next week. The options are culinary, computers and business. Explore

[R11444-72] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of where we were when we did have the very few times we had some spread and we had to quarantine and things like that. But there were just hundreds of hours that went into that planning and prepping and whatever, and it's paid off.
TEXT> So and I say that with respect to the guy, I know, the zeal to to move forward. But we've been doing this all year, and we have been doing it around the clock the last couple of weeks. Like, like as one principal said, this is our really our fourth first day on April 12th  for this year with new sets of kids, new class lists and and  forth times of charm. Because we're kind of crushing it. All  right. So next slide please.  If you look at this and I, I tried to just mark it, we thought it would be about 85% when I sent  this to you folks. I think on Friday we were at 87.  If you look in the lower right quadrant,  in the very last line, in the last circle across, you can see why Maple does have the bragging rights at 94%. Back on Monday in person, 6% out, 87, 88 at 81 and 70% at Stevens. If you look right above, you can see the percentage increase of  what they've done from everyone has has gained the overall. Excuse me. Our percentage going up, you know, seven eight  points. No matter. No matter what. Which is a lot. We also know that in also in the spirit of this, at our last admin meeting we started seeing how we could cobble.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We still had some room on busses. They went back into lists, called parents, made a few other adjustments to get those busses right around 25. Some of them a

[R11444-75] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that in the the bottom line, actually. Do you want to walk through where we are with the with that we the bottom line is we still have leftover money from one, okay. That we have that we're looking to, to we're allocating right now.
TEXT> We have money coming in for,  for allocation to as well that we can use for certain things in  the larger number. And this, this money is up to three years out. The expiration immediately before us for  the CARES one is  September. So we're we're looking at those those final submissions.  But we can do we can, do things with technology, anything that mitigates the gaps created by, by by Covid further CARES two and the CARES three. So that's what we've been also planning. That's the foundation of our,  if we go forward, two slides of the summer program where we put initial feelers out that we're trying to have kids come in.  To mitigate gains, open that up to the public, have transportation and things like that. And we'll, we'll we'll talk about that. That's that's one use of that money. The other uses of that money. And that's why it, Richard, can speak to the exact timelines better than I can, but I think why it's a good idea to have the  there were so many things we couldn't get to in the capital plan that we spoke about that if we if we had that things like in, in our strategic plan in, in the,  you know, in what's  promoted for, for cares, education and in general, basically outdoor classroom.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Being able to pivot remotely and things like that. So we could get to some of those outside projects, playgrounds, outdoor seating areas, other types of things that we already

[R11444-76] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: things we couldn't get to in the capital plan that we spoke about that if we if we had that things like in, in our strategic plan in, in the, you know, in what's promoted for, for cares, education and in general, basically outdoor classroom.
TEXT> Being able to pivot  remotely and things like that. So we could get to some of those outside projects, playgrounds,  outdoor  seating areas, other types of things that we already have done.  But we can expand on those things. So it would be good to have a group together to, to go through that. But, Richard. Richard can speak  to the money itself, you know, and basically the the timeline of it  better than I can. But we have an additional our hope is to have these things to mitigate the the gaps  we have planned as the summer. We have preschool after school  tutoring to to really focus on student.  Remediation and catching up. But we also have the ability  to put in put in other things as well. In terms of infrastructure. Some of the money, generally speaking, can be allocated towards  anything with  any HVAC types, things that do ventilation. But I kick it, kick it over to my esteemed business manager.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: You've hit the the. Additional dollars that were just allocated, which is I spend. You know. That's not it. Sorry. I'll get there. I spend so much time on these.

[R11444-77] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator (Director of Finance), SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: ability to put in put in other things as well. In terms of infrastructure. Some of the money, generally speaking, can be allocated towards anything with any HVAC types, things that do ventilation. But I kick it, kick it over to my esteemed business manager.
TEXT> You've hit the the. Additional dollars that were just allocated, which is I spend. You know. That's not it. Sorry. I'll get there. I spend so much time on these. I should know by now.  The additional money that was received recently, which is two point approximately $2.9 million.  So on top of the 760 which which  superintendent spoke about and the supplemental that were provided to us is this 2.9 million? So the the discussion around the 2.9, it's still somewhat robust and trying to be interpreted how we can use it. But basically anything that is related to Covid, whether it be related to  students who have fallen behind additional programing to help students out, indoor air quality outdoor classrooms, outdoor playground, anything that's related that you could tie anywhere into Covid is basically allowed to be  expended through this $2.9 million.  And again, it's a it's an ongoing discussion that is taking place.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I've heard other school districts are saying, can we replace a roof with this money? And the feeling is, well, if the roof has caused a indoor air quality problem.

[R11444-92] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator (Director of Finance), SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: And there's a CARES three. There's a third allocation.
TEXT> There hasn't been an allocation. But with the latest with the latest  I know what they call a bailout bill. Whatever it was really consideration that because it focused on education and making sure students were up to grade level and  trying to address any losses during the pandemic, they're throwing out a number of three times, two and a half to three times. So it could be seven, $8 million could come from that. We don't have it. It hasn't been brought forward. And understand the money comes into the state and the state then,  administers it out to the schools.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But as it is now, we don't we're not completely clear on what that money can be used.

[R11444-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we can, but we're also aggressively hiring in booking camps and doing all these things. We started this camp that is going to be preregistration all this a month ago, knowing this was coming five weeks ago, like it was more than a month ago.
TEXT> And  and now we'll be signing people out, working with the community center to do that as soon as possible. So in the, you know, to look at it in general terms, and I don't think it's going to go away. We're we're basically looking at  up to about in of what's coming. We still have we're still taking care of cares one and that that will be fine. Nothing will be on left on the table. You can you can go to the bank on that. But you're generally looking at about $10 million over the next 2 or 3 years, in addition to what we have that can only be used for those purposes. So it's an amazing way to think and open up some of the opportunities we have for students that that people have always wanted to do. But but we can do and we can. We'll do it prudently. That's why I think sooner than later, getting that committee  together, what we did with that committee when we didn't have anything was amazing. So now just kind of we have the same list ready to go and prioritize. And it's how it should be done. And it's it's  we're also not going to, you know, it's not going to be kind of spendthrift time either.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We it's going to align to goals. It's going to do things. And we want to go slow and steady. But we also it's that's an awful lot of money.

[R11444-130] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: I, I, I, I know you guys are working hard. I'm not at all.
TEXT> So, so but we also ask for proposals.  Address kind of everyone like everyone on the admin team  and other forums and things like that. That. So let's say a teacher said maybe we could have  a  maybe something that could go into the summer. So that's why we said we wanted to target this reward kids.  Focus on the gains with the CARES money. But if there was if there was anything that was missed, live performances, everything that opens up over the summer in a theater. Teacher, a music teacher said, hey, I think I have a bunch of kids who are around and they'd love to perform, and we do a little concert in the park or things like that. We could we could do that to mitigate those losses of performance. Time for the I mean, we could we can do all those things. The one thing that we have been knocked on would be very lucky with so far in planning and and really focusing on,  the elementary in the early literacy for the summer remediation is we have had a lot of staff commit to coming in and teaching better than we thought, because we have also heard anecdotally, and we're trying to mix it up somewhat part time, somewhat the whole summer, because many folks, including our teachers and the people who do those, they also want to take a break with their families and go off.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's been we've had a great response to that, but I, I will put that out again. If there are other types of clubs or activities, we certainly have

[R11444-131] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: because we have also heard anecdotally, and we're trying to mix it up somewhat part time, somewhat the whole summer, because many folks, including our teachers and the people who do those, they also want to take a break with their families and go off.
TEXT> So it's been we've had a great response to that, but I, I will put that out again. If there are other types of clubs or activities, we certainly have enough funds to do that. And kids certainly did miss out in the regular year for the you can't even pull off that hybrid in a big space. I know what you're saying. So,  as soon as that opens up and also for. Us for seed money, I was a activities director and stuff like that in back in the day. And,  if you wanted to start up your club early and promote it to freshmen coming up and other types of things that that I like that idea. So we will push that out.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Mark, is there a specific ones that you're thinking about. So we can kind of because I know CMS band also meets during Saw.

[R11444-137] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: If I do with you on that. If you have any. Other follow up. Yeah, okay.
TEXT> I know when we had our,  groups before school started that we we were hearing a lot from high school kids that were in band and,  in chorus that were feeling very,  left out.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I remember.

[R11444-143] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: And yeah.
TEXT> So so. We. We two things. One one we we know those students and we we are. We're I. We're we're we're on we're on them as well. And we're on. And we've also  worked closely with what has worked with the community center for.  And we can we can talk about that too, about we're using them like we can mitigate all fees at all, even the registration, all those types of obstacles. And we're willing to do that.  But it's important to know as well, when the spirit of the cares money that this is for every one of every strata of every academic, any single person who wants to do this can do it. Picked up at the door,  you know, eight to,  for 430 or 5. No, 830 to. Five. With a drop. I'm sorry. I should have it. It's coming out of my pores. But but all all of that,  anyone can do that. We do know that the students that we haven't seen the the  some we have some students  where we haven't had much contact, even going out to the house of sending social workers to the houses and things like that, and all the suffering  and drop offs that have happened because of the remote type of situation and families, you know,  you know, balancing,  work and coverage and all those things. We're reaching out to them all, all over the place to to have them come in as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I was I'm going to take you back on your thought, Heather, just for a second. So one of the things that just popped into my head was, when

[R11444-144] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and drop offs that have happened because of the remote type of situation and families, you know, you know, balancing, work and coverage and all those things. We're reaching out to them all, all over the place to to have them come in as well.
TEXT> So I was I'm going to take you back on your thought, Heather, just for a second. So one of the things that just popped into my head was,  when you want to have people participate in something that's good for them, and I'm speaking in the context of of insurance, say, and you want people to engage in healthy activities, you give them incentives. And so I'm wondering if there's any kind of partnership possible with Hannaford or Walmart where if if kids come and they complete, they could get a a $50 gift card to Hannaford. Or Walmart. For six weeks. If they come, they would get some sort of a, an incentive for, for completion.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we we we do have incentives. We haven't thought around that, you know, we have t shirts, we have giveaways, we have manipulatives, we have, you know, books. Other

[R11444-147] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: For things that the parents can use up that way the parents are motivated to get.
TEXT> Them there. We had about 98 children that pre-registered for this. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R11444-154] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: So yes.
TEXT> On the camp talk. Am I correct in hearing that there's some there may be some volunteer opportunity for high school students to earn their,  volunteer credit or their volunteer hours.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. Thank you for thank you for that. Blog that. We're putting that out. And they they do have a graduation requirement for community service. And we're also looking at

[R11444-155] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: On the camp talk. Am I correct in hearing that there's some there may be some volunteer opportunity for high school students to earn their, volunteer credit or their volunteer hours.
TEXT> Absolutely. Thank you for thank you for that. Blog that. We're putting that out. And they they do have a graduation requirement for community service. And  we're also looking at that as well to try to  potentially we don't think the hours we anticipate, depending on how many cohorts we have in the help that we need, is that we want those students to sign up, and we're hoping that they also at the end of what they need for that,  for the grad requirement, which is off their plate for senior year, which is no small thing,  as you know, Mr. Sprague, that's off the plate. And we may be able to employ them  for hourly on top of that, to make sure we have the staff that we need. And that's that's one of the first populations where we're targeting, along with the certified teachers, the specialists, the counselors,  the nurse, all that other stuff. That's that's.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I was fond of a willing partner to help fund things with the Claremont Savings Bank. Yeah, they have a, a foundation, which I think the applications are probably being

[R11444-230] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: First meeting. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> The great. The grading is, is,  we have a proposal based on that. That was a that that kept going after Covid, so that that was good.  We can talk about the I think we should on the pay pay to play sports. So we still have that lingering. We have  some,  any existing student that could play that we had before. We have kind of grandfathered in. We didn't want to do that. Well, we came down. It was. Thought I was on a roll there. Mike. So, so sorry about that. So we,  we we should come up with something and really get into,  if we want to,  you know, we can go into the funding of sports and athletics in general. We can talk about some of that at the,  at the retreat. But, in terms of pay to play sports,  in the like, I think we, we know that we have had the issue for middle school teams and other things creep up where we've let people come in. I think we just iron that out, how how we're going to do it so that we start next year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Clean, whether it's a nominal fee or whatever. We don't want to detract to the degree to which we promote people to come to, to Claremont and to eventually play

[R11444-233] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are we talking achievement levels? H is that what your.
TEXT> I  was on  e e so so,  exactly what's, what are we remediating for, for,  and how we're doing that. I don't know that we can. I can show you the numbers for the next meeting. I think we can. I think we'll have them. I still don't,  one thing about if we go to a traditional grading system, many of the. Once we separate the competencies that I think you'll like in the presentation, many of these things that are somewhat mysterious, including kids, eligibility for sports,  competing against other kids for  sports in different schools and things like that. It'll,  a lot of these things in some way are tangentially related to that.  The, school safety, we won't have safeguards. I think we've got I think we've got we got at least at least three there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R11444-236] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So so, Donna, did you get all.
TEXT> Those grading system proposal play. Pay. To play sports in high school? Students failing. Due to remote learning and the system?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yep. Yeah. Okay. Good. Got them. All right.

[R11444-247] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: But.
TEXT> I'm not, not in the meeting agenda. But so in just for folks at home, that doesn't mean that we're looking to move schools around and everything like that. What we're talking about with that and where we kind of left off with this. We talked at the elementary level. This was in the quote before time,  right before before Covid, but we're looking at ways in which we could  have more interventions, have better capacity, and have a better  bang for the buck in terms of class size, in relation to population shifts, student bubbles and things like that that were wildly swaying class size numbers. So when you might have a class size of seven and maybe you've had a class size of of 21, that's what we're talking about before. What has to happen in terms of doing that and why? It's a it's a heavy lift and I don't want to alarm people at home. Is there are a.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There are different goals in terms of doing that. So if we were looking for interventions in trying to have like size grade configurations, and that's one thing, no matter

[R11510-22] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain outside segments 36-50 - cl | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Vaccinate, folks. But Don has been working really diligently, reaching out, and, I'll let her take it away. So I want to steal our thunder. It's pretty good.
TEXT> Pretty good. Next Friday, we will be hosting a clinic, a,  a Covid vaccination clinic for students 12 and older. Now they the the approval process is still pending for the 12 year olds, but they're hopeful that it'll be next week. They'll have the approval. So we're going we're moving forward with that. And so I just sent it out. And I already have over 50 students already signed up to  come in for the clinic. And it's going to be during the school day.  Permission slips for obviously students under the age of 18 will be sent out to parents next week. They the student would bring them with them. Parents are allowed to accompany their child if they want to. They don't have to. We will have  we either going to walk depending upon the weather, walk or bus. Any middle school students over to the high school for the vaccination, and then the high school kids will just come down and get their vaccination. And then the second one will be three weeks after that. So we're pretty excited about about being able to host something so big and the way it's looking. We may be one of the first places to host the students under the age of 16, so we're pretty excited about that as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I want to put a pause there so staff and ordinance can ask questions of the assistant superintendent about this. Go ahead.

[R11510-24] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I want to put a pause there so staff and ordinance can ask questions of the assistant superintendent about this. Go ahead.
TEXT> I'm thrilled. And actually, I wanted to  mention sometime in this meeting how we were going to be moving forward. Vaccinations are going to be opening up to a younger population. And just to reiterate to the public, the students that are considering the vaccine and the families,  that the incidence of any severe reaction is, is really minuscule. And  I actually did a quick little review before coming in. So I wasn't just making stuff up. And and it's .0004 7%, you're more likely to be struck by lightning than to have a severe adverse reaction from either one of these vaccines. And,  any side effects that you, you know, common side effects such as headache, body ache, chills, they're expected. And it's not that you're sick, that you're having an immunological response. And the way I thought of it when I got the vaccine and I had those symptoms is when I was pregnant and I was nauseous, I knew it was because I was pregnant. And so I was able to kind of continue on psychologically encapsulating that. So just to reiterate, thrilled that we're doing this and to, encourage all the parents and students to consider this choice for themselves.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: If you did take.

[R11510-36] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: do that, but we want to look at some other, other measures to do things like that. And again, the difference between the individual student achievement, students own personal growth in gains and competency skills and other outcomes, as well as looking at group achievement.
TEXT> So the graduating class, how many kids went on  looking at an exit data, other types of things that the guidance departments doing a they have just some some very creative ideas in classes where they're intervening and really, really getting after that now. And we're looking forward to that next year as well.  And then district school grade level subject competency and standard alignment just to walk it through. You want to stay consistent with the those things. It's not that we don't already do them, but we have a substantial amount of turnover. And we should be revisiting those things on a regular basis. Next slide please, Mr. Small. Increasing and individualizing  the student time on learning. So managing the time schedules contact hours and expectations  in each in each building and in each cohort of students  looking at things like year long classes versus half year classes that we began talking about,  upon entry, meaning, you know,  particularly for things  at the, at the high school level, also at the middle school level,  the continuity  of  expectation from  school year to  from school to school, but also the amount of contact time in the difference between there's some inherent,  gaps in structure between courses, a sequential building block, courses that are can be, in some cases need to be remedied, particularly in math courses  and
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: other things that we're looking to to show some gains in, blended learning and individualized instruction. And again, that's we have had the opportunity kind of forced into it due

[R11510-37] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to from school to school, but also the amount of contact time in the difference between there's some inherent, gaps in structure between courses, a sequential building block, courses that are can be, in some cases need to be remedied, particularly in math courses and
TEXT> other things that we're looking to to  show some gains in, blended learning and individualized instruction. And again, that's we have had the opportunity  kind of forced into it  due to  Covid, but we really rapidly expanded our online presence 1 to 1 that we had already planned. But we now we're really focusing next year on the professional development, the learning groups, the time to time,  you know, the direct time in the PD. And we'll I'd love to come back  in June and really showcase the amazing professional development work  that that Donna and Tammy Morse have put together. It's really  it's just very well done.  And we  we still need feedback from the admin team and looking forward to rolling that  out to,  out to  everyone. It's exciting what they're doing.  The quality and differentiation of learning environments. And I put six up there just for examples of face to face instruction blended  in experiential  learning and mentoring, internships as well.  Similar to the experience, a little bit different, but,  collegiate experiences with the community college looking how we can do that in kind of the traditional ellos that we have. We have many opportunities for this, but we want to dig in to see which sets of those experience match each kid.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So you don't necessarily have to be tech center kid to have an internship in the community. And we want to reach out and kind of match those things up.

[R11510-42] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and expand. And this is, Principal Barry and her team will talk about this after. It's it's it was we looked at we looked at a venue with her and just just getting getting back to as close as we can, just thinking about completely.
TEXT> We can't commit to  exactly what we're going to look like,  you know, in the,  in the fall. But we're,  we're confident with,  you know, vaccinations and with protocols that, that it's, we're going to resume to normalcy.  In district special ed programing, we talked about those. We've already brought students back this year, already halfway through the year from some of our programs  where they were going  as far away as is  southern Vermont. And,  we're focusing on the middle school.  Scope and sequence of programing to parallel the  high school scope and sequence as well, for  students  being special ed students, being  integrated in existing classrooms and just controlling costs that way. The governance structure that, that we talked about  previously and that I'm alluding to now, is we already have school councils where there's school leadership teams.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What we're looking to do in schools. Principals will be reaching out. At the in the fall. And we'll we'll have more of a shape to this, but we're looking

[R11510-54] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: I need to adopt the Claremont Public School strategic plan 21 through 26.
TEXT> For this session. And again, I'll reiterate one of our one of our goals is to is to support the, the administration in the achievement of their goals. That's one of our goals. So that being said, all those in favor I opposed. Okay. High school students failures and credit recovery update.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Yeah.

[R11510-61] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: goes, we anticipate better communication, things like. And that'll be one of the charts that we show. Things like athletic eligibility, are going to be much easier to pinpoint and attack and understand, and remediate with the with this kind of a reporting out system.
TEXT> And I'm sure Prescott will have something to say. I'm sure he has an opinion as a student, but we have heard this from students and parents across the board, and  we're hoping that this new system will just facilitate that kind of communication and, and make parents feel more comfortable in these conversations with their teachers.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm ready.

[R11510-66] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Hey there.
TEXT> We're going to show you a little bit of what Patrick spoke about in regards to the history. And then we'll show you what our teacher will look like,  moving forward. And we'll even if we can get the phone up, we'll try to even show you the app and how that would impact parents that use the app as well. So. Right now the grade book is broken into three components. We generate an overall grade at the end of the course obviously, and throughout the course. And as Pat mentioned, we really don't grade the assignment right now. The assignment is just a check mark. The student did it or it's missing or it's late or it's incomplete. And we grade the competencies in the learning targets. So what that basically looks like if you're a staff member is I might give Prescott an assignment. And that assignment might be on competency one. And there might be three learning targets. And he might get a D on one of the learning targets a P and a P plus. Yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Learning target means test right? No.

[R11510-72] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: It can be it's going to be an exam. But so it's a multi it's a it fits a definition has multi things underneath it.
TEXT> Yes. Well that's. Where we're going to Heather is that that we will be they'll be seeing the assignment and the points attached to that assignment. Okay.  But right now it's a learning target that says  understands quadratic equations. And so that's what you see. And that's what you see  graded. And often depending on the course or the discipline a student can be proficient in everything, miss a learning target and not pass the course. So that's another piece that has been a frustration  that this we think will fix. Is that answer your question.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'm sure I should have just listened for a while. Okay, I'll do that. Okay.

[R11510-74] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'm sure I should have just listened for a while. Okay, I'll do that. Okay.
TEXT> So using one assignment as an example, like if I were to give a test right now, the assignment itself really isn't graded from a power school standpoint. We just give it a check mark, the student did it or it's missing or it's late. And then whatever the learning targets were that we were trying to grade in that assignment. And in this case, I gave you an example of three. I might have a situation where a student gets a D, a P, and a p plus. Those are average together to generate an overall grade for that assignment. Okay. So I want you to think of it in terms of one assignment. But there could be multiple grades. And I think that's where it gets a lot very confusing I should say for for parents as well as students. So what we're looking at doing is kind of going back to where we were pre standards, but still keeping them in in that. Now instead of giving the student a check mark on the assignment, the student would get a numerical grade. So let's pretend you take a test. You get ten out of a ten. That's 100. You get eight out of ten, that's an 80, right?
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: In this case, I just randomly threw in an 85. And as most of us knew when we were growing up and we went to school and even about 12,

[R11510-75] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: Now instead of giving the student a check mark on the assignment, the student would get a numerical grade. So let's pretend you take a test. You get ten out of a ten. That's 100. You get eight out of ten, that's an 80, right?
TEXT> In this case, I just randomly threw in an 85. And as most of us knew when we were growing up and we went to school and even about 12, 13 years ago in the district and 85 was a B. And that's what we're kind of proposing, that we go back to. However, the pieces that I,  as an educator, want to  make sure that students know those learning targets that I showed you earlier that were graded, they would still be reported out on, but that portion of the grade isn't going to be capped anymore. The only thing that's going to be count is that 85. So instead of having one assignment, maybe three, 4 or 5 grays to it, think of it as a 1 to 1 relationship, one assignment, one great. Okay. Now. Our current grading scale that we're using a Stevens High School, if you're unfamiliar with it, the highest grade that you can get is a w d. And for normal classes at Stevens High School, that would represent a 4.0 as a GPA. If you're in a running start class, if you're in an AP class that's bumped up to a five, okay, the second grade down is also a passing grade.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: That's a P plus. If you earn that as a final grade currently, you would get a 3.5 as a GPA and a P, which is you're just getting through

[R11510-76] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: And for normal classes at Stevens High School, that would represent a 4.0 as a GPA. If you're in a running start class, if you're in an AP class that's bumped up to a five, okay, the second grade down is also a passing grade.
TEXT> That's a P plus. If you earn that as a final grade currently, you would get a 3.5 as a GPA and a P, which is you're just getting through your profession. You're getting a 3.0. All three other grades, as you can see, are failing grades. There's p p for partially proficient. There's SBP for substantially below proficient. And IWS insufficient work submitted, which for the most part are students that come to school and they never turn anything in. Okay, that's the current grading scale for final grades. What we're looking at doing is going back again to what you had around 12, 13 years ago. With a slight little change. The highest grade you would be able to earn would go back to an A plus, still be a 4.0, and A would be worth a 3.75 and a minus A three point 5AB plus 3.25 a, b is A, three, a, b -2.75 C plus 2.5, C 2.25 C minus two. Notice no D's. No D no D plus no D minus C. Is it numerically behind the scenes we're looking at a 70 as a cutoff, not 6570. We would have another grade in here. We're still debating what it's going to be called for now it's called CR for credit recovery notice. That's a failing grade. It's worth the zero.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: If a student earns that grade, they would be eligible for competency recovery and some type of credit recovery so that they would not have to take the entire class

[R11510-77] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: the scenes we're looking at a 70 as a cutoff, not 6570. We would have another grade in here. We're still debating what it's going to be called for now it's called CR for credit recovery notice. That's a failing grade. It's worth the zero.
TEXT> If a student earns that grade, they would be eligible for competency recovery and some type of credit recovery so that they would not have to take the entire class again. So now it would really, really stand out. You didn't make it, but we think you still got a shot. Let's let's work with you. However, notice we left the F in, so if you fail, you're probably looking at a course. Repeat. And then we still left in the S to highlight for you as a parent, whether it be on an assignment or as a final grade, the student that doesn't do anything. So hopefully there's clarity there. Okay. Now.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And the c r would most likely represent a 60 to a 69. So a student who got that numerical average is close enough. Where summer credit recovery time would

[R11510-79] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: be able to make that up. Below that, we figure those six weeks in the summer is probably not enough for them to recover the entire class. So that's what right now we're looking at, is that would be approximately a 60 to a 69.
TEXT> So let's review the key points before I take you into the grade book. And we'll show you kind of how this plays. On the teacher side, we're allowing the teachers now to grade the assignments. It's no more. Just check you did it missing late. You're actually giving that student a numerical value from 0 to 100. That number grade is then converted into a letter grade. So again a 100 might be an A+ and 95 would be an A and so forth. Assignments would be housed via categories. So think about it this way I teach honors economics at the high school. I have two competencies that I grade right now okay, 50%, 50% on the grade book portion of power school, which I'll take you into a second. We're now going to create categories, and the categories would be separating the grade and that 50%. So if I'm grading a student on competency one and he gets an 85 or she gets an 85 on that assignment, okay, we're taking 50% of that. And then on the competency two assignments, we're taking 50% of that to come up to the overall course grade.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: Again, teachers are still reporting out on the competencies which we believe is important, but they're really not a portion of the student's grade, just the number. So the reason

[R11510-81] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: now, when they go into power school, they're seeing a whole bunch of check marks that the student either did something or didn't do something, and they had to start clicking all over the place to open up the standards to see assignment by assignment.
TEXT> It's the same complaint that we've had on the parent portal, right? A lot of parents complain about the parent portal, and it's like, I can't see anything. The standards are there, but I don't think a lot of people know how to come up to a final grade as a score. And a lot of that goes away going back to  just giving the student a numerical grade on an assignment. And hopefully if I can attach my phone to this, you'll see how that will pan out. So let me show you how this impacts the teacher very quickly.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And while this. Was something I also want to interject while we're going back to numbers and letters, what we don't go back to is a world in which there

[R11510-83] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: Mechanics, usage and grammar. And so when I hand out an essay and I grade that essay, that essay might be worth 100 points. If it's something that I am going to ask for two drafts on, maybe I give it a 300 point weight.
TEXT> But that assignment may live in three different competencies in the reading, in the writing, and in the the mugs competency. If my student shows that they've got an 85 in the reading and they've got an 85 in my mechanics and they've got an 85 in presentation, but they've got a 20 in writing, that's going to be abundantly evident to the parent, to me as a teacher, so I can offer remediation in. So I can now really differentiate from my student inflects for their homework in their next test, in their next assignment. Johnny needs to work on his writing because he's at a 20 and I need to get him up to that 70. He needs to get up to that 70 of proficiency if he's going to be successful at the next level. And so it's going to be just a much clearer forensic analysis of where students are  using numbers.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So the grade book, just so you can get a perspective of what the teachers will be doing when they come back as a fall, they would go into the

[R11510-88] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So it allows that when he talks about weighting, it's it's how much that particular exam or quiz or whatever, how much bearing that actually has on a final grade that's adjustable.
TEXT> Right. And that goes so that's where those points come in. Right. So if that research project that's taking six weeks, it's probably a thousand points. That pop quiz about last night's reading ten points. And that's how you make sure that you are to your point,  putting the weight where it belongs for that student's grades.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So I'm going to stop you because I think I might I, I, I think I got I do I think I have you but if I don't then you

[R11510-97] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: do in this class to get that grade up to a 70 in all my competencies? So it right now we just don't have that ability. Looking at the grades, the way they're currently input and to have that ability to to focus that way.
TEXT> One of the big challenges and Richard called us to he was I was at the podium and Richard was sitting here,  that  and Charlie remembers is that computers do numbers. They don't do letters. And that was one of our big, big challenges in coming up with recognizable letters that were similar to what the kneecap, how the kneecap was scored. The P plus was put in simply so we would have a reasonable GPA spread. That's why we had b p plus.  But the biggest complaint about the grading system is not necessarily what we call the grades in Myra collection. It's parents really being frustrated. And how is my kid doing? I mean, to me that was the biggest the biggest problem with with all of this. And I think that that was due to the fact that  letters don't generate numbers. And so you would come up with these very vague descriptors of how and very dramatic descriptors where you're either passing or failing. And a lot of frustrated parents that were how come my kids failing all of a sudden last week? They were they were they were proficient with distinction.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: This week they're failing. How can that be? And so I think what what the administration is asking for the means to sort of make that lens more granular so

[R11510-99] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: teachers and administrators and parents, some strategies to remediate. Whereas if you look at and again, not user friendly and due to do, I think in large part to the and I know this to the numbers instead of letters. And letters instead of numbers.
TEXT> You're absolutely right, Frank. And another key piece that I just don't want to get overlooked.  Institutionally, somewhere along the way, when we were trying to be so pure  competency, what we did was there's formative and there's summative, right? And, you know, you can ask ten different educators to describe what competency based education means, and you'll get ten different definitions, what that's supposed to look like. But we have we have come to a point and we've been there for a long time where when students hear the F word, they know it doesn't get graded. And uman nature is. If you're not going to grade me on this, I'm not going to care so much. Right.  But the pure ivory tower philosophy of competency is that if students do really well in all these formative, it's going to prepare them and they're going to do better on that summative. But what happened was that students intrinsically, because they're their kids, and even as adults, we know if there's nothing in it for me, I tend not to do it or care much about it. They don't do the formative and then they just do the summative. And that's the only thing that was getting graded. And our definition in our school of a formative has become very broad, and it almost has been everything that isn't a summit of assessment.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: What we know is that when when I do a quiz, when I hand out a worksheet, or if I ask kids to do an exit ticket, those are all

[R11510-101] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: we assess students. And looking at grading all of those things that prior were deemed formative and shouldn't be graded, including homework. So when I say tonight's reading is two chapters of To Kill a mockingbird, there's going to be a quiz tomorrow on it.
TEXT> Kids are going to care. They're going to know that they're going to get a grade on that pop quiz tomorrow, and there's going to be an incentive. So that's that's just kind of a  institutional shift that we're making together with this process.
NEXT> Unidentified: One of the things when I was at the high school having conversations with parents. Right. So you're.

[R11510-103] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain outside segments 36-50 - cl | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: One of the things when I was at the high school having conversations with parents. Right. So you're.
TEXT> Sitting there with a parent and they're looking at their child's grades, black and white, and they see all these things with no grades. And then just a couple of grades, they say, well, what about all this stuff? And the kid says, well, I don't have to do that stuff because I'm not graded on it. And look, I'm passing and having to try to explain that to a parent because a parent is saying, that's fluff. If you're not going to grade it, why are you giving it? You know, give my kids stuff that matters, right?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We've seen to where parents of my kids working every night at the dining room table, they did this, they did this. I saw them hand this in. Well, that

[R11510-105] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: our kids are showing us that they know what we've taught them aren't counting. And then we're putting it all into these kind of big chunks. So it both ends were were difficult conversations that we've had to have with parents with the current system.
TEXT> So getting back to the assignment that the staff member puts in, again, let's pretend it's a chapter four test and let's pretend it's for competency. One, I might say that's going to be worth 100 points. Whereas you saw earlier the homework was only worth ten. Now in the past I might be grading, as I showed you at the outset, three to 4 or 5 things. Now we still might. We're going to be giving one grade, but we might be reporting out still on those 4 or 5 things if they were part of that test. So the standards that have always been in power school are still going to exist. Staff can select those so that they can report out on those. And then what happens is that when you give the test and you grade that student, in this case, I know it's difficult to see, I apologize, but the student received a 75 on the test. And then the two learning targets, which in this case were the objective part of the test and the math portion of the test. They got a P and a D. So as a teacher I can have a conversation. Said your child got a 75. They're fine on the math. They know all the math concepts, but on the objective section we've got to beef them up. But at the end of the day, it's a 75. Okay. So that's that's basically how.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: That looks. Now the report card. The current report card that we have looks something like this. It will change slightly in that you would have the new grading scale.

[R11510-106] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: conversation. Said your child got a 75. They're fine on the math. They know all the math concepts, but on the objective section we've got to beef them up. But at the end of the day, it's a 75. Okay. So that's that's basically how.
TEXT> That looks.  Now the report card. The current report card that we have looks something like this. It will change slightly in that you would have the new grading scale. So you would know that the A plus and the A and the A minus all that. They're all back in business. The standards grades the D the P plus those are what we're still reporting out on. But again this is just for reporting purposes. The other thing that the high school administration wanted was the ability to report out on what they call their 21 sees or habits of learning. Those would still be reported out in this section. So you could see I have grades of like four and three and two and one down in this for things like collaboration, perseverance, reliability and so forth. You would get the grading scales up here. Then you would see the final grade for the course or the quarter that we're in. Okay. Any comments that the teacher makes would also be posted. And then again the reporting purposes for the  season learning targets are below. Now, a lot of parents don't like seeing all of us. There are  parents that basically want to know, did my kid pass or fail?
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So what we're also looking at putting together for you is a short version. And the short version is really, really cut and dry. The grading scales go away. All

[R11510-108] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: the competency and the learning target grades will always exist on the parent portal. So if you're the type of parent that's just using the app, and you're just checking that you're going to be able to see that information there all the time anyway.
TEXT> And the typical student would have four of those because they'd be taking four classes. That's just Charlie's.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: It's just it's just a one class demo.

[R11510-111] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So on a roll, let's talk about where we're at, where we're going right now. If you want to make high on a roll of Stevens High School, you have to have all DS proficient with distinction. Next year. If you wanted to make high honor roll, you'd have to have all A's a plus, a a minus. End of story for high honor roll. You want to make regular honor roll. Currently it's and P pluses. Next year it would be a plus a A minus B plus and B. That's it. Five grades for regular honorable class rank and S.H. s. It's going to expand. So what I want you to think about is what I showed you earlier, the current scale that we're using. If a child is passing all their classes barely, their GPA would probably be a 3.0, and the highest GPA you could have is a 4.0. Unless you're taking those honors classes, AP classes running start where you might have a five. Okay, very, very tight. But the minute we now open it up to nine potential passing grades, that 3 to 4, which is only a one point differential.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: Now it spans and it goes from 2 to 4. So now for the student that might have all 100 and ends up with an A plus is a 4.0

[R11510-117] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: your point that again, that would be an incentive for students to do stuff. I mean, we've talked about homework counting and, you know, counting it for ten, 15, 20 points. But I think at the end of the day, there's a lot of students.
TEXT> And  Prescott can he can back me up on this or he can I I appreciate his point of view. There are some students that will work to just get to a certain point. They're happy with a P, or they're happy with the P, plus they're happy with the D I it does. It will not shock me if we have the same situation where students will say, I'm okay with an A minus, I'm okay with it. I mean, we're going to have students that do that no matter how hard we try to make things count and to make that 65, 75 minutes that we have with kids each day valuable, there are always going to be students that are going to want to think that they can game the system. It's going to happen. It's going to happen. We have to we have to acknowledge that. I, you know, I think.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just jump in one second. I'll get to. Your superintendent and everyone you're looking for us to make a decision on this tonight. True.

[R11510-122] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: Good job.
TEXT> Of of communicating the change. From the A through F that took place to the P and D that took place. And having had both my kids had that I saw in their transcripts how difficult it was to understand. So the real challenge that we have along with this is the communication of what does it mean. So if we're going to go back to the other one. Okay, what does it mean? And have a clear explanation to wherever they're going, whether it's going into employment or college or something else? Yeah. Because it was it was contentious. And we had we we took a lot of public input. And Charlie remembers we had a lot of but again, I'm going to look to the rest of the board. We are going from something unfamiliar. Well, something that's familiar now to something that I see some clear advantages. I see some as Heather, a couple of disadvantages. But,  I guess I'm going to get a sense of the board. Is this something we want to get some public input on, or do we want to make a decision tonight to allow them to go forward?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: In the seven years that I've been principal, I have never once had a parent or a student say, this is an awesome grading system.

