[R8845-326] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (O'Neill: 'Chris, you said you sent  | 2017-01-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: preventing a another CTE program from coming in. So we couldn't say no. Doug Morton, you can't teach your plumbing class in here right now because we want to teach a baking class in here. But if there's empty rooms, you can use empty rooms.
TEXT> Yeah. The problem I have with that is once you start doing that, in theory, if we get the tech center rolling again and we want new programs, we've. Yeah, but we've now you may not be able to go back. We're  we're not looking long. We're we're a short term solution to a long term problem. It's part of what I want to do is really dissect the tech center in this budget to I really want to get to just to, just to know for certain what the tech center is costing us. What the I that's basically what I sent Mike was a laundry list for questions, just to try to come up with what this tech center represents for us is a dollar and cents students and then then have that conversation, okay, what can we do to to make that dollar be better than it is? Because my hunch is, I think it's going to be pretty pricey for what we're paying on a per student charge here. And that goes to your point is, how do we how do we utilize things as I don't want to see us utilize this as just a nice old building, I want to utilize it  as the tech center, bringing it back to life. And that will by default, lower that cost and give us more bang for our buck and to generate revenue.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Right now with four programs, it's not doing that. And that's it's not part of my my dissection of this is I want to really take a hard look at

[R8845-428] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (O'Neill: 'Chris, you said you sent  | 2017-01-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: We still have a quorum, so. Okay. What are they?
TEXT> Public solicitations in schools, advertising in the schools, employee gifts. And so stations, flier distribution policy, access to public school programs by nonpublic charter school and home education pupils and procedural safeguards for children with disabilities. I don't believe we had asked for any more information on any of these. I think we just postponed do the lateness of the hour at the last meeting.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Yeah we did.

[R8873-5] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: take the approach of status quo. It's been here forever or it's been here for a couple of years. We're going to continue going on. We do a forensic. We look at all the programs and we ask or any outdated or no longer appropriate.
TEXT> No different than really your own personal lives and how we conduct our lives. And when we have challenges, we identify the priorities, evaluate the programs, rethink the budget. We're not interested in change, but we are interested in finding efficiencies and if need be, making a changes, especially when we have a challenge like over an $850,000 increase in the budget, we could just say we've done our job. It's up to the taxpayer. But I think in this day and age it's it's unrealistic. That's my opinion to say to the taxpayer, $850. I can tell you this, though, if the $850 state as part of the budget, there would be a default budget lower then the budget being proposed with $850,000 increase. If the community chose the default budget. The collective bargaining agreements that we're very proud of, that are part of the budget would be for not. I want to talk to you about some of the challenges that we're facing.  And I call it New Hampshire's dilemma. The public school enrollment in Claremont  is decreasing. In the past ten years. It's decreased by over 300 students. But it's not just a Claremont issue. If you look at the state of New Hampshire over the past several years, the enrollment has been continuously decreasing. The dilemma is that the enrollment is decreasing, but the cost of education is increasing.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And why is enrollment decreasing? Because in the state of New Hampshire, the birth rate is decreasing. In fact, demographically, the middle age and older population is expanding, is expanding

[R8873-7] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: state tax. It predominantly, predominantly on the real estate tax. The good news is the state has stepped up. The bad news is the state is stepping back. This is gives you a view of nationally of how important state revenue is to public schools.
TEXT> But the demand on local funding in New Hampshire will be increasing. That becomes very problematic if there isn't a tax or revenue source. Let me give you an example of the challenge we face with state revenue. This current school year, the budget increased $75,000. It would have been $15,000, but the school board added $60,000 to the budget to provide very much needed professional development. We talked about that this past fall. The advantage of supporting staff with professional development and the outcome of that. This caused a tax rate to go up $0.11. However, there was a reduction in adequacy aid, and that was over $430,000 to Claremont as a result. That reduction costs the tax rate to go up $0.63. So the school board did their part in minimizing the impacts on the tax rate, but the lack of state aid expanded that let them go back a year earlier. Fiscal year 16 was over $14,000 less than fiscal year 15. Real estate taxes still increased. So there are other variables other than the school budget that impact the tax rate. And a good part of that is revenue. So one thing that we looked at also our class sizes, as the aroma is going down as it's decreasing,  what are the class sizes look like? Ideally, my experiences have been that the smallest class sizes number of students with the teacher. The small classes should be in the elementary where children need the most attention.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So you're going to be looking at some different scenarios. I'm going to talk to you about bluff, Dessner, and Maple. What this represents here are the number of classes,

[R8873-8] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the aroma is going down as it's decreasing, what are the class sizes look like? Ideally, my experiences have been that the smallest class sizes number of students with the teacher. The small classes should be in the elementary where children need the most attention.
TEXT> So you're going to be looking at some different scenarios. I'm going to talk to you about bluff, Dessner, and Maple.  What this represents here are the number of classes, for example, 1010 students, 10 to 15 students, 16 to 20 students, or classes that are greater than 20 students. So in in one of our elementary schools is kindergarten. We have nine students. So here is one class that has less than ten students. There are 18 classes that have between 10 and 15 students, 15 classes that have been 16 and 20, and about ten classes and their elementary that are larger than 20 students. That's our elementary at the middle school. There are no classes less than 15 or 10. And as you can see, we have about 29 classes, 16 to 20 and 35 classes larger than 20 students per class. The high school is a different picture in the high school. And by the way, these are English, math, science, social studies in foreign language classes. I have not included any related arts, no special education because there are times when a special education class can be quite small.  We have proximately 18 classes that are less than ten students at Stevens High School, about 4243 that are 10 to 15 students, about a little over 50. 16 to 20 students. And we have approximately 3132 students. Excuse me, 32 classes that have more than 20 students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I think it's wonderful if a school district can support that pupil teacher ratio. But in times of economic challenges, we have to look at that. And that's one of

[R8873-62] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Cory LeClair: You know.
TEXT> With the p e position. We currently have two. One of the positions is not fully devoted to PE at this time. Some of the things taught are in the health department. And so it's the two full time PE positions aren't really full PE positions as they currently stand. One of the things that we've been looking at, as of last year, I reached out on the principals listserv to see how our other districts dealing with their PE credits, the 1.0 credit that the state requires for graduation. And it was interesting to see how others are looking at the the retrieval of that credit. We had an alliance with Jenkins Dance Institute downtown several years ago, and students who were involved in that dance academy  got PE credit, and that was an example of how some districts are looking outside the regular school day, what students are already doing in their lives that meet the competencies for physical education. A lot of kids are involved in karate.  They're involved in for age. They go to the big E with their horses, they have agricultural events, and we've done a number of ellos, and we look to increase that number of ellos and alos where a student can take what they're doing outside of a regular PE  environment and meet those PE competencies, including through sports.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So that is that would be the plan as to how to address getting those PE credits moving forward is a way of expanding those opportunities and looking at the

[R8873-63] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: horses, they have agricultural events, and we've done a number of ellos, and we look to increase that number of ellos and alos where a student can take what they're doing outside of a regular PE environment and meet those PE competencies, including through sports.
TEXT> So that is  that would be the plan as to how to address getting those PE credits moving forward is a way of expanding those opportunities and looking at the accrual of that credit in different ways. The alt position,  as we look and I know the school board asked around this time last year, a lot of really pointed questions about the alternative program  and Owl's and Alt, and isn't it all alt and trying to kind of, you know, what is the Alt program at Stevens High School? And those were really excellent questions because the the whole thing that we're looking at is, what is alternative education at Stevens? And we know that there are a lot of students who,  the traditional way of learning doesn't work for them. Being in Stevens High School doesn't work for them. Being in a regular classroom with, you know, a lecture type or even project based learning doesn't work for them. And so the Owls program with Odyssey, where learning has met the needs of a lot of students who learn differently, who have jobs, who have young children, who have other extenuating circumstances in their lives, and being in school for six and a half, seven hours a day is not going to happen for them, and that we've provided alternative ways for them to get their Stevens High School diploma and met the needs of a lot of kids that way.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: What we're looking to do is expand that. We have an alt program. We've met the needs of a number of students who otherwise would be out of district placements,

[R8873-68] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I have some additional items on the next slide.
TEXT> Supplies. You know, we said we'll we'll reduce and and cut our supplies and and work with what? We have furniture. We just, zeroed out our furniture line,  student accounts. That's where we draw from for assemblies,  for awards, for different things that when something really cool comes along, we want to be able to bring it into Stevens. Like Rachel's Challenge. That's the kind of the account we go to, to to fund those kinds of things. Science equipment, that is an increase. It's not taking away $3,000 more  of what we have this year. They still have their science money in there. They were asking for $3,000 more to get another spectrometer. More things beef up what they currently have. That doesn't mean that we're taking away  that kind of equipment. We're just not getting more equipment.  Same thing with the health equipment, the media books. We've been very, very fortunate to have a very healthy budget for the library all all along. And Miss Raya has done a fantastic job in accruing grant money to supplement the books in the library. And so,  we're looking at this as a one year again, not having  that as much as she still has money for books for replacements, just not as much as was originally in the budget postage. We're we're mailing things less and less. And we looked at our history and we said, we're just not needing that. Another easy cut.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And, the two tech center items, Joel would need to speak to those two. So.

[R8873-84] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'very good point, Frank | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: So if I could.
TEXT> Kind of lump a couple, I'm going to talk about adult alternative editor for a second.  I'm not seeing a one of the problems I have is I'm seeing a blending of, of different what I consider to be very different needs into one big program where I think that there's a huge difference between  students who, as Pat described, may have other obligations. I wrote the grant for ombudsman. I did a lot of research on the purpose of that. And the vast. Majority of students who participate  in Owls  are not behavioral problems. They are school phobic. They have a lot of problems. They just don't fit in.  And putting them into a very highly supported  environment with several adults to support them is what has resulted in in the success we've seen with that program to strip that, and to mingle that with behavioral issues. I cannot support that as a board member.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I just want to clarify the the mingling piece is not part of the plan. So if if that is what you heard, I want to just make sure

[R8873-87] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Patrick, please' [41]  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: that they need. The original ombudsman program had more supports in it. We stripped that back when we turned it into our program, cut it back so we could afford it. To cut that back more, I think I think it'll render the program ineffective.
TEXT> Yeah, I guess I have the same concerns, that Frank mentioned because I, I think I've worked in that alternative education behavioral setting and we'd sense we'd have students going over to owls for different reasons. But it's correct me if I'm wrong. It just sounds like right now we're preparing to get rid of and distinct program, but we don't really have that other plan in place. It sounds like that we have an idea of what we want to do, but then we'd have to create design the plan. It's like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Working.

[R8873-101] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: So part of the.
TEXT> One of the benefits is that the broken up into sessions, students who have  jobs that are really an jobs or early afternoon jobs can take one session over the other, and that varies. Sometimes they lose a job or they get a chance at a new job. I need to switch sessions. A problem is just to switch it, so it varies. But typically it's  it's almost half and half, 10 or 11 versus, you know, ten, 12 versus nine. Sometimes it just changes, right? Can you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Predict what your enrollment might be in March or April?

[R8873-105] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Dillon: all the requirements, the community service and so on. So how that works. Guidance counselors see a need. We now have our SST program flowing along. So there's a lot of oversight of students who are kind of getting into a maybe a bad direction.
TEXT> And the guidance counselors and Nestor get together and they say, yeah, this person's a possibility. They talk to us, they look at the rubric, and then, you know, we proceed to to have them come over. So that really fluctuates. People don't decide to stop coming to school on a schedule. They just wouldn't they throw their hands up. That could be at any time. So no, I don't have any idea. I do know that we have three more students who probably graduate in the next week and a half. If not maybe at the beginning of February. So that's what we're there for.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We also have a number of students in the owls are. Either expectant. Parents or who already have children. So one of the other things we've talked about at the

[R8873-121] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brent Ferland: to owls and get rid of the standard programing. But I really I think the individual approach makes sense. And so you're envisioning that this program director kind of oversees the whole thing and make sure that these individual plans are met and people are.
TEXT> All the Alt program director. Really. Will oversee primarily the behavioral portion of the Alt offerings. Okay, that  and then administration from the high school will oversee the other pieces and be kind of the liaison that works between owls and adult editor and all the other resources that we have, because we're the ones that sit at the table and, and call the meeting together and say, okay, here's a kid who's gone through SST, is this is this an owls candidate? Is this a hybrid situation?
NEXT> Unidentified: I guess.

[R8873-123] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (superintendent refers to 'that sequence | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: I guess.
TEXT> My question to clarify for me as to so I understand this properly, a program like the owls, a student falls into that because of high risk behaviors. Either they're not doing well in the classroom or certainly.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It's not necessarily behaviors. It's just a different learning style and a different learning need another.

[R8873-127] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (superintendent refers to 'that sequence | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: students have, various different domestic challenges that they're dealing with. And, when I say domestic, you know, needs at home that they that they're taking on and or, you know, each scenario for every kid is as different as and unique as the kid. Yeah.
TEXT> One of the things that I struggle with sometimes is when I want to look at my son on the board, and we talk about all the different programs. What about that highly motivated student that says, you know what I want to get out of high school owls was a great plan for me. I can go go get a job, b do something the community and graduate when I'm halfway through my junior year. Is that available to a highly motivated student, or do you have to have.
NEXT> Paulette: Yeah.

[R8873-129] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Paulette: Yeah.
TEXT> That that student would probably cobble together a different set. Using the Alexis as Frank is. He would be in Mr. Silver's taking several courses maybe Odyssey where maybe, you know, doing an independent study with some teachers, maybe a couple of regular classes and, and graduating early that way. That probably would be the way that student would go. Although I wouldn't say that it's not out of the question that owls could be that choice for them. A couple of kids and I was in the past few years who really accelerated themselves through, who were working, were very motivated and just the environment of.
NEXT> Unidentified: The so.

[R8873-131] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (superintendent refers to 'that sequence | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: The so.
TEXT> That currently does exist. And if a student wants to get okay. So. Why can't owls and that kind of work together and meet everybody's needs or is that the direction we're hoping to go?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, Brian, you want to speak to that a little bit more because.

[R8873-136] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: More.
TEXT> It's not like someone is at the high school and they're a senior and they're like. You know, I'm outgrowing this place. I want to get out of here. And so I'm going to  owls.  And guidance counselor hooked me up with Alice. That's not happening. That's not what's going on. When the students identified as having difficulty, they're just not showing up to school because of family situation, because of having to work. And they're the breadwinner for the family. If they're not going because they have, they're feeling bullied, they have personality conflicts,  all those host of things we've talked about, that person is either self-identified like, I need some help. I can't, I'm I'm not going to finish if I stay here  or there, identified through one of the processes that we have at that point  there. They're recommended for owls that, you know, it is suggested to them if they haven't brought it up themselves. And then we meet with that student and the parents and we go through our requirements, our the, the handbook that you have approved and say we're strict, you have to have 90% attendance. You have to, you know, tenants was your problem. You're saying that, oh, I wasn't attending because I didn't like my classes. Okay. We're taking that away.
NEXT> Brian Dillon: So now you better have perfect attendance. Right. And if that's not the case, then, you know, we have a procedure in place. So it's not a an escape valve

[R8873-138] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'very good point, Frank | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Dillon: get, you know, get out of jail early. It's for someone who has been identified either by themselves or by a process that says they're going to be more successful doing this, or they're going to be kept from dropping out by doing this. Yeah.
TEXT> I just want to jump in with a quick little history lesson on on this whole situation in that,  a number of years ago, the state of New Hampshire approved Senate Bill 18, and what that said was that students could not drop out of school until the age of 18. So school districts were faced with the issue. What do we do with students that would have dropped out at age 16? But now they're required that compulsory ed through age 18. What do we do with these students? So the state of New Hampshire made some grant funds available. We applied, we were successful. We did a lot of research based on the premise of the original justification for the, for the grant, the reasons that kids drop out of school,  none of them wanting to get out accelerated, most of them feeling, I just don't belong here. That was that was that is the main reason, according to all the research we did, why the vast majority of students drop out  Owls creates that environment in which those students can come in and feel that they belong  to something they feel at home. They're they're comfortable there. They're successful there. That's why it has the results that it has. Is every student that goes in there perfect? Absolutely not. As Pat said, it is not a four year program. It's that's why there's such a rigid criteria for getting in.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we often have students who come back to the high school from the Alice program. They don't stay there the full two years, and that's another piece, you know.

[R8873-139] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: comfortable there. They're successful there. That's why it has the results that it has. Is every student that goes in there perfect? Absolutely not. As Pat said, it is not a four year program. It's that's why there's such a rigid criteria for getting in.
TEXT> And we often have students who come back to the high school from the Alice program. They don't stay there the full two years, and that's another piece, you know.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But the original concept of the Owls program was 100% pure dropout prevention. That was the whole purpose of of the program originally.

[R8873-147] Brian Dillon | Owls program teacher, Stevens High School (Barry: 'Brian, is it about  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And it's being consolidated to fit the budget so that we're not charging the taxpayers. And it's not necessarily cutting off to unsupported, but rather open up support for more avenues for these children. Is that what I'm hearing?
TEXT> That's what it sounds like. But our position is that is not exactly the case,  that something that is working as is, is not set in concrete, has not been something that is only just exists in the hearts and minds of people that have gone, but is a valid and worthwhile program exists because of its past. History exists because of the the the people and the students who are involved. And has not been static. It has been a growing program. It has evolved. And, we are currently meeting the needs of  a wide variety of students with special consideration to take some courses in Ed and some courses at the high school, some courses at Newport. I mean, all those things are being met as it as it's currently structured, a different structure. You know, you're taking a chance with something that is  viable and has been meeting the needs. And as you hear further comments, you'll hear from students who, you know, said they would not have graduated. And if we graduate between 12 and 24% of Stevens graduating class each year, that's what Sprague was talking about. Those are the people who are at risk.
NEXT> Unidentified: We have.

[R8873-151] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Michelle Pierce: a community and as a school board and as a society to tighten up, to get through then and this and and what I'm hearing is, is this program isn't going away. It's just being revamped to make it better for more accessibility for others.
TEXT> Well, I the way it's currently structured works well. And I think that's what so many people are here  to talk to you about is that it works well. And it has been successful for a lot of kids. When tasked with finding ways to cut the budget, you know, my job is to say, here are possibilities and here are ways that we can continue to do something that we know is successful. But it might look different. And so that's that's why this is on the proposal.
NEXT> Brian Dillon: I mean, that's that's something that you guys have to deal with, but you need to have, you know, the full story.

[R8873-153] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I think, Michelle' [51 | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Dillon: I mean, that's that's something that you guys have to deal with, but you need to have, you know, the full story.
TEXT> I think that any great, successful program that can be only, you know, tightened up and move forward with it, with a better consensus for more is a wonderful way to be able. You should be proud of that. You should be proud of the fact that you're not cutting something, but you're creating something that's going to be even better. My concern is I looked at Bluff School. Bluff school has been all over the place. I've looked at a couple of the other things that have been cut all over the place.  And my concern is I understand that anyone can get out of and have a testimony on how their child or themselves have been successful in a different program. I can tell you this of  my daughter guides reading through Stevens High School. What I'm asking here is, is that we all be considerate of the fact that either we  learn to understand that we have to revamp things, and we have to look at a different alternative, like we did five years or six years ago when we looked at the dropout rates and what we could do different if this is going to service children that, that that are carrying children, that will make it easier for them than, you know, then we need to look at that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'm not denying that it isn't a success, because obviously it's a success. From the people sitting here and from emails that I've read. What I want to see and

[R8873-168] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Sprague: 'I'm going to piggyback on | 2017-01-11
PREV> Chris Irish: the administration just came up with a presentation tonight that we'll be able to, to jive together. So what where I'm going with this, I don't think anything, any of this is written in stone, but I feel compelled to say this about the owls.
TEXT> And Michel kind of touched on it. I'm listening to the conversation, and it's almost the exact opposite of the conversation we had regarding the scheduling issue. The scheduling issue we knew was bad. We knew it was failing. We couldn't get away from it fast enough. The reverse. Now we have a program we know is successful. We know what's working. And my my personal opinion, I don't want to mess with it unless we have absolutely no other choice. And I'm optimistic that I think we'll have other choices. That's me. I think we'll be optimistic. And I true got a lot of feedback from people. But I tell you, the the biggest feedback I got was I was talking to my daughter about it when this all weird at Ted. She wasn't an owls student. She graduated two years ago, but she could not. She enlightened me on how important that program is, on top of what all the the owls graduates has given to me. So yeah, I think this is I don't want to say Sacred cow, but it's working. We know it's working. And if there's any potential way that we cannot touch programs like that and find money somewhere else, that's where I'm coming down and all of this.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But I do appreciate the fact that I appreciate Alex bringing up the athletics. Everything's on the table. We're going to have a great conversation, and one way or the

[R8873-170] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (budget hearing presentation [4-40]; Sprague add | 2017-01-11
PREV> Chris Irish: great conversation, and one way or the other, we're going to we're going to do our best to to, you know, keep the good stuff and not not have to mess with it. But I just I can't say enough good about the owls program.
TEXT> If I may. The one thing I it's sort of unfortunate what happened this week because the plan was to make a presentation and they have detail,  but the word got out from whatever source and suddenly the Owls program is going to be cut. That was never the intent, but I got out and it became it was a wildfire. And it's too bad.  I sat down with Brian Dillon month a month and a half ago with an orientation for a high school student in the Owls program. The House program is critical,  but our our spirit was to undermine something as successful. Our spirit was.  How can we do it better? Can we make adjustments? And so I'm not defending what's on the table. I'm just saying I think part of our angst tonight is what got out without enough detail.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I'm going to open.

[R8873-178] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: So currently the PE teacher or this PE teacher also teaches some other classes of fitness class. Correct.
TEXT> Yeah. Co teaches a couple of sections of fitness and nutrition and also  child care and development.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R8873-181] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: What would happen with those programs.
TEXT> They would be absorbed. Into the health curriculum either with the teacher who's in consumer sciences or our health teacher. So co-taught part of the other piece of what we're looking at strategically to reduce  costs and to increase class, not increase class size, but decrease classes that have small enrollments. Is is we would be eliminating the Co taught classes that we offer. And there's a couple in arts and business. There's a couple in the nutrition section. And so those would go away. That's two sections right there that the health and consumer science teacher could pick up the child care and development or the health, depending on how many students sign up for health. So we sat I've sat with the department heads and looked at what courses would stay in the program of studies, who would take them on, and how that would get divvied up.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: What's the enrollment?

[R8873-185] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: What's the enrollment in like the the nutrition course.
TEXT> That takes 30 for two teachers. It's a 32 student sections of 16 and 16.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R8873-192] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brian Rapp: So there was obviously some need for it.
TEXT> Again, if you're looking if you're looking at the PE portion of it, and if we can provide credit for PE in a variety of other ways that are not traditional PE classes, those are students that don't have to be in a PE classroom getting those credits. Then you take what was really a part time PE position and now look at alternatives. For those remaining sections. Take your child care development, put it into health or consumer science, take your health seminar would be eliminated as part of one of the offerings, and then eliminate your co-taught classes. That opens up the sections that you need so that you don't  need that other part time portion of the of the job. If I'm being articulate,  I don't know if I'm clear enough there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I guess my in looking at the plan, which is kind of a little bit vague, I don't know what community PE means. PE in the community, I think it.

[R8873-196] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'very good point, Frank | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patricia Barry: Oh, when you're looking at the. Yeah. So that's, that's something like Jenkins, you know, that's, that's you're doing something out there, you know, karate nema Jenkins where you're, you're meeting those competencies. It's just not in one of our PE classrooms.
TEXT> And maybe, you know, my my perception of PE was always kind of it was sort of two parts. One was the pedagogy, the  the philosophy of sports, the sportsmanship, these types of things. And the other piece being skill enhancement.  And we had we allowed students to do  PE through sports participation. They got the skill enhancement. But then we had another course called Athletic Principles, in which they had to take if they took the alternative  to learn the sporting pedagogy. And so I see  a lot of pieces here that are either the pedagogy or the skill enhancement, but not both. So I guess I'm wondering how you feel about the fact that both of those, as far as skill development and pedagogy are, is it okay to split those?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, that's that's part of the what a lot of schools have decided it. It is okay. To look in other ways how to combine those two things. And if

[R8873-199] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: About the minimum standard, though, by a certified person.
TEXT> That well, as you read here, this the that second paragraph, a student may earn a maximum of 0.25 credits per year toward the physical graduation requirement. But by successively participating and completing at least one varsity or junior varsity sports season through the SAS through the s h.  S athletic department, the student meets this requirement during each of the four years while enrolled at S, then the student will have met the 1.0 required credit. So as we look at how an ELO is is Delivered and and how an ELO is developed with a student, can that look differently than being in a classroom for the course that you talk about? And so saying that the PE department, the athletic department is still overseeing from that credentialing from that perspective, what that student is doing, are they meeting those competencies? Because that's basically what we're giving credit for, is meeting competencies. If those competencies are met by what that student is doing in that sport with that coach, then that credit is given, but it's still funneling through. It's not out there just in the athletics department. It's still funneling through the academic portion of the school. So it's still being overseen by administration, still being overseen by the guidance counselors, by the curriculum director.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So we've got several people here that I'm sure we'd like to speak. Been very, very quiet, and I appreciate it. Well.

[R8873-224] Brianne Lawrence | Public commenter, Ward 2; former Owls student (self-identified [383]) | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. My name is.  I was an owl students formerly. I just graduated last year. I took the did it for two years. Sorry.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh please I. What's a word?

[R8873-230] Brianne Lawrence | Public commenter, Ward 2; former Owls student (self-identified [383]) | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. For two.
TEXT> Or two. Okay, so my name is Brianne Lawrence from Ward two.  I was an owl student for two years, graduated through that program, and without it, I would probably be a high school dropout. I know, I know Mr. Viso. I know Mr. Sprague. They could probably I had a lot of issues in school. You know, without them, I wouldn't have graduated. And I have a quick question for a the superintendent and Miss Barry, have either of you guys ever really  sat inside the owls classrooms during either of the sessions? Like really spent a whole day in there getting to know the students, watching how they interact with each other and the teachers. Have you guys  have. You.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have.

[R8873-267] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Sprague: 'I'm going to piggyback on | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brent Ferland: I'm just curious.
TEXT> What this athletic director trainer does is she's there at all the games. If a kid gets.
NEXT> Unidentified: Hurt, okay.

[R8873-276] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, former Owls student (name not capture | 2017-01-11
PREV> Chris Irish: I don't think it's a coincidence how well athletics have improved with between having that position filled and our new athletic director. I don't think there's a coincidence in that at all. I think that's because of the people that are there doing the job.
TEXT> Program two years ago, and. The only reason I even graduated is the same story. You're probably going to hear from anybody who came from owls now is they saved my life. And honestly, it's the only reason I am where I am today is because of them. I owe it all to them. And I will think both of these two right here, Doctor Dillon and Miss Beatty, however many times I need to. Because honestly, they are the only reason. But. But I want to know is if owls is working so well, why are you going to cut one teacher away? That that that gives less talking with tween teachers. If one teacher is busy with another kid, you know you can't just sit there and not get any help or get, Like there's not enough teacher to go around with one teacher.  That's the reason ALS was so great to me was because I had that sit down one on one time with the teacher, instead of having to sit there and listen to a teacher talk for an hour and 45 minutes, I didn't hear anything that they were saying, so just  wanted to know how it's still going to work out so well with one teacher.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think, you know, and it comes back to what I just said about everything be on the table. It's a practical, practical application. The budget process, their their role

[R8873-283] Judy Couture | Public commenter, lifelong Claremont resident, retired Stevens physica | 2017-01-11
PREV> Patrick Adrian: don't think that we can answer this time, at least to me, is indication that I'm not. I would I would never move forward without being able to answer that kind of question. I mean, I think that was just an excellent question to ask.
TEXT> Judy, lifelong resident of Claremont, 40 years as 4 to 39 years as physical education teacher in the Claremont School System. I'm here to share an initial response to this week's news of the elimination of the physical education position at Stevens High School. Although I feel that recommendation is ill conceived and perhaps Pennywise and pound foolish. I would simply like to inform the board that we are trying to come up with all the facts that we need to present to you to show that this is either worthwhile or not worthwhile. Hope that we're given that opportunity and that bit of time so that we can do this before the February 8th board meeting, a deliberative session, and happy to hear that lots of things are on the board, on the on your plate and that nothing is taken off. And thank you, Mr. Sprague, for making some of those comments. And getting us to think about is one  person enough to supply physical education for a 500 or over 500 students? When I left four years ago, there were two and two thirds physical educators, and I just think one is not quite enough. But we'll come back to you with some information and some facts, and hopefully that will help you make that decision. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[R8873-287] Veronica Bellair | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified [475]; ASR spelling unverifi | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: Can you explain everyone what that is?
TEXT> The,  it's it's a special needs class that Carolyn teaches, for kids that are aren't able to do a regular sport, is my understanding. I maybe I'm not making it clear, but that's how I.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Multiply handicap.

[R8873-295] Unidentified | Unidentified - roll caller for the board meeting and nonpublic votes [ | 2017-01-11
PREV> Shauna Baird: so they can do the same thing. And I fear obviously with the budget, if you if you change that, you package that up, try to tell people that's the same thing. I, I like to be optimistic really, but I'm not sure that is.
TEXT> Yeah. I'd like to see that. And I'd also like to what's the completion rate then. So the 44 students in the owls and then. 23, 23.
NEXT> Shauna Baird: I'm really glad you asked me that actually. So when we first came here from we had 45 students, we had three teachers, we had two certified teachers, and we

[R8873-297] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: superintendent hands back with | 2017-01-11
PREV> Shauna Baird: The success rate I think you've read is pretty high. I don't have exact numbers on the success rate, but in a year I would estimate that I only see 5 or 6 students leave without me really fighting for them to to stick around.
TEXT> So that's, that's that's important. I want to thank you for that because it it helped me realize something that it's not just the potentially 15 students in the morning, 15 at night.  There are more kids that that come in and are successful and leave and and more kids are more than just the 30 for the whole year. It's right. Constantly kids coming in and and being successful.
NEXT> Shauna Baird: Right. And I think it's important to look at all of our options as well. But I think falling through the cracks means Stephens doesn't work necessarily, for whatever reason.

[R8873-300] Shauna Baird | Owls program teacher (self-identified 'I teach the alternative program | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: So okay. Thank you gales. Oh yeah. Yeah. So I know that dissertation was presented across the state.
TEXT> Well she interviewed students and. Yeah.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Anybody else? See nobody else. John. Oh, we have someone in the back. John.

[R8873-309] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: lot of things being discussed or heard about what's going to happen, and I think the waters are quite muddied. So hopefully Principal Barry can clear some of the water tonight for us, knowing that the intent has never been to eliminate the LS program.
TEXT> So, you know, when you hear adult ed adult editor in its traditional when it means adult ed 18 and over. However, Amy Hood in that position has been able to work with us to say, how can she in that position, work with students who are not adult ed kids and provide other opportunities to meet their competencies, meet credit recovery? You know, we met with with Amy this week, talked about a student who, otherwise had been in owls and, and had now a new set of circumstances that wasn't working for them. What can we do that's plan C for that student that would incorporate what Amy could provide. And maybe it's it's not something that necessarily is happening now, but maybe in a few months, maybe it happens over the summer because that students timeline right now in owls isn't working. And so here's  here's another pathway, here's another plan that might work for that kid and that kid's unique circumstances at this point in their their high school career. So when when I say adult dead, I should have clarified a little bit more. It's there is the traditional debt and the the role that that plays. But what I'm talking about is,  is Amy and the access and the resources that she has to other pathways for students, in addition to what owls can provide, that can get kids to graduation.
NEXT> Unidentified: That.

[R8873-312] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: Can you piggyback there, actually get a specific budget question? So I'm looking at a line here and it says this HS adult high high school tuition and it's $8,000. Yes. Is that related to this proposal.
TEXT> That has been in there? Because one of the things that we have been hoping to do, let's say we have, a. A class number of students who have failed math and let's say they're seniors or doesn't even have to be seniors and their ability to retake that class, maybe it's the second time they failed algebra.  Let's talk about that. Amy can hire a teacher at about $1,500. We can put together a class of students. This is something that we're we're working towards, not something that we've been able to get going yet. Put that class to get credit and or competency recovery  using that teacher in a nighttime or afternoon venue. That gives those students an opportunity to get an algebra credit in different way, because obviously the first couple of times didn't work for them in a traditional classroom setting. So either in an afternoon or an evening opportunity for credit or competency recovery. So that 8000 was thinking, if we got four core teachers to provide for core competency or credit recovery opportunities through the adult ed program, students could then have different opportunities for passing classes where they're not being successful now. So that's that was the purpose of that. Eight grant okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions?

[R8873-314] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat. Barry ... Pat, i | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions?
TEXT> Also just just a sidebar, you know. Ideally, and I think I speak for every one of my colleagues,  we would so much rather be up here with the problem of you telling us that there was, you know, we have an extra million dollars. Tell us what extra teachers you want to add and what extra programs you want to put in, because that's that's why we show up to work every day. You know, when none of us got into the business to dismantle anything or tear anything down or provide less opportunities for students. So, you know, the proposals that we present to you tonight are hard fought. You know, none of them are easy. None of them were things that we wanted to do. If we all had our druthers, every single one of these things would stay put. So I you know, I think it's important for people to understand that  we're faced with the task of telling you how to cut $850,000, and we put our best foot forward and tried to to kind of take what we thought was on the periphery without touching any vital organs. And, you know, obviously the, the final decisions up to you, but these things are very, very difficult and nothing that we ever want to have to do. So  I hope people understand that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: It's that. Everyone. Has worked so hard to. Try to bring. This to. A smaller section for the public, because there is a point where we're going to have to

[R8873-320] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Patrick, please' [41]  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Cory LeClair: school level, the school approval standards dictate that each of those buildings have the services of a library media specialist or library media generalist. So currently in our in our current model, we do meet school approval standards for the that position in those services.
TEXT> I guess John's point and  some things to consider. And I understand that that the way that we're looking at the pair professionals carrying out. Responsibilities. But to come to the curriculum and it's signed by the by the one teacher, there's a lot. There's also  a  lot of adaptions, curriculum adaptions that I imagine that the pair professional Maple Avenue and  what Disney's the other especially with with these students. We have a lot of students to come in with. I p they're students with certain with certain, that needs certain individualized attention. And I, you know, and I imagine there has to be a lot of constant kind of adapting of the curriculum and the the curriculum and the instruction. And the plan is the, is that main teacher  kind of taking care of that because it I, I imagine right now that really something that that paraprofessionals doing I know it's something that that there's a lot to discuss with it. It's really difficult ideally I and from my understanding, you know, there's a time that we might have made this more a position in between parent, teacher and I guess the situation is a collective bargaining force us to work between one or the other. And it's, it, you know, it's hard, but I, I, I just wanted to kind of bring that up.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: It, I find it still a very challenging situation for us to call some things pear professional. I understand the position, but it's I just think it's going to be

[R8873-338] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Sprague: 'I'm going to piggyback on | 2017-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: I need to do this. That I think.
TEXT> They'd be a good. That's a. Good thing to have. I, I guess I'd like to go one step further. And how many teams do we have at the different schools and how many students participating?
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R8873-341] Alex Herzog |  | 2017-01-11
PREV> Brent Ferland: I appreciate the comment that athletic programs are almost like another alternative, but I part of me thinks we might that might be a place for some cutting. Not that I'm against bowling, but I don't know that. Is that something we need to fund?
TEXT> I think there's different costs associated. Different sports. Yeah. That's. Yeah. I'd love to talk to you, athletic director, because I'd like to know what percentage of students go on. I know there's residual learning when it comes to involvement in sports. I was involved in sports. You know, I know that there's some good things that come about it, but I think we need to take a look at everything. And I'd like to get some data in regards to how many go on to play college sports. I'd like to answer the question, how many students are involved? Because activities like, you know, sports is a student activity. Let's be honest, that's how it started. And so.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Footnote on what French said, though I think it's another data piece, is not just how many teams but what what are the participation levels, how many, what's the capacity

[R8875-7] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Unidentified: Right here.
TEXT> And I will say,  Brian is home sick, and Michelle is home with a sick child. So I knew the two of them were definitely not going to be here. Agenda amendments and final approval.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may. We need to add, school board member resignation to the agenda. And I will get into more detail with this, when this item is discussed. I also

[R8875-18] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: I move, we accept. The minutes from. I'm trying to think of when the date was our last meeting. Fourth meeting. January 4th.
TEXT> A second favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay. Student representatives report.
NEXT> Marion: Good evening. So, the advanced data lake, the Mary, then Sandy of Mary Girard was a success. Mrs. Flores in Richmond class was called meeting for a cause. We have

[R8875-19] Marion | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name o | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: A second favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay. Student representatives report.
TEXT> Good evening. So, the advanced data lake, the Mary, then Sandy of Mary Girard was a success.  Mrs. Flores in Richmond class was called meeting for a cause. We have anywhere between 4 to 6 students. Knitting scarves and hats to be given to families in need.  On Thursday, we will be giving them to the homeless shelter and to Bluff School. In the future, we will be going  to all other schools from guidance. Out of 434 submitted applications by the class of 2017, 77 of those applications resulted offers an admission and the rest are unknown at this point. Overall, 42% of our senior class has applied to college thus far. And this report was from a week ago, so that number has raised since then. As of December 19th, this high school attendance rate has increased in  91.06%. We are still shy of our goal of 9,093% for the year, but this trend is going in the right direction. The average for last year was 89%. And then from bluff. Bluff had a wonderful improvements in their math fact assessments. Grades one and two average of 15% growth in addition, and 22% growth in subtraction. Grades 3 to 5 average to 15% growth and multiplication and a 16% growth in division. We are excited for the next week and that's all I have for you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Any questions? Thank you very much. What was the what was the percentage for tendency in 91?

[R8875-26] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: Welcome.
TEXT> Josh Malloy is here tonight to answer any questions regarding instructional technology.  He comes with a very, very solid background and and will help us to allow our instructional technology department, as measured by student access, faculty access, and how we use technology to go to the next level. So welcome, Josh. I was once told by a school board member when we are going through budget challenges, in my prior position, the board member said I didn't sign on to be a school board member to do this, and what the school board member was saying was, you know, I'm here to support education, not to take take away. But in truth, when we're dealing with budget challenges, it oftentimes is a process where  school board members  have to follow their conscience and follow also  their best and most informed decisions. Part of the a report put out by the New Hampshire School Board Association includes the roles and responsibilities of school board. And there's one section that talks about the hardest lessons. Let me just share a couple of these with you that no matter what you think you know about school board service, when you first come on board, you still have a lot to learn.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You can say that about superintendent of the schools, by the way, that you can't solve everyone's problems by yourself. That the primary focus of all board decisions must be

[R8875-28] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: through the budget and provide additional information. So ultimately, a decision will be made in preparation for the deliberative session on February 8th. Last Friday, there was an incident at Stevens High School, an incident meaning that, a student the day before it was learned.
TEXT> Created a threat, quote unquote, a Wi-Fi connection named school shooting. 11317. The school administration working closely with the police department of Thursday afternoon. And by Friday after Friday morning  the 13th,  by mid-morning, the matter had been resolved. The student had been identified. Police authorities, parents know the words. The case closed, but we did learn something from that. The power of social media,  Facebook,  texting, created sort of a barnstorm.  And even though the issue had been resolved two hours before, an hour before lunch on the 13th,  later in the day, it took another turn. And with Facebook and other social media,  it became it became very uncomfortable for some parents. The good news is that some of the parents contacted Pat Berry and myself. And today  I met with our school administration and we reviewed it. How could we have done things differently? Because by ten, by 10:00 the case was closed, but it really wasn't closed because of how the information continued. So there is a concept called business continuity planning. And business continuity planning is a protocol, whereas if something interrupts our business, we have a way of addressing it without disrupting the business and really hampering it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And part of that is involved a business continuity team. So how that's going to play out as we will establish a business continuity team. So if there is an

[R8875-29] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: wasn't closed because of how the information continued. So there is a concept called business continuity planning. And business continuity planning is a protocol, whereas if something interrupts our business, we have a way of addressing it without disrupting the business and really hampering it.
TEXT> And part of that is involved a business continuity team. So how that's going to play out as we will establish a business continuity team. So if there is an issue at a school, this team, staff members within our district, this team will converge on the school, provide any necessary support as well as communicate, provide the appropriate communication to parents. Or in this case, I was contacted by Oetker and the Eagle Times  midday on the 13th. So with this business continuity team, we can support the administration regardless of the school and also communicate appropriately with parents,  as well as the media. An example would be  there was an incident or of a concern of a threat. That matter is not a threat. It's been taken care of. In other words, brief without identifying the student. And it would allow the community to know and get ahead of  the social media and the texting, which takes a life of its own. So,  I told a parent who contacted me,  on Saturday afternoon, I told the parent that I'm going to discuss it with the administration.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And it's not about Stevens High School. It's really about our district. And because of how information can become misinformation unintentionally, we want to get ahead of that and enhance

[R8875-52] Judy Couture | Public commenter, Ward 2; retired Stevens High School physical educati | 2017-01-18
PREV> Judy Couture: but not physical education per se. They're not getting a physical education credit for that. The blue are the three classes that she teaches in the our general department, but not in physical education. And the black are the preparation periods that they each have.
TEXT> As  on the January 11th, when Doctor Goodwin mentioned that we were looking or you were looking at classes and class sizes as part of,  educational efficiency, we  decided that we wanted to look at our numbers because we feel that our numbers are pretty right up there in that ideal range of 80 to 85%. And as we went through, there was  an availability of 404 slots. In parentheses are the maximum number of students that can be in the class  outside are the actual numbers. That's true for quarter one and two, not necessarily for three and four. Only because we get additions,  drops and adds as well. But we're most times we're up in. As you can see, when I did the numbers out we were 81%. Part of that is is tough because I think that they've allotted a lot of slots for  adaptive physical education, which is 15. And, that is a lot of students even with right now,  I'm a parent in Carolyn's class, and there are three pairs that are in there and we have ten students and that's a lot.  So I just think if you if you lowered that number down a little, we'd be in that 85% range.
NEXT> Judy Couture: So I think just by looking at those numbers, we do very well as far as accommodating a lot of students. So efficiency wise, I think it would just show

[R8875-53] Judy Couture | Public commenter, Ward 2; retired Stevens High School physical educati | 2017-01-18
PREV> Judy Couture: now, I'm a parent in Carolyn's class, and there are three pairs that are in there and we have ten students and that's a lot. So I just think if you if you lowered that number down a little, we'd be in that 85% range.
TEXT> So I think just by looking at those numbers, we do very well as far as accommodating a lot of students. So efficiency wise, I think it would just show you that we need for 2017, 2018, the same number of physical educators that we have  for 2016, 2017. The second part of this is just trying to explain how many blocks there are. 16 blocks,  that a teacher could teach. Each teaches 12, most teach 12.  We've kind of had it whittled away a little bit and that some was taken away from the physical education last year. So Carolyn is in essence, now, 87.5% of her teaching day is physical education. Those  she has those other three classes, she teaches nine blocks of physical education and three  of,  family health to our one is a health class and to our,  child development classes. The last part, that I bothered me a little bit when I saw the proposal for Miss Sperry was, the ellos or the alternative credits that might be earned,  in order to fulfill that one credit.  I have an issue.  The language right now.  I also in your packet, I did put our current board policy on ellos and alternative learning plans there.
NEXT> Judy Couture: In there, I hope you just look at the, at least that first paragraph on how this would be accomplished. It is very, time intense. We had been asked as

[R8875-54] Judy Couture | Public commenter, Ward 2; retired Stevens High School physical educati | 2017-01-18
PREV> Judy Couture: was, the ellos or the alternative credits that might be earned, in order to fulfill that one credit. I have an issue. The language right now. I also in your packet, I did put our current board policy on ellos and alternative learning plans there.
TEXT> In there, I hope you just look at the, at least that first paragraph on how this would be accomplished. It is very, time intense.  We had been asked as departments and kudos to Carolyn and Jeremy for  the terrific job they did when I retired. We had physical education, we had fitness and nutrition, and we had adaptive. They have broadened that because they've been asked to raise that bar, and they have. And now they were asked to come up with competencies and learning targets, which they did. That is in your packet as well.  The packet consists of national standards or state outcomes, as well as the current Stevens High School competencies and learning targets. They have made this a very rigorous class, a lot of alternatives for students to choose from. So to see that projected for next year would be  some ELO learning opportunities that would involve PE online,  PE competencies with other SAS  courses as well as PE in the community. I have a little bit of a problem with that, only because why did we why do we have these competencies that these students that would be taking a physical education course would have to meet, that other students could just say, I bold twice a week, and so I should be able to get my physical education credit for that.
NEXT> Judy Couture: If you look at those ellos or those, advanced learning those, it's pretty time intensive for what's going to have to happen. I don't know who is going to do

[R8875-61] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: merit behind our education that we're giving these students? I think it should be much higher than giving students the opportunity to get ellos from all these. I've seen a sheet of paper saying all these community activities that isn't physical education. That's an activity.
TEXT> The last three years of budget cuts. I've also been told, don't take this personally. It's a number they need to get rid of. My number, my pay.  All right. Within the last three years that I've. Over the last three years that I've been here, the budget cuts four times. Physical education has been dismantled at the high school four times. First it was Jenkins and the dance program. And one of these ideas is to bring it back out into the community. Well, you took it away from him. He used to have this. What? What's to say? He's going to even want to be a part of this anymore. I mean, that's totally up to him, but that may not even be an option. And he took part in my position. And then last year, you took Judy adaptive class,  and now you're back to try and get the rest of mine last year. I feel big shoes. Judy is amazing with the adaptive kids,  and it's been really tough. I've been extremely lucky that she  has been one on one pair in my class.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: You can ask anyone in the life skills program or any of these kids that are here tonight. The students that are in that program don't take to change. Well,

[R8875-63] Carolyn Hamilton | Public commenter, Ward 1; physical education teacher, Stevens High Sch | 2017-01-18
PREV> Carolyn Hamilton: time they ever step on that field. Many NFL players who you would consider very much proficient in their ability area in football, when they're done playing, they have an extremely hard time transitioning out of no longer playing football and into a healthy lifestyle.
TEXT> Often they don't transition well at all because they've never known anything other than football. So to say that a kid is going to get a credit for playing a sport, to me, the NFL players are a perfect example of why sports are not a replacement for physical education. I came here knowing no one. Within about five minutes of some texts and calls, I got 15 people who believe in what I do and. I just I think that it's extremely important that a full time physical education, two full time physical education positions stay at Stevens. I have put together,  and  I, I am happy that it's being told to me that in some way or another that the Ed is still staying around, but in any means. I don't exactly know what that all looks like, but I do know  that yes, those may be your numbers for getting rid of me, but I also know  that I bring to the board a lot more than just my teaching. I have brought to you guys unified basketball. I created a unified track program. We brought home a unified basketball state runner up championship.  I against D1 schools because unified is across the board. The only team we lost who was keen, who's D1. I consider that a championship where a D3 school.
NEXT> Carolyn Hamilton: I have put myself out there and dedicated myself to this school district when I had absolutely nothing. I knew I had no commitment here at all. I have put

[R8875-66] Brian | Public commenter, Stevens High School student (first name only: 'My na | 2017-01-18
PREV> Brian: my four science credits. I mean, I think that I want to try something new. So for a credit, I was able to work one on one during my whole every single day during fourth quarter downstairs with special education as a one on one.
TEXT> And, that's going on top of being in there every single Friday during my peer outreach program. And this was  doing  not only school work, not only  health classes, not only gym classes, but this is having lunch with them. This is going out taking walks with them. This is having them come and be comfortable around somebody when they don't want to talk to Miss Fontaine, Mrs. Kocher, Mrs. Hamilton, it's really difficult for a student like myself even to get comfortable with an adult, but I can't even imagine how hard it is for a special education student to get comfortable with somebody. I remember working downstairs with a girl named Mikayla. She was one of the funniest, most amazing people you ever meet.  And she wouldn't even talk to me. The first two months I was there, every single day I'd be like, hey, Michaela, how you doing? I'd work with her. I'd try to make funny jokes, but I just looked like a funny guy over there to her.
NEXT> Brian: And then one day, finally, I broke through and we had a conversation. While playing basketball on her team. She made a basket. She got excited, I got excited, we

[R8875-72] Barbara Richards | Public commenter, Ward 3; accounting and business instructor, Sugar Ri | 2017-01-18
PREV> Barbara Richards: year. My concern is that once a program is let go from the Korean tech program, I don't see it ever coming back. When I first started teaching here many years ago, in 1974, Stevens High School was the number one school in the state.
TEXT> There were 1200 students in this school,  and  we had over 125 students participating in accounting. And that unfortunately has diminished over the years so that now we're we have one full time business teacher at the high school, Charlie Gessner, teaches the honors economics class. And then what I have been teaching. So my concern is if the program is let go, that we may not ever get it back. It is a rigorous program of study. It's offered as a running start course, which means that students can earn dual credit.  They not only earn their high school credit, but they can also earn credit at River Valley Community College,  which allows them to transfer that credit to many universities and schools throughout New England. Some of the schools we've had students go to Plymouth State, Keene State, Saint Mike's, Bentley, University of Hartford, University of New Hampshire, McIntosh, Babson, Southern New Hampshire University, to name a few. We've had students who've gone here, gone to Southern New Hampshire University, and they've gone into the three year honors program. We've had students who have graduated from those institutions, and they've received their bachelor's degree, their master's degree. And we have some students who are working on their CPAs,  and their degrees have been in not just accounting.
NEXT> Barbara Richards: Some have been in business management, business administration, economics, and so forth. And the good thing for them is that they're earning more currently than I am after 40 years

[R8875-80] Kiara Knight | Public commenter, Stevens High School student and unified track athlet | 2017-01-18
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Good point. Thanks.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Kiara Knight, and I'm here to discuss the physical education.  And I'm not only a former student or a current student of Miss Hamilton's, but I'm also an athlete on her unified track team. We all have routines in our daily lives. Many of us wake up in the morning, we make coffee, eat our breakfast, and head off to our daily endeavors. In the same vein, children thrive in an ordered and predictable home and school environment where their caregivers and teachers approach daily routines such as mealtimes. Children in the adaptive program especially benefit from the practice of routines, whether it's in school or teachers, parents, friends. They like routine. This helps them gain a sense of security and stability. It helps them build their self-confidence and it even decreases challenging behaviors. Miss Hamilton has worked with the Adaptive program for five consecutive years, and I have personally witnessed the unbreakable bond she has created with each and every one of her students. Alongside her dedication in the classroom, Miss Hamilton has showed a significant amount of support outside of the classroom. After teaming up with Mr. House, Stevens old athletic director, Miss Hamilton started what is now called our Unified Sports Teams. These teams give the adaptive kids a chance to excel and break out of their shells.
NEXT> Kiara Knight: As athletes, we team up with these kids and compete against other unified teams in sports such as basketball and track. Miss Hamilton would be a terrible loss to not

[R8875-102] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: and you don't have any money in the budget to replace things that break, we could end up in a scenario where we don't have things, and sometimes we need things to be able to deliver programs. So, it's not to say you have to.
TEXT> Well, the board can choose to do with that what they wish. But, you know, something to consider is if you're not going to buy new things, then you have to have money to fix the broken things when they break. And, and, and along those same lines, there are certainly some things that could be reduced further, some things that administration felt that after meeting with teachers, you know, if you wipe out the supply line for the plumbing class and bring it to zero, it's kind of hard to deliver a plumbing program if you don't have copper and PEX and things of that nature to actually show students how to plumb things. So I'm not sure how you want to proceed from there, but I just wanted to give a little context. There are actually audience members tonight, which is nice and obviously the  folks listening at home, and I didn't know if people really knew what was meant by red and yellow and the board spreadsheet.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, their one recommendation, I think we can gloss over the areas where the administration is close to the school board. I think where we're apart needs to

[R8875-203] Michael Lansing | Bluff School administrator, likely principal (LeClair calls on 'Michae | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: that. So the furniture, my understanding, there's a piece of broken furniture, bluff new media equipment, and replacement equipment and media furniture looking to increase the efficiency of the library media center in Bluff Elementary to increase instructional time. Time on task guidance, replacement equipment.
TEXT> Guidance or replacement equipment. Each year. Bluff bluff guidance department, we'll take on new techniques.  We'll deal with some of the challenges that we have from students who move into our school. And, some of the equipment we buy will will help take on those challenges. Will help expand our anti-bullying curriculum and other stuff, our guidance departments trying to build as well as replacing any materials or anything like that that she  may need to help, to, to to help take on the daily challenges at bluff.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So and again, as we have these discussions, I just feel I need to say because people love to twist words all the time when we have these back and

[R8875-248] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I think Frank's right' [227] af | 2017-01-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: several pages. In fact, I believe there are ten pages of information that that Doug put together. And with that in mind, do you have any particular questions for Doug? I know there was a everything that was asked for last week is listed here.
TEXT> I'll go first. Thank you. Doug. Nice job. Thank you. By the way, Brant was here last week, and he. And, he proposed, made a suggestion that we cut a team, and it was my, my response to that was, it would be great to see, saturation levels in these sports. And and you did that, which is fantastic because I think it's important for the board to know,  what participation rates are in sports. Not only how many sports do we have, what does it cost, but how many kids benefit from those. And so I think it's important to look at sports that maybe don't have the enrollments that they should.
NEXT> Doug Beaupre: And I wasn't at the meeting, but I did hear through the grapevine, you know, a couple sports being thrown around. And one thing I do want to point out,

[R8875-258] Doug Beaupre | Athletic Director, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Doug Beaupre, a | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: I guess what happens to those funds, where do they.
TEXT> Get you? They go into gate, and a lot of times what we'll do is we will. I mean, obviously we pay Project Grad for because they're the ones who are who are doing the work. It's used for things that aren't budgeted for, sometimes going to conferences, going to the leadership conferences. We'll use that money. In fact, we'll be coming to you in a few weeks time because we need to get approval, because we do have a overnight leadership conference that we're going to be bringing students to. Also, senior gifts, the flowers at the end of each senior at the end of each season for the seniors and the visiting seniors. We'll take that money out of that. And, you know, things that that kind of pop up throughout the regular year.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: What is The Athletic? Because I'm new to this and, you know, I've worked in colleges, so I'd like to know, what do you guys do for sponsorships. Do you

[R8875-263] Doug Beaupre | Athletic Director, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Doug Beaupre, a | 2017-01-18
PREV> Alex Herzog: To athletics.
TEXT> And, and those those go to the specific sport that is doing that fundraiser. It's a fundraiser. Yeah. That doesn't come into athletics. I mean, it doesn't come into the general Athletic Fund. It will be, you know, if the football team  runs it or the basketball team, you know, it will go into their student account.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And along those lines, two hours. One of the policies we made the change to this year was the I can't remember exactly what it was, but it was about

[R8875-286] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Alex is here' in roll call [5] | 2017-01-18
PREV> Doug Beaupre: Yeah, that'd be great.
TEXT> Doug, just quickly looking at the numbers, what do you ballpark a percentage of students that do more than one sport?
NEXT> Doug Beaupre: I would say the majority of them I, I would say that number is probably about 65, 70% that will do multiple sports. And you know, we that's why I

[R8875-289] Doug Beaupre | Athletic Director, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Doug Beaupre, a | 2017-01-18
PREV> Alex Herzog: So you you couldn't add up the numbers and say, these are my totally participated athletes because you can't play soccer and football at the same time, right?
TEXT> And you can't. Well, we have a few who will do more than one sport in the same season. For example, we have a basketball player who also bowls, but most of those, most of the bowling events are on Saturday and we don't have any Saturday games. We work it out amongst the coaches, and if it doesn't work for either one of the coaches, then the  student athlete chooses one of the sports. We also do that we have a couple girls soccer players who are also on the spirit team. But that's not very not very many. I mean, we're probably talking 4 or 5 at the most.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Was there any big ticket equipment, athletic wise, that you needed that was in the budget? I didn't see it, but.

[R8875-336] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Patricia Barry: he left us. We've been looking to refill that position since and have not found anybody. Starting salary for that is, is it's makes it even more difficult. So it's like the physics position. It's like gold trying to find that, that kind of individual.
TEXT> So my understanding moving forward is that there would be dollars in the budget to maintain a part time person to continue to teach the accounting program, which would maintain that CTE opportunity for students, but not the full time position, which, is the the counterpart to what Lori Stammer does at Stevens, which is the ICT and other media and computer courses.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So what's the enrollment for that program for here then for this year? Next year?

[R8875-340] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: What is it for this year?
TEXT> For this year we don't have the teacher. So we've got what you heard from from Barb Richards. And I couldn't tell you for certain. I don't know if you have those numbers there. What the enrollment in that program is right now. I want to say I don't even want to get eight. Okay. I was going to say 11, but it's about eight right now, so. And, you know, that's what Barb was talking about with the reduction enrollment. It's it's a rigorous course. And so it's like a physics course, you're only going to get a certain type of student that is going to want that, that course. But to be able to offer it obviously opens up a whole lot of opportunities for those eight students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So we don't have the teacher this year.

[R8875-372] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: and that made sense. So that's not the maple. That's not the same as not a new position. It's just moving it from one line. Yeah. Perfect. And that's not the maple. That's not. I'm sorry. Not me. That's not the preschool one talking about.
TEXT> No, that's for the high school students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Right. Okay. Is anybody else have any of the the big the ones that were.

[R8875-385] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So what are what is that?
TEXT> Okay. So the accommodations that was actually $8,000 was last year under adult Ed, and it got moved to the regular accommodations line. So it's just a shifting. And that's what we have slated to pay adult ed for students who are taking adult ed courses as part of their high school curriculum. As part of some of those individual plans we were talking about, or ways of using credit recovery through adult ed for them to hire  teachers, which is about $1,500 for a teacher to teach a credit recovery course through adult debt. So that's that 8000.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: There's actually a different line for that fat. So there's two 8000 lines. So the the adult ed under high school tuition. That's a 560 line a few lines down

[R8875-393] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: It says summer school stipend description.
TEXT> For the for the under accommodations. Okay. So that's all right. Thank you. So that's for the that is for the proposed summer school which we've been using for free of years ago we had Dartmouth students. That program went away last couple of years we've been using Granite State tutors. So we've been able to provide, some very minimal competency recovery through Granite State. But, it's been very minimal. So we were proposing to run a full summer school for full credit recovery this year, and that's the money that was slated for that. So that is new. That's money that haven't been there before. And that was why to create a legit summer school using our teachers, not going through anyone else.
NEXT> Chris Irish: To Quarries point, I guess. Yeah. Do we have anything specific to the the building heads. Just because I'm watching John's back there and it's going to make me start

[R8875-395] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: didn't, would those be necessary if we elected not to not to do anything with owls this year? I guess that's why I was trying to understand where to talk about this restructuring. So I thought that those were tied to the restructuring plan. No.
TEXT> No, no, they're really to just, Acknowledge the real role of the people in, in those positions and the responsibilities that they are doing. And to what we learned this year with the Ault position was that that individual, in order to run that program, needs to take on more administrative responsibilities and duties because, you know, Mr. Schneider is running the tech program here. We're over administrating the other building over there. And the issues that she deals with, with the behavioral students that she has in that program are far above a regular teaching position. So we want to honor that and and elevate that title and the responsibilities and change that job description to really reflect what she has been doing and needs to be doing. And the same with our discipline. Monitor the position as that that was created, by Frank has multiplied in its duties and responsibilities. And so both of those stipends are to to honor and respect that work.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Okay. So so how many are we how many do we have in this program right now?

[R8875-397] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: Okay. So so how many are we how many do we have in this program right now?
TEXT> How many students in the program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just not the same as owls?

[R8875-401] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: I understand, I understand, I just.
TEXT> Want to say we are at nine, but we have about three. More. Capped at 12. Right. We have 2 or 3 students. Who are we? We are currently having meetings about and with who are potential candidates for the program in the coming weeks and months.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But.

[R8875-407] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (LeClair: 'Mike can maybe explain this'  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Not ratio.
TEXT> Guidelines from the. State. Around this. Is one teacher. To. To eight students. And then after you go over eight students it's one teacher and one para. And then you can add Paris as, as you need. But it is that particular program  separate from it's not the Owls program.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I'm talking about. The program.

[R8875-409] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (LeClair: 'Mike can maybe explain this'  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: I'm talking about. The program.
TEXT> Is a special Ed approved program. So you're capped at 12. So you have to have your ratio has to be more about it's got to be more than 50% of your identified kids. Have you have that more than 50% of of the program has to be identified kids.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So do we. And do we have we have any, any pairs with that work?

[R8875-470] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey LeClair has do | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: a general observation that, you know, with the available. And I noticed the explanation say that, you know, we're still mailing report cards home to those folks that don't have internet access in such a way, it seems like two and $3,000 still for postage.
TEXT> The other thing that I so I asked principals about that, what is our why do we see the postage lines? The,  last, last thought postage. And what was the one right near it? Printing. Thank you. So at the elementary schools. The other thing that they mentioned today that I didn't get a chance to add on to here, is that anytime we have a student, move out of our district, we are responsible for forwarding those records to the new school. So there's a mailing cost associated with that. In addition to the other things listed, such as, you know, certified letters for special education documentation that needs to go home to parents. The report cards for the families who don't access them electronically yet. And different things of that nature. We have to communication with DCF and with the courts, things of that nature.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And when you when you are dealing with children who are somewhat mobile, their cumulative folder can be quite come, quite heavy. So 3 or 4 pounds worth of mileage.

[R8875-471] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: certified letters for special education documentation that needs to go home to parents. The report cards for the families who don't access them electronically yet. And different things of that nature. We have to communication with DCF and with the courts, things of that nature.
TEXT> And when you when you are dealing with children who are somewhat mobile, their cumulative folder can be quite come, quite heavy.  So 3 or 4 pounds worth of mileage.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's not always just an envelope. Sometimes it's a box.

[R8875-483] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'if I'm correct, Patric | 2017-01-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: Different things.
TEXT> Some of those files have some and yeah, you've got you've got in one student's file and you have so many different departments. So if we were like going electronic someday, it has to be kind of.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we haven't arrived operated with that. The printing costs are the bulk of the printing costs, and all of the schools are not actually copying at this point, papers

[R8875-536] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'I'm going to ask Pat  | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: Absolutely.
TEXT> Just want to stress we had we've had a number of situations this year because  there isn't a phone in the classroom. So you've got paging ability where Bev can page into the the room but not vice versa. In our alt program,  there's one phone, but most of the time the teacher up there relies on using her cell phone to communicate with administration. We've had a couple of situations where you've got, especially in this building, we've got a lot of working parts and sharp objects and different things where student has had a medical situation. The teacher didn't have the ability to phone to someone, so that either had to send another student out to get to Bev, who then had to. So you're talking kind of this, you know, metaphor of a game of telephone, which is putting added time, not to mention Bev than having unless she goes and broadcasts the message via intercom. So the whole student population in that class is hearing the message, which is a privacy issue. She can't just, you know, right to the phone, to the teacher, say what has to be happening. She has to then walk all the way to Morty's class or to Mr. Pope's class to deliver a message which is taking her away from the front office, taking her away from monitoring the front door.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So it's it's an antiquated system here, which does then relate into a security issue around medical issues and privacy issues.

[R8875-594] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Chris Irish: that to heart and start figuring that out. And as we restructure, I don't know the answer. I just don't know the answer. But I do think that is a valid point that was made tonight that I hadn't really thought much about. But when.
TEXT> Chris let me just if I may, look on the front page of the eagle times below the fold and it talks about stabilization money and, and I'm quoted to saying that every child in New Hampshire is entitled to a free to education. But in truth, that's not correct. It doesn't happen. And sadly enough, the the equity regarding funding different communities makes a difference. So we yes we do we. The good news is we are our structuring is strategic, not just a random cut, cut cut. But it is challenging. It's very challenging. The good news is the board supported the increase in compensation for our teachers deserving employees. The bad. News is that has tipped the scale a bit with the tax rate. So now we've made some adjustments.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think the trick is to find and again, I don't have any answer. I just I think the trick is in any school district in this day and age,

[R8875-599] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [35-54]; chair: 'everyt | 2017-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: It would be.
TEXT> You. Saw almost 30 classes at Stevens High School, ten or fewer students. Now, some of them you can justify, others. I had trouble justifying. And you know, it's not anyone's fault other than we need to have that kind of data and that to make some difficult decisions. And unfortunately, those difficult decisions deal with personnel. But how much longer can we sustain with declining enrollment and declining revenue stain the personnel?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I think if we have that, if we're looking at that next year, I think that that'll help us, you know, in the fall, you know, after it settles

[R8884-72] Gauthier | State Representative, Claremont delegation (surname only on record, 'R | 2017-01-24
PREV> Chris Irish: happen. I appreciate the effort so far, but we've got both sides of the aisle sitting here and just that eastern part of the state down there. There's a lot more of them than there are. So you're going to have to work really hard.
TEXT> Yeah.  Frank blue when he, when he, when  fires. I know for governor the vote for governor here in New Hampshire, I mean, in Claremont here is I believe he got the most votes of anybody here, Frank blue. And what he wants to do is, is because he,  he had 7 or 8 of his kids were homeschooled. Is that he wants to he wants to make the school systems and education department here more efficient and to, to supply I guess more money I guess is what I'm, it's less what I've been hearing.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Good luck.

[R8884-93] Bruce Temple | Claremont City Councilor | 2017-01-24
PREV> Keith Raymond: Yeah.
TEXT> So I, I don't. Want to move on here. I'm not sure if anybody happened to hear the address today from the governor of Vermont. I realize we're not Vermont, but there was a fairly common theme where he was very specific today and asked all communities in Vermont to all school boards in Vermont to to freeze their budgets. And he pointed out the declining enrollments, which they're really hurting,  and the cost to educate students has outstripped the ability of the property taxpayer to pay the bill. Now, I'm not sure.  You know where the governor is on this? I asked that question, but I did hear that this afternoon on public radio. It was very, very clear on his direction just across the river. So there's a common thread about what's going on with the ability to pay for for education. And I'm a little worried about what the governor's position is. I certainly appreciate the all day kindergarten. But, you know, there's other things in there that I think he has interests in. And, you know, one is the charter school concepts. And it may be a bigger impact. There may be some trade offs in legislation of getting a signature for something else that we don't know about. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Good.

[R8884-115] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Chris Irish: Absolutely.
TEXT> Okay. So why don't the for the the chair myself. You,  Mr. Superintendent Goodwin and the new city manager worked with the delegation to make that happen, and then we'll keep everybody abreast. However, how about that? Okay. And I think those are the action steps that we have agreed on. Okay. That concludes that portion of the agenda. Now we'll move on to lead poisoning.  This is a follow up to the educational piece that we received from Gail, who is from Healthy Homes  at the state level. And,  I just can't get over how much has been done in the short time that since we had that. But I've got great news. So since our last meeting  and where we received that presentation, if you recall, we had various stakeholders in the room to include Peter Wright from Valley Regional Hospital. After that presentation, Gail made arrangements with the hospital to do a luncheon learn. And she did that in December.  And she talked to the pediatricians about the importance of screening children ages 1 to 2. And if you recall, in the data and the presentation, we were not anywhere near reaching those goals. We were in the 57% tile for one year olds and 29%, I believe, something like that in the two year olds.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So the the state goal is 100% screening of children 0 to 6. And we as a community decided because of the the health implications and what is costing us

[R8884-134] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, the the the budget process is coming to to closure soon, which makes me happy. But we'll fill that void very quickly with working on this policy, among other policies. This is a top priority.
TEXT> Excellent. Thank you. So I did speak to Gail this afternoon, and I wanted to find out if there was any legislative update, because she did reference to me in the past that there would be a bill coming down the pike that would put more teeth into the state's recommendation with the with regard to not only lead screening, but, how to prevent lead poisoning to begin in the first place, because, as you recall, it's it's permanent and irreversible. So not only do we want to find, you know, what children have been exposed to lead, but we want want to prevent the,  poisoning of children in the future. So they are still as a 4:00 yesterday afternoon, they were still,  negotiating the language of that. But it's expected to go before the Health and Human Services committees  of the two  of the Senate and the House. And if it is passed, then,  the Council, of course, will be writing policy that reflects the state what will then become state law. However,  I think it's very important in the situation like this that we start getting community support for this before, before and not wait until it becomes state law and then have to react to it.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And therefore there's a lot of educational things that we can do to build that, that community support. And, if you recall, in Gail's presentation, she played a clip of

[R8884-135] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: reflects the state what will then become state law. However, I think it's very important in the situation like this that we start getting community support for this before, before and not wait until it becomes state law and then have to react to it.
TEXT> And therefore there's a lot of educational things that we can do to build that, that community support. And, if you recall, in Gail's presentation, she  played a clip of a movie that was going to be coming out soon about the whole issue of lead poisoning. And so she is working on trying to get that movie here. We may need a sponsor to help fund that, but the idea would be,  to maybe play it at the opera house or the high school auditorium. I don't know, but you'd want to have as much seating as possible, because the idea would be not only to educate Claremont as a community, but the surrounding communities  in the county. Because this is a statewide issue. It's not just focused on Claremont. So that's one thing that  she's working on is an initiative. The other thing which I thought was quite exciting, was they have been trying to get an initiative off the ground as far as training tech students on  being our qualify, which means renovate, repair and paint. It's how to,
NEXT> Keith Raymond: Test.

[R8884-145] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Keith Raymond: Quick question.
TEXT> So,  so if I don't just sort of rhetorical because I'm not sure anybody here knows the answer, but let's say lead is discovered in a, in a student, I would assume there might be some follow up then, particularly if they're younger siblings in the house to find the source of the lead. Right. So I'm wondering about implications to,  local industry where there might be ambient lead,  in a nearby town, for example. So I just wonder what the ramifications if they thought about pushback. I think from industry, if there is lead involved in their production, coming home on workers clothing, for example, might be something to be thinking about.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I'm sure that discussion has come up when they've been grappling with the language that they want to use in this bill, because they're going to have to deal with

[R8884-146] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: lead, in a nearby town, for example. So I just wonder what the ramifications if they thought about pushback. I think from industry, if there is lead involved in their production, coming home on workers clothing, for example, might be something to be thinking about.
TEXT> I'm sure that discussion has come up when they've been  grappling with the language that they want to use in this bill, because they're going to have to deal with if if there is an exposure, how are you going to stop it in the future? Future? But with regard to what are the next action steps when a child is poisoned by lead, there is a process that's followed. Currently in law, if the blood level is 1010 ML and I forget what that stands for,  if that level. So if it goes at that level or above, it starts a whole protocol to abate the situation because the child is, you know, got heavy amounts of lead in their blood. If it's below that, then it's really an education process and trying to find the source. And what can we do to abate it. But it's not ordered from the state level.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Along all those lines. Is is lead poisoning the test results? Is that a mandatory reporting thing yet like all the other things that.

[R8884-151] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: As soon as they test, it's sent off to the state.
TEXT> But I mean, if the child is fine, is found to have two high level of lead. That's it's automatically it's.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Yeah. Because all of the screenings are sent to the state. If it if it's too high, it flips the protocol. It starts and and the state reacts, they send

[R8884-164] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (absent at roll call, arrived later) | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: So yeah, I think even that that.
TEXT> Education piece trying to get people to see this video in self is is critical because it's not. I know that maybe, maybe the greater impact might be in, you know, multi multi-unit rentals. But I just know I just know that there's a lot of people around here, you know, gluing myself, they'll do kind of reconstruction projects and using old old would probably old paints and it and like that I think the presentation showed that this can this the this is happening to you know it's a we used to think of this as kind of, you know, being kind of in a, in very impoverished areas or saying or, you know, children that were getting adopted from Russia and that's not the case. That and it can happen to anybody. And we have people a lot of people doing these DDIY construction projects. And it really makes you think twice about what, what you're doing. I mean, because I think we  are now understanding where the source of the, the lead poisoning is coming from.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Which is to Councilor Raymond's point that it's all about education. You just don't know. You don't know. And and the reason why is becoming more critical with time is

[R8884-173] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes brief interjections from several members | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Okay.
TEXT> It seems like testing kids is a great idea, but it's too late. Shouldn't we have some sort of inspections on rental properties? They do this in Minnesota while we were there. They come and check and I'm just proposing something as an idea, but that seems like we're starting at the base of the problem.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Well, it's an excellent point. At that last meeting, I guess it was November that we had. I don't remember the date, but we did have people from the city's

[R8884-176] Keith Raymond | Claremont City Councilor (addressed as 'Councilor Raymond' and 'Keith' | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: target as far as providing this training to, and then with her help and the committee's effort to organize all of this, then I think we would have a full force campaign in action that would lead us up to having these policies in place.
TEXT> The other thing I make a point of the EPA right now doesn't require anybody to do anything with a property unless you're going to do some maintenance or repair to that property, and it has to be a certain percentage of the repair to the property to  and the other requirements to that they have the criteria that they have to meet. When I go out to do a window estimate, I test if that has led, I have a handout to give to the homeowner. If they have a child that's under the age of six, or if the female of the house is pregnant, or if it has a daycare  attached to it. Those are the only criteria, basically, that you have to follow all the rules and regulations for the EPA for the rules. So those are basically, I think, have to be a change a little bit to where or we have to educate our landlords to do the right thing and change. Now, even though you're not doing,  major renovations. But if you're going to rent to children that are under that age, we need to bring that property up to code for that. But that's not required right now. So that's the problem.
NEXT> Chris Irish: If you find that you find lead landlords not going to do anything about it. I've heard this for a story a thousand times. Are you required to report that

[R8884-225] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont | 2017-01-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: grappling with, increasing personnel costs. I believe I said that our health care, our health insurance costs went up 23.1%. So there's a lot that the council has to consider as well. But we are committed, I believe, to the reality that the tax base.
TEXT> Can't sustain any more increases.  One of the topics that the council will be  discussing tomorrow night has to do with the,  elderly tax exemptions, which haven't changed, 1999. And that sparked a discussion at our last, I believe, the last council meeting, and we settled on some changes to the income  limits. But and then I heard back from a constituent, I'll be sharing this again with the council tomorrow night. And then a constituent gave me some data with regard to her property. And she's retired and her husband's retired, and and,  when she gave me the data, I really had a hard time believing it. I said, this can't be right. So I went to the assessing office, and,  she wasn't far off. But the the bottom line is, in 14 years, her taxes increased by 61%. That's. And she's not alone. So I checked another property with that property owners permission and their taxes had gone up in the same amount of time, 63%. Also an elderly person. And then I checked another property that had, you know,  working couple children in the home and their taxes went up 57%. So it's not an isolated case. And,  there's a lot of work to be done.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And I know the council is well aware of the needs in the community as far as infrastructure needs. And I know that the school board is well aware of

[R8884-268] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (absent at roll call, arrived later) | 2017-01-24
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah.
TEXT> Go for it. Okay. So and one of the things that we  are, I believe we either finalized or were about to was the, we created some new policies for in which for the school school district or the school communities, faculty, students, different organizations within the school district to partner with outside organizations, businesses and and non-profits, things like that, in order to generate some of their own revenue. One of the things that we've talked about, for example, would be the Athletics. There would be a lot of opportunities there.  One of the ideas we had would be would be something we definitely would need to figure out with, with the departments, parks, rec, which would be, if they wanted to get sponsorship, getting, be able to get on either billboards or kind of signs that would be able to be put up at on fields, and which is difficult because we don't own the we don't own the fields. Like, you know, it was it over with Newport. They have but they I believe they do that with since because they have the shared their football fields shared with the parks with the park system and you know, so  they'll they'll get signed, they'll get business signs or put up on the screen.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: That's an excellent opportunity for the superintendent to work with the incoming city manager on. And if there are any policies that have to be put in place to do

[R8899-10] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: 8080 M average daily membership. So we're talking about attendance, talking about students in school.
TEXT> Right. And we're talking about free and reduced. We're talking about sped. We're talking about this language learners. So it's really important that we report all these correctly and get as many people who are eligible for free and reduced, signed up for free and reduced even if they don't eat lunch, because again, it costs us $1,700. If a student is eligible and they don't sign up, we don't get that money. Any questions on that?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yes. So. First of all, I'm, I'm commend the job that you did because I think it was more than I think it.

[R8899-19] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Hopefully we can we can fix the stabilization grant next year and get a couple hundred thousand dollars more back from that, you know, because that certainly would help out.
TEXT> I think. I did get a few,  comments on my it's not my spreadsheet comment from last meeting I found entertaining.  So as Mike said, it was all me. It's really a collaborative effort to the best of our abilities, but we have gone through all 1200 lines multiple times.  Is every supply line untouched? No, we've had to we've had to reduce supply lines in a variety of areas. We've had to reduce the purchase of new equipment. Sometimes the the, you know, repair equipment, instructional aids, different things of that nature, some building project things, maintenance related equipment, but did our best to minimize the impact on,  children and to minimize the impact on staff as much as possible. So am I I'm not as concerned, Patrick, about this budget proposal and the  the impact teachers might see when they're looking to purchase things for the classrooms and such as I am  on where we could potentially sit next year at this time. And, you know, as Doctor Goodman mentioned, when you have a budget that is 80% personnel and you're getting, pressure, for lack of a better descriptor from a variety of angles to make sure that there's no impact on the tax rate.  That gets really challenging. And I  and I don't think that we can keep programs intact,  next year if we don't look more comprehensively at the budget.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So it's one thing to have, you know, a science teacher, but if the science teacher has zero supplies to carry out their curriculum, then there's a compromise there. So

[R8899-67] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Warren, after the fact, because we had cut so much technology out, we wanted the people to have an opportunity to say whether or not they wanted to continue with the technology plan as it was, because that's going to delay some replacement of equipment.
TEXT> Mainly the technology warrant is staff and students, staff and student computers at two of the elementary schools.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I missed that. I just proposed that 38798 maybe go back into the operating budget. Did you add the business teacher back in? So then it'd be flat this year?

[R8899-97] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Michelle Pierce: That's that's.
TEXT> Two is the number for staff and student computing and two locations. But there is a replacement cycle that's been followed. And so,  currently with the staff that we have and the devices that are in place, it's a little bit of a gamble pushing it out a year, but you can push it out a year. And I think. That I don't know if my technology  colleagues will appreciate this, but I would perhaps support reinstating some other areas before that particular technology request. Because because I think if you look at it holistically, we'll be better off to push that technology request out one year and keep some of our instructional supplies and equipment, in place, because there are some areas where if we have a piece of equipment break this year, there's not necessarily a fun designated to fix that. So it's a it's kind of which, which gamble do you want to take?
NEXT> Chris Irish: One of the things we talked a lot about Saturday and we kind of hit the same wall we're about to hit. Now. We're trying to figure out what specifically

[R8899-205] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: Ideas, if we start earlier, it that makes a huge difference. And I'm.
TEXT> Just going to start. I would like to back the whole process up and get into it during October.  But you know, just just understand something fixed cost increases have been much more than $15,000 this fiscal year. The budget is $75,000 more than the previous year. That's because the board was wonderful in supporting professional development and curriculum for staff. And now the 60 grand the budget went up $15,000. Mark my words, the fixed cost increases were much more than that. How did we do this magic? We have been continuously modifying and reducing the budget here and there, and they're pairing it back. So the concern is we've got to a point where the orange is dry and we're squeezing it and nothing's coming out. And that's why personnel was a part of the mix, not because we don't value, but it was done strategically. When you got a 1.0 teacher who does not have access to students, where the teacher can teach a subject 1.0, you need to reduce that position, or you're basically paying for a full time teacher who's not full time as measured by access to children.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's what that process was about. However, I respect what the board had requested. And and but I that's why I started off this process could not repeat itself every

[R8899-299] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: Do.
TEXT> You do art for some kids and then you do some supports for other kids. So what is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Your day like?

[R8899-305] Jenny Desert | Art teacher, Bluff Elementary School, public commenter (surname as hea | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And then I have a reading intervention with kindergarten for a half hour. And then I do math intervention with the older students for a half hour.  And then I teach, three regular  ed art classes.  And then  on other days there, my technology days where I will teach technology for four different classes. And in that I'm also teaching the kindergarten reading intervention and the math intervention for fifth graders. We have recess duty every day, all the specials, so that we were out there integrating the structured recess.  We're all hands on deck.  It's not. It used to be when I first started teaching, you would go in and you would teach your art lessons, and then that was it. If there was extra time in the schedule, you could hang up artwork. You could work with students to do other things. You could have them in at lunch because paras or someone else cover those recesses. But that's it's not like that anymore. When you're when you're a teacher, it doesn't matter what your title is, whether you're a classroom teacher or specialist teacher, you're all hands on deck. And I feel at bluff, we have the ability to do that.
NEXT> Jenny Desert: We're a smaller school in the sense that our numbers are a little less, but we're we're tight. We don't have as many paras as we need. We don't have

[R8899-334] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: Something.
TEXT> And I'm glad to hear that we've restored those. But so one of the things I noticed, I think talking to I've been talking to, to parent between parents, even teachers, some of the people that are here tonight, Is. And honestly, even when listening to some of our, you know, administrators and I think, you know, we're talking about what it seems to really upset people. It's it's it always seems to be,  kind of more than dollars a sense. It's when we talk about these things like art, music, p these things that I think people worry that we kids are losing, that love  for learning that that. And I think that that's something that we cannot lose. The attitude a child has towards learning probably does is more important, has will have more influence on their success and growth than anything else we can possibly do. And it's, you know, I wish I wish that people could, could see how we  are when we  are in our strategic planning committee and we're sitting, talking about like what we would like education to look like. And I think when we really talk about what energizes us and makes us passionate about education and thinking about what makes kids passionate about education, it's all those things. It's and I think those are things that we wish we could be doing. And the thing is, we sometimes we get frustrated. We feel like we aren't doing it enough.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So it's just something that I think, especially as we're looking at this, I think that we need to start taking risks and looking at, you know, where we are.

[R8899-335] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Patrick Adrian: education and thinking about what makes kids passionate about education, it's all those things. It's and I think those are things that we wish we could be doing. And the thing is, we sometimes we get frustrated. We feel like we aren't doing it enough.
TEXT> So it's just something that I think, especially as we're looking at this, I think that we need to start taking risks and looking at, you know, where we are. I think sometimes going in a direction where we're losing focus on, I think, the whole child. And honestly, I know we're not the only district, but every time I hear the words art and music and P and put it called specials, it makes my heart cry. I wish we'd get rid of that word. I think just I don't know where it came from. Just  want to go on the record with that one.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have.

[R8899-339] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-01-24
PREV> Unidentified: Talk.
TEXT> About the three A's, the academics, the arts, the athletics,  the whole child. Mrs. D, I've watched her for several years. She's stellar. Here's the issue. The issue is declining enrollment and declining funding. And our teacher, a teacher, their objective is arts is physical education. But when we hire a person to do that job, and they do it beautifully, but we don't have enough students for the person to do it full time. Do we have the financial backing to have a wonderful art teacher or a wonderful music teacher now become another type of teacher? It's wonderful, but it's very expensive. It's not about the professionals. So we're not reducing the art, but we're we are paying a full time teacher who doesn't have access to children to be that full time content teacher. That's what it was about. I'm not trying to defend it, and I understand the passion,  but it's about lack of funding. And you heard me say the budget increased 15,000 this year, $15,000 fixed costs, salaries much more than that. How did we do it, Patrick? By internally reducing and we've been doing that year after year. We've got a point where we're getting dry and I think really are dry. Now with this budget for fiscal year 18. That's why I said don't think this is the way of fixing it year after year, because it's not because it's dry.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. And thank you. And I, I didn't mean to make that as a I didn't even mean to say that it's a budget Terry issue. Like I said, we

[R8899-340] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-01-24
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: year. We've got a point where we're getting dry and I think really are dry. Now with this budget for fiscal year 18. That's why I said don't think this is the way of fixing it year after year, because it's not because it's dry.
TEXT> Yeah. And thank you. And I, I didn't mean to make that as a I didn't even mean to say that it's a budget Terry issue. Like I said, we have to have we are going to have to make difficult choices this year, next year. I just meant just generally speaking, I think going forward, I think it's just sometimes important for us to kind of step back and, and remember that education. It it's, you know, it seems like we start turning it so much into we get caught up into, thinking about it as this, you know, we're training kids towards, you know, job, the job market. And we're trying to get data and we're trying to get to certain numbers. And that's and that that's a lot of that's kind of coming from other larger influences. But I think just, you know, that's why I love about the about our kind of, you know, our five year planning committee is that we're looking at what we can do as a district to kind of, you know, in terms of a in revolutionizing education, what we can do. And I think those are the kind of things. Thank you. That's that's all I just wanted to say.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: All right.

[R8948-5] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes.
TEXT> And and secondly, I'd like to add in and there's a packet in front of you  with an email from Doug Beaupre. And it deals with the 25th Annual Student Leadership Conference as backup information. This is occurring March 16th and 17th. So I would like to have the board act on that. That could be perhaps Roman numeral seven C to approve this.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay. Anything else? Okay, good. I'll take a motion to accept that. Thank you. Second. Second. Any other discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Thank you. And that'll be our

[R8948-7] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: be our work for tonight. We have our minutes from our last meeting, February 1st. Anyone have any changes for that? Seeing none. I'll take a motion to approve the minutes. I'll second. Okay. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? With that representative report. Good evening.
TEXT> Good evening. So we only have a report from the high school this time. February is teen dating violence awareness month. This year, Stevens High School is participating in a week long awareness campaign called Granite State Respect Week that aims to educate students on the signs of teen dating violence and provide them with the tools to help themselves or friends. There will be activities and challenges throughout the week, with plenty of chances to earn Respect Week prizes. For example, students will engage in trivia, conversation, and the creation of a healthy relationships wall and sticky notes that displays students ideas about healthy relationships. Respect week will be expanded through the remainder of the school year in an effort to create large scale visual representation of Cardinals commitment to respect and healthy relationships. So I'm going to pass this around some more information about it.  Also, for,  parents who have a student heading off to college as a freshman for the fall, there is an understanding Financial aid award packages and financing options meeting on Tuesday, March 21st at 530. This presentation is for anyone with that student. We will discuss the components of Financial Aid award package, including federal student loans and grants and scholarships.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Additional funding and financing options will be discussed with a review of what payment may mean to your family. All attendees will receive funding option handouts. There is also a

[R8948-8] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2017-03-01
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: fall, there is an understanding Financial aid award packages and financing options meeting on Tuesday, March 21st at 530. This presentation is for anyone with that student. We will discuss the components of Financial Aid award package, including federal student loans and grants and scholarships.
TEXT> Additional funding and financing options will be discussed with a review of what payment may mean to your family.  All attendees will receive funding option handouts. There is also a mandatory S.A.T. prep going on for six weeks, with live webinar sessions each Thursday for 70 minutes during second block, which all juniors must attend in order to prepare for the April 5th. S.A.T. this Saturday is required by the State Assessment test that is mandatory for all juniors in high school to take the Prep is advertised, increased average score by 200 points, and in addition, is full on  online resources for students to access and study from home as well. The nature of these sessions covers reading, writing and mathematics, so even those prepping for the Saturday. It also helps them with their academics overall for instruction, for senior play, which we hope you all can make it. It will be Thursday the 16th, Friday the 17th, Saturday and Sunday the 19th. For the 16th, 17th and 18th is 5:00 shows. And then for the 19th it's a matinee, which is the 2:00. So we hope you all will attend. It's $5 and it supports the senior class and then also the theater department. So thank you. And that's all I have.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: What's the play.

[R8948-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: in some cases, that lack of information can even result in anger or frustration. And it really isn't their fault because they're not informed and they're not informed, perhaps because we are not informing them as well as we could on a regular, consistent basis.
TEXT> Another interesting barrier student sense of disempowerment. I've talked to Mary Ann Lovett before. Mary Ann has expressed interest in being having more of a voice at the table. But what's interesting is that a lack of voice, a lack of student voice has been shown to,  and a lack of knowledge as to what the dynamics are in a school district has also been a detriment to school improvement. Students voice is very important. They know that they're not school board members. They know they can't vote. But their voice and learning from them and having them be aware of the dynamics to be more informed is an asset for all of us. Of course, the continued inequities built into the state school funding formula.  That's something that we can't fix in house, but we definitely can  advocate. And for the legislature to be more proactive.  But it appears that with the state funding, unless there are some major changes in how business is done,  we're going to have to solve it ourselves and we're going to have to solve it ourselves, not by having school board and city council and other organizations working separately, but rather working very closely together because of the limited resources.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I'm pleased that Mayor Charlene Leavitt and the City Council and the school board, have had been meeting. I believe there's going to be a meeting of tentatively scheduled

[R8948-21] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: rather going to to the faculty, to the community, to our students. So I'm very interested going forward. And after experiencing this past budget process, I'm very interested. And I've talked to the building principal two weeks ago, and we're going to continue this discussion.
TEXT> How can we do things differently to improve our ability to communicate? How can we do things differently, not to fix the world, but to be sure everyone understands what the dynamics are because not everyone is able to attend or watch a school board meeting on a regular basis. School board members live it and breathe it.  But I think it's important that we reach out to to community members because as well as involve the students and the faculty,  because that type of information, I think can be at asset for all of us. And we're not trying to indoctrinate them, we're just trying to be informative. So I look forward to that discussion, especially when we start talking. In the middle of this month when the new board,  is, is elected and begins their term.  We talk about starting the budget process much sooner in a more calculated and strategic manner,  perhaps even starting it before, the spring.
NEXT> Unidentified: That'd be amazing.

[R8948-27] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: that's dealing with that communications issue. And, you know, it doesn't make it okay. But it's it's good to know that other people are experiencing what we are. And hopefully we can we can do something to to fix that. I think you have some.
TEXT> Good I can't say how thankful I am hearing that from a student perspective, because  oftentimes students feel helpless because they feel like they aren't given the opportunity to create change.  For instance,  I'm not on roll call because it doesn't matter if I'm here for you all to run a meeting,  I'm not in this packet, even though I've been here longer than some people on this board, and I'm not doing that as a complaint. I'm just pointing out  that anyone here can make a vote with majority, and the impact falls on us as students, and we don't even get a say in the vote. So when you educate the students and give them the ability to make a change and give them a say at the table, I think you'll see a change that's positive for not only the school district, but for Claremont, because once you take away that feeling of not being able to change anything and you empower students and people, great things happen. So thank you so much for pointing that out, and I can't wait to see that happen in the future.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So, more planning ahead.

[R8948-31] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: More action to look forward to.
TEXT> Was going to bring it up on the future agenda items, but I honestly think it's more pressing than that. There's two notes, one to to Marion's point. I've thought about this a lot. And since we've had student reps, you know, it's gotten better and better the last couple that will be here and participating. And I'd love to see if there is a way we could give them voting power. To a certain degree. She makes a valid point. I honestly didn't realize she wasn't in there, but I think having a student board rep was a little more than them just coming in, you know, giving us what's going on. I'd love to give them a little more power and ownership of it. But to that point of the communication point, I've talked about this for years and where we're unique in New Hampshire, in Claremont, with the communication issue is we have four separate governments, and most people don't even realize that. And that's always been an issue. And what I would like to see us do, I think the time is right, is to develop a mandatory curriculum that would give us civics credit. That literally is a local civics course on Claremont Politics, for lack of a better description, but covers state, city, school board, council, county and all the pieces that go with it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: You know, we can start with the kids in the high school to educate them and maybe turn that into some kind of an adult Ed. But if we start

[R8948-40] Nancy Lewis | Social studies teacher and Youth and Government advisor, Stevens High  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Yes. Nancy Lewis Stephens High School, social studies teacher and youth and government advisor is here this evening. In your packet, there's a memo dated January 12th, 2017. And Nancy Lewis will will speak to that. Welcome, Nancy.
TEXT> Hello, Brian. I'm also a teacher and student. At the Centennial Educator.  With. Saint-Gaudens, the National Park Service and the Wellborn Foundation.  I was hired by them.  It's a grant that was directed toward Claremont. I was hired to buy them to help develop a community connection, to  engage in service based learning for students at Stevens High School. So I was chomping on Mrs. Barry's arm while you were speaking, following decorum and not saying.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Let's do this.

[R8948-42] Nancy Lewis | Social studies teacher and Youth and Government advisor, Stevens High  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Let's do this.
TEXT> I realize that this is not what I'm on the docket for, but may I just say one more thing, please? Please. And that is that the whole idea of the whole notion of project based and place based learning, with that service learning component, means that we could start today to get communication better. We don't necessarily have to wait to hire someone. I'm not suggesting that we shouldn't think about that in the future, but if we could get students actively engaged in in taking action, instead of simply sending out information to the public, to being there as the presence in the public so that people understand how very important education is in this community, I think we could make changes immediately. It's about in franchising the the, the student body. And we have a great student body. Anyway, I'll get off my well, I won't get off of my pulpit. I'll continue. So every year I come and and unless I forget and somebody has to fill in for me, I come and ask for, you to consider letting students from Stevens High School represent our school and district because we're part of a delegation of Newport Sun. And.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: Yeah, that's the that's the what are they there now? I didn't go to the to the caucus. Okay. Anyway, they for an overnight in in Concord, New Hampshire, every

[R8948-43] Nancy Lewis | Social studies teacher and Youth and Government advisor, Stevens High  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Nancy Lewis: year I come and and unless I forget and somebody has to fill in for me, I come and ask for, you to consider letting students from Stevens High School represent our school and district because we're part of a delegation of Newport Sun. And.
TEXT> Yeah, that's the that's the what are they there now? I didn't go to the to the caucus. Okay. Anyway, they  for an overnight in  in Concord, New Hampshire, every year we go students  are automatically representatives in the in the general court. Some students decide to run for office higher office. That would be the Senate. We've had governors from the from Claremont. We've had executive council members from Claremont. We've had many senators. Chairman's Marion is a co-chair. What's the committee? You're co-chair.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: Resource committee.

[R8948-48] Nancy Lewis | Social studies teacher and Youth and Government advisor, Stevens High  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Don't you think there will be bills on that this year? I hope so, I'm sure there will. And truly what happens is the bills get published in a bill book before the caucus, before the legislature starts. So the students see their stuff published and legislatures really do read them because the ideas are very innovative, sometimes a little wacky. But, you know, I just wanted very quickly to tell you some of the the bills written by our delegation. So we have one requiring health inspections for all public restrooms and portable toilets in all businesses located in New Hampshire. Limiting the use of animals for testing cosmetics, insourcing eco friendly corporations. That's Marion's,  mandatory labeling of all consumable, genetically modified, or genetically engineered products  passing an opioid prescription. Photo identification. This is written by Stevens High School students. And by and large, I added their bills before sending them out, but it's more like formatting. I'm not really doing a lot of editing at all.  Lastly, making sugary drinks a controlled substance,  a ban on single use carry out bags and  and others. Right. Are they great? That's amazing. Any questions?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Is there a cost associated?

[R8948-50] Nancy Lewis | Social studies teacher and Youth and Government advisor, Stevens High  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Is there a cost associated?
TEXT> There is a cost. It's actually a well it's a very reasonable program. But there's there there's a training session that happens in a couple of weeks. There's all day Saturday. Excuse me. All day Friday. All day Saturday. There there was once a time when we had to come up with the money for the busses, but I. I don't understand the funding, but I just know that somehow Miss Berry has  created the money to make it happen. Students pay $200 for the program, and we have gotten we've done some fundraising and somehow we always make it work.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Good.

[R8948-57] Nancy Lewis | Social studies teacher and Youth and Government advisor, Stevens High  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Chris Irish: written and I'm sure they could write, I think some of our current reps could probably take a few pointers from, be quite honest, you know, because but it is it's a it's really cool to watch them experience it firsthand, to learn from it.
TEXT> Just like you have a student representative on your on your board so that you can hear what students are thinking. That's why the legislature really does pay attention and they should.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Very.

[R8948-59] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Very.
TEXT> Please pass this. Please say yes. It's really fun. Not only do you get to learn about other people's ideas from differing schools, which creates a  vast like mind. Of. Your opinion, it opens up your thinking. Also, we just talked about communication. It's a great way to connect students with their government to understand more. I didn't even know how it works and my mom was a state rep. I mean, it really opens your eyes to a whole new world of what you can do in politics. And also, this is so important because I'm actually going to speak with  a state rep about my bill and see if it could be brought to the House. So these bills, like, yes, students are writing them, but these could be actual action items. So it is definitely the best possible.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Alex.

[R8948-74] Nancy Lewis | Social studies teacher and Youth and Government advisor, Stevens High  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Chris Irish: interact, to be awesome. Can we go down there and see them in action? Actually, I should have asked you what you just done to me. Do we have the. Could we go down and watch them in action while it's happening in the gallery?
TEXT> It's so much fun.  You go up to the the  gallery and by the way. When they're in the. General Court, by that point. Their bills have. Passed through committee. So they've already. Been vetted. They've been. Cleaned up, they've been  amended or they've been killed. And it becomes their very  I would say it really becomes  competitive because. Kids really love their bills to pass. And we are not allowed down  on. The floor of the General Court.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Do we need to do anything special to come watch, or just get there and get a galaxy?

[R8948-80] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Have you. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I guess in my haste to jump around and get to that, I skipped citizens comments. So we'll go back to that. I apologize. So we'll open the floor to citizens comments and seeing none, we'll close citizens comments and move on to Pat Barry. Got the student leadership conference.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Our athletic director with another overnight request. This is not a first time event. I believe is the third year at least that we've been doing this. And so Doug

[R8948-81] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: to jump around and get to that, I skipped citizens comments. So we'll go back to that. I apologize. So we'll open the floor to citizens comments and seeing none, we'll close citizens comments and move on to Pat Barry. Got the student leadership conference.
TEXT> Our athletic director with another overnight request. This is not a first time event. I believe is the third year at least that we've been doing this.  And so Doug shared this information with me. The NH  and the NH. I AA will hold their 25th Annual Student Leadership Conference on March 16th and 17th at the Conference Center Courtyard Marriott in Concord, New Hampshire. The sessions will include team dynamics, sticking to your moral compass, leadership training, overcoming obstacles and decision making. And for as Stevens students, athletes, one coach and the athletic director will attend and they will participate in all the activities and meetings during this two day conference. And I'll kind of do it backwards, but here's the brochure in case any of you didn't have a chance to see it, which kind of gives you a sense of the different sessions and what it looks like. And so we are asking for your approval and blessing on that overnight excursion as well.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any questions? Yep.

[R8948-98] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: We'll go to discussion items. The midyear I already report.
TEXT> Corey LeClair and our building leaders are going to be making a presentation as as presented involving students measured growth in reading and mathematics. If you recall, the last presentation was on writing. And so the building leaders at for a long day being here this evening. And Corey is going to start the PowerPoint and we'll have a candid discussion.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I didn't bring my clicker with me. So I'm going to kind of try to move back and forth like Spider-Man. Many are already report we switched to I

[R8948-99] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: involving students measured growth in reading and mathematics. If you recall, the last presentation was on writing. And so the building leaders at for a long day being here this evening. And Corey is going to start the PowerPoint and we'll have a candid discussion.
TEXT> So I didn't bring my clicker with me. So I'm going to kind of try to move back and forth like Spider-Man. Many are already report we switched to I already this year from a.  So some folks probably remember the what we call the map test was measured of measures of academic progress. And now we are using a new assessment this year called I ready. It's still computer adaptive, which means that if a student gets an answer correct, they get a harder question. If they get the answer wrong, they get a slightly easier question, and the computer tries to figure out the point at which students get roughly half the questions correct and half of them wrong,  and that helps to identify that, point in time, point in their understanding where they are most likely to be able to to move with their learning. So I wanted to show you where our data is at the midyear point, talk about that, and then invite the principals to to come up and talk about how they are responding in their individual buildings to this data, because data is great, but if we're not doing anything with it, then it's just another, thing to collect dust, I guess, for lack of a better description.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So our goals have really shifted to not focus primarily on just where students arrive at the end, but how much have they grown along the way? So our goals

[R8948-115] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. So go ahead.
TEXT> What's happening where we can have a large amount of growth or students  more on target in the elementary schools, but it's not happening at the higher grades. Why is that?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's a great question. I think that I'm going to postpone that question for now. Because I would like you to hear how different schools are responding to the data

[R8948-132] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: That's that's.
TEXT> The slide I went quickly by. So this is saying that in first grade the mid-year growth target for math is 15 points gained.  So  and I'm going to totally butcher this. So I'm not even going to look over them when they're going to correct me later. So say a student gets a score of 450  on the fall assessment in first grade, the target would be for them to have a gain of 30 points to get from 450 to 480 by the end of the year. Okay. That would be expected or reasonable growth for them. So by the mid year, if they're supposed to get to 480 by the end of the year, by the mid year, they need to get to 465. And that's what these targets are indicating. So it's a gain of 15 points for the mid-year. And you can see that as the grade levels get higher  less growth is expected for the same time period.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I'm not sure if. I don't know if anyone could answer this. Yep. The one question comes up. So it sounds like that we have like a, like a. A

[R8948-133] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: mid year, they need to get to 465. And that's what these targets are indicating. So it's a gain of 15 points for the mid-year. And you can see that as the grade levels get higher less growth is expected for the same time period.
TEXT> I'm not sure if. I don't know if anyone could answer this. Yep. The one question comes up. So it sounds like that we have like a, like a. A flat rate of growth for all the students is what I hear. At least for like, say, third grade, that they all have a certain there's kind of a flat rate of growth by a certain. By a certain number, I guess. I'm curious whether we're looking at students with different aptitudes at different kind of, you know, you know, different percentiles, whether that growth rate is going to differ is that does that make sense? Like it.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's it it.

[R8948-135] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: It's it it.
TEXT> It will. And so if you look at, you can look at the individual, I believe you can look at the individual student and see what their targets are. This is what we're saying is for first grade across the board. So for us. It gets a little bit into statistics. So if you if we want to look at each individual student, we could show you. Each individual student of the 1753 students we have and their individual growth targets. But then if you're if you're trying to do a presentation like this and show  at the grade level, when you average that all out, you're going to come up with these most likely. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Unidentified: No.

[R8948-145] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a great commitment to this. And talking individually with the building principals, it's remarkable how they are not just working with this data themselves, but are working with their faculty as well. So it's a it's a it's a school initiative, not an administrative initiative.
TEXT> So as Corey said. Earlier, it's great to have all this data, but what do you do with it so that it's not a waste of student time or staff time? In all honesty,  we found that the data we get it adds to our data collection. We always have more than one source of data. The eye ready program has given us several different ways to look at data, and breaks that data down for us, differently than other programs and assessment programs that we've had in the past. So what you see on the screen is, kind of the process that we use after we meet about every six weeks as a grade level team, each grade level team meets K to five. We spend an entire day per grade level looking at both reading and math data, and we literally go student by student. And so what you're seeing is a student, a nameless student grid, that has been created for every grade level. You see some color coding on there, you see some headings. What is the current reading performance for that child? What is the proposed reading win? So remember Win stands for what I need. You see a column that says I ready reading and then you see some notes. So we literally have a thorough discussion about each and every kiddo in every grade level.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And we start by saying, what's that current performance? What do we know about them in reading. So we know here's how they scored in I ready. We also have

[R8948-146] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: What is the proposed reading win? So remember Win stands for what I need. You see a column that says I ready reading and then you see some notes. So we literally have a thorough discussion about each and every kiddo in every grade level.
TEXT> And we start by saying, what's that current performance? What do we know about them in reading. So we know here's how they scored in I ready. We also have other reading assessments such as Rigby. We say where did their Rigby level fall? When we look at their Rigby and the details that go with it? What do we notice? Are they an accurate reader? Do they fall at comprehension? What was their concern at that level for them? Wherever they landed, we asked teachers to bring other sources of data with them as well their unit or weekly reading assessments that go with our reading program. How are kiddos doing on that? And we look at all of those pieces of data to say, based on what we know about each and every kiddo. What should their wind time be? Because when again, what I need needs to be individualized to every single student. And so literally we create plans. You'll see that we color code red, yellow and green. We for the tiered levels of instruction, a child who we analyze their data and say they're right where they need to be. We color code them green doesn't mean they don't need or they don't need more support, but it means they're working at grade level.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And we want to find ways to extend their knowledge, to enrich them, and to continue the growth that they've made to get them there. If they're color coded with

[R8948-147] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: the tiered levels of instruction, a child who we analyze their data and say they're right where they need to be. We color code them green doesn't mean they don't need or they don't need more support, but it means they're working at grade level.
TEXT> And we want to find ways to extend their knowledge, to enrich them, and to continue the growth that they've made to get them there. If they're color coded with yellow, it means there's still a little bit behind or not quite where we want them. And so again, when we're planning what their supports look like during when they're tailored to their individual needs, if you see them identified as colored red, it means that they have some significant concerns in the area of reading. And we want to ensure that our instruction for them is very targeted and very intensive. We want them working with our most certified staff in that area so that we can see them make the growth that we want them to to attain. You also see a notes column. Again, when you look at the whole child, you think about, how do I support this entire child in their learning environment? What do we have to change about the learning environment to give them better access? What do we have to change about their day so they have more time, even outside of wind, to practice what they need? And we do this for both reading and mass. When we sit through these data meetings, we create these plans. We then create the groups that kiddos are going to work in, and we assign staff to that.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: That staff then know exactly what they're going to work on with students. So it's not well, I have I have these three students. What am I going to do

[R8948-148] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: of wind, to practice what they need? And we do this for both reading and mass. When we sit through these data meetings, we create these plans. We then create the groups that kiddos are going to work in, and we assign staff to that.
TEXT> That staff then know exactly what they're going to work on with students. So it's not well, I have I have these three students. What am I going to do with them today? We've grouped them based on the supports that they need so staff can target that support to them. So we do this about every six weeks. It's it's most important for us to do after we have some of this benchmark data. So our next round of data meetings, we will sit down and do this again  with teacher sources of data such as program assessments, all of those kinds of things to see if our interventions are working. If students aren't making gains, then we look at what we're doing and say, how can we change this?  If they are making gains? We say, we want to continue with this, and is there anything else we even want to add to it to? To further that gain, we also take a look at the eye ready  time out there. We take a look to see are they getting that 45 minutes in reading and math in every week? If they are, great, if they're not, we need to think about how to ensure that that happens for them. So that's the process that we use at Disney to to look at our data and decide how to use that for students. So I'm going to turn it over to Rock, paper scissors.
NEXT> Unidentified: Shoot.

[R8948-152] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (surname as heard; resignation acce | 2017-03-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: All right.
TEXT> Thank you for the the opportunity to kind of express what bluff does. We we we also have we have data meetings after after after our I already assessments to analyze this. Look at it. Figure it out.  One challenge of schools is you get a lot of data. You got to figure out what's useful. It's not useful. Can you cut things out, make it a little simpler. And so what bluff has done is during our RTI time, we find that can be the most valuable time to to increase these I ready scores. It's one of three things that we've done at our school to to get these scores to where we want them to be. The I ready the tie time is a time for us to look at in reading. We look at Rigby scores like Mrs. Lewis talked about. We look at our eye ready scores. Both of those are. They're definitive, right? They're not subjective. They are. They are what they are. And then the third one we look at for reading is assessments sometimes feel sometimes stuff that they've seen in the classroom that may outweigh. And I already test score, for instance, if a kid is sick or if a kid, you know, they had maybe a terrible weekend, they took the test on a Monday.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: That has a real impact on their scores. And so sometimes teachers have kind of, an inside look on that. So those are the three, avenues that bluff looks at

[R8948-153] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (surname as heard; resignation acce | 2017-03-01
PREV> Michael Lansing: assessments sometimes feel sometimes stuff that they've seen in the classroom that may outweigh. And I already test score, for instance, if a kid is sick or if a kid, you know, they had maybe a terrible weekend, they took the test on a Monday.
TEXT> That has a real impact on their scores. And so sometimes teachers have kind of, an inside look on that. So those are the three, avenues that bluff looks at for our RTI reading. We take kind of all three of those scores. We meet together and we take a look at what can we do to improve this, these students instruction on an individual level. Do they need to based on their scores and based on the other scores, did they really improve a lot? Did they grow above the  the the projected growth score? If they did, we need to put them in a place where they now belong. If they did not improve, we need to move them down. What do we do? What are trends that we see? How can we support that? It works really, really well for four of my five grades. What? My third grade. Their total score is very high for my school. They were the highest grade level that was on on grade level, if that makes sense. So they had the most kids who were on or above grade level, but their growth was really  it was really small compared to my other grades.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: So for that grade level, we kind of changed who was teaching the students who scored high but didn't have that growth level that we had? It's kind of a

[R8948-156] Dan | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (first name only on record,  | 2017-03-01
PREV> Michael Lansing: to learn. And hopefully by kind of tweaking those and changing those and putting kids in the right groups and getting kids on the computers at the recommended level, our scores will continue to rise and to get to where we want them to be.
TEXT> Maple, we have a lot of similar approaches as the other elementary schools at Maple, though we really haven't dug deep yet in the data.  Our, our staff hasn't had as much experience in going deep with the data. We're kind of going across it right now, and we're noticing things like, our upper grade students who are struggling with readers are being identified as a very limited understanding of phonics. We're learning more things about our programing and maybe what gaps are being revealed that way. We're just starting, and right now we're just asking a ton and ton of questions.  And we're working with Kathleen Bonnell to help put in the structures to have those deeper conversations. But what's helpful about having these broader based questions is that they are begging other questions, and it's leading us down the path for the need to go deeper. So, we've looked at the amount of time. So some interesting data points that come out. First of all, there's so much data that comes out of this. That's that's number one. Just enormous amount of data. But we're noticing like I ready tracks the amount of time that kids are logged on to the system, but also the amount of time that they're actually on task.
NEXT> Dan: So as we're going through this data, we saw a lot of kids, hey, yeah, they're getting their time in. And then you look at their on task time really,

[R8948-160] Paulette | Principal, Claremont Middle School (first name only on record, uncerta | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Hello.
TEXT> So. In the middle school, what I want to do is  explain how. We. Started the year and then what we've done mid-year  and what our action plan is as a response to the data that you've just seen. So when we started the year we revised our intervention block. We also call it when what I need. And after the first round of I ready testing the beginning of the year, our data team reviewed the data, shared it with staff. We grouped students according to their profile, scores, and then, the students received direct instruction, targeted towards their profile. And then they also use the online component that's available. What we were doing, we were switching back and forth. So our red day would be math, the white day would be reading. So kids were were kind of going back and forth. It's an all hands on deck approach. So all of our teachers are involved. Our special ed students have been receiving their specialized instruction according to their IEPs during this one time. And as a staff, also, we've had a huge focus on instructional practices. So we're trying to be consistent throughout the building. So that's been something that we've been working on  using our resource called the Fundamental five.
NEXT> Paulette: So that's how we started the year and also our ongoing curriculum, your work that you've already heard a lot about. At mid-year we thought, okay, it's time to take

[R8948-161] Paulette | Principal, Claremont Middle School (first name only on record, uncerta | 2017-03-01
PREV> Paulette: to their IEPs during this one time. And as a staff, also, we've had a huge focus on instructional practices. So we're trying to be consistent throughout the building. So that's been something that we've been working on using our resource called the Fundamental five.
TEXT> So that's how we started the year and also our ongoing curriculum, your work that you've already heard a lot about. At mid-year we thought, okay, it's time to take a look at how Wind Block is is going. So we surveyed the staff  to find out what how they thought things were going. And then our data team met and we looked at the results of that survey. We  had some technology issues, some student access issues and other things that we thought, okay, these are this is some low hanging fruit that we think we can tweak for the second half of the year. We also have been piloting, Velux foreign language with ten of our high achieving eighth graders, just to see how that's going to go as well. Yesterday actually, we met and looked at our mid-year data, the data that you've seen, we completed a formal data walk, and we ended up with a lot of questions. Which is good. I think, kind of like what Dan was saying. You know, you look at it and it's like, oh, maybe we have more questions than we have answers, but we think there are some things we can do.
NEXT> Paulette: One of the things that we are planning to do is to really disaggregate the data because we we have all of these questions. So we have some students who

[R8948-162] Paulette | Principal, Claremont Middle School (first name only on record, uncerta | 2017-03-01
PREV> Paulette: a lot of questions. Which is good. I think, kind of like what Dan was saying. You know, you look at it and it's like, oh, maybe we have more questions than we have answers, but we think there are some things we can do.
TEXT> One of the things that we are planning to do is to really disaggregate the data because we we have all of these questions. So we have some students who made really great gains. Why did they make these really great gains? What's happening with them? And how can we replicate that with other kids? Perhaps we have some students who didn't make the expected gains. What's  impacting them? Some high achieving students, some really high achieving students who we know are really invested didn't make gains. Those scores went down. What's going on there? And so we actually have a list of questions for our eye ready consultant. And you know, is does it have to do why is this different from map. You know, kids are high achieving. Kids with map testing usually made the steady,  steady progress. So why is why is the data from I ready looking different?  Not good or bad. Just you know, we just have these questions. We also want to look at our special education students, our fit students and, and see where they are fitting in. How is attendance impacting scores, all of that.
NEXT> Paulette: We can make some guesses, but we really need to dig down a little more. But our action plan is to present all of the data to the staff actually

[R8948-163] Paulette | Principal, Claremont Middle School (first name only on record, uncerta | 2017-03-01
PREV> Paulette: I ready looking different? Not good or bad. Just you know, we just have these questions. We also want to look at our special education students, our fit students and, and see where they are fitting in. How is attendance impacting scores, all of that.
TEXT> We can make some guesses, but we really need to dig down a little more. But our action plan is to present all of the data to the staff actually next week and show them the results of our data walk. The questions we have. As I said, we want to continue to disaggregate and really drill down deeper. Try to get some of these questions answered. We are regrouping students according to their new profile scores. And we're rearranging our wind group schedules so that one week we'll be focusing on reading. The next week we'll be focusing on math during that wind time. Another thing that we're switching is Wednesday of every week is going to be more of a flex time, where teachers will be scheduling students to meet with them to work on their the grade level work. So  we have some students who can't stay after for reaching and and retaking of some of, their summative. So we thought, well, let's put a flex block, you know, in the middle of the week and we'll see how that goes. So we have a,  you know, some different things that we're trying to tweak. We didn't want to change what we're doing too much, because we want to be able to look at the end of the year, at the entire year and try to control the variables to, to a certain degree.
NEXT> Paulette: Let me see. And of course, we're continuing. Oh, we've addressed our technology issues. So that's working out a little better. Now, of course, we're continuing our focus on instruction

[R8948-170] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> There are students that haven't had any of those classes. How do you how do you look at the data and really figure out what they mean? You have to actually take the data and and dispose of, or at least.
NEXT> Unidentified: We.

[R8948-172] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: We.
TEXT> Have to section off a bunch of students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Because.

[R8948-178] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: So those.
TEXT> Students.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Will have started their math class now. So that third assessment will show their growth.

[R8948-180] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: Will have started their math class now. So that third assessment will show their growth.
TEXT> So the students that took it in the fall, they were only taking one. Watering while they're in a math class. They're taking the I ready once. Correct.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So the second one just.

[R8948-190] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: students in classes. And that, I think, will help to incentivize kids really giving their best on these tests. So we get a truer picture of what their actual growth is. Finally, what we've done in working with the middle school is in this process.
TEXT> This year, we've guidance has redone the course selection forms that we're giving to our rising freshmen. And on there, we're asking for the eighth grade guidance to put their I ready scores so that we're using that even before they even come to Stevens to determine placement and have that conversation about where kids will will best succeed in what classes and at what levels. So.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Patrick, question.

[R8948-207] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: Use we find it to be my wife and I a great tool. We really like it.
TEXT> So are you able to access it at home? Are your kids using.
NEXT> Unidentified: It at home?

[R8948-211] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And that's and that is something that's nice about it being web based that kids can access it at home. Some students. So the instructional component of it, there's the, the assessment component of it. And then there's the instructional component of it. The instructional component of it is only designed to go up to about the eighth grade level, generic level. And so we do have students,  who have maxed out on the instructional side of things. And that's where Paulette mentioned they're  using v lax with some students in the, in the middle school. Now, those are students who have maxed out on the eye ready instructional component  and now are moving on to other things because they've  there's no more learning necessarily, that can be done through that instructional.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So they can't go to ninth grade.

[R8948-215] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (surname as heard; resignation acce | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Good. Right. Yes. So.
TEXT> Patrick, you asked what's different  for I, I  was just compare it to math from last year. Right. Math give us a lot of data to the two things that I think I already do really well it's super usable  is one,  the math and reading, when you get the test scores, it is broken down into four distinct categories. And so what you can do with those four distinct categories is you can say, hey, student A is really good at three out of these four categories, but they really need help out of this fourth category. Let's attack that. Let's take a two week boot camp. Let's let's get that score on. Could have never done that before with NAB or at least with this amount of ease. And you can do that both with math, math and reading. That's one awesome aspect of it. The second thing you can do that's really important and again, really easy is it puts students into five what we call profile groups.  And those profile groups are students who have a like scores. So it's really easy to make groups of students who have similar deficiencies.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: It gets a little more complicated that as you dig deeper. But, but but if you want to make adjustments to your intervention groups, it is a quick, easy way

[R8948-216] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (surname as heard; resignation acce | 2017-03-01
PREV> Michael Lansing: you can do that's really important and again, really easy is it puts students into five what we call profile groups. And those profile groups are students who have a like scores. So it's really easy to make groups of students who have similar deficiencies.
TEXT> It gets a little more complicated that as you dig deeper. But, but but if you want to make adjustments to your intervention groups, it is a quick, easy way to have a starting point begin those discussions to say, hey, you know what? I've already put every single kid in this grade level into into groups. And so let's talk about these groups. Let's look at each kid now individually. Maybe we adjust them a little bit. But you can make a choice. And a good example would be if you have 25 kids in a certain profile grouping, because they're lacking these two skills, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on this. Maybe we need to reteach it. Maybe we need kind of attack in a different way. And it's so easy to know and so easy to access. And I couldn't have done that through map with  without calling the map people and taking time. And this and then and I already makes it easy and readable and usable and  my staff can  are are all good at it now. And it didn't take a lot of effort.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: It took some practice. It took some some coaching. But it wasn't an extensive, ongoing, forceful implementation by me. I'll get it. They all use it. We all love it.

[R8948-226] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: So so it's.
TEXT> The parent reports to that come home with with with specific instructions of how parents can help their students at home as well.  And in terms of just time, just talk about time alone for a teacher to generate that level of specificity in a report to parents, it would take a significant amount of time. And this is something that that's just another byproduct of what it will spit out at the end. If you press a certain button.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's really helpful.

[R8948-228] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: It's really helpful.
TEXT> You made a comment about you've seen this kind of data before. Our hope is  that over time, students with that type of tailored intervention as a result of this information, that over time we're going to see that old pageant start to become diminished.  We just started, but I'm optimistic with a building leaders, with our faculty using this data and with parents like you just heard, Alex, I parents using this data to provide some assistance as well. We'll make we'll make a difference.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So one of the goals is college readiness, right? Getting students graduating. So is there any data that I I'm new to? I ready is how long have they been

[R8948-229] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: start to become diminished. We just started, but I'm optimistic with a building leaders, with our faculty using this data and with parents like you just heard, Alex, I parents using this data to provide some assistance as well. We'll make we'll make a difference.
TEXT> So one of the goals is college readiness, right? Getting students graduating. So is there any data that I I'm new to? I ready is how long have they been around or. I mean is is there correlations to improved SAT scores college readiness.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They've been around for. Six seven years maybe at most. So they're relatively new. One of the things that's again, better about I already than other products we've used in

[R8948-275] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Right. And now we're talking about even with a warrant articles including a company significant.
TEXT> We started out to accomplish. But again and I don't want any editorializing any anything with it. Just this page. Here it is. This is the reality. It's people can make it. It's pretty clear when you look at this  and it goes back to the communication piece. We're talking earlier that there's a whole lot more to this than here's our budget times X students. Here's the tax rate. There's a whole lot more to it. And this might go a little way for people going right.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: And this is something that something we didn't talk about because it was insignificant. And the last thing you want to hear me talk about is something else. I get

[R8948-322] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: And yeah.
TEXT> I just want to put that because that's where so much of what we, what our budgets go for is so much social related. There comes a point when in our situation, somebody's got to spearhead some some of this so we can get back to educating kids to a certain degree, but you can't turn your back. So I guess that's the caveat to all this is I appreciate us doing it, but it is a shout out to the city that it might be nice if they took the lead on some of this.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm not going to defend the city or the city council, but I will. I will share with you. We're in this position today because of the city of Claremont,

[R8948-365] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Last month.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, I know that we've talked about wanting to have get the teachers input and student input and, you know, there were some, some, some who attended the, the,  the public, this was form or  it was.
NEXT> Unidentified: It.

[R8948-449] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah, he he will be missed. All in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? We have a couple first reads for policies.
TEXT> There were three policies as a cover letter that explains the changes. Some of these are, are  the result of, of RSA s procedural safeguards, nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap, disability, and significant changes that amendments have been made to this policy. And as you can read, consulting with the Department of Education, certain statements directed directing interested persons to the Dewey website, procedural safeguards is within this policy. Now, that was not the case before emergency care and first aid. Likewise, there have been some amendments with recent legislation. And then lastly, evaluation requirements for children with specific learning disabilities. Once again, a statement directing interested persons to the website is within the policy. So with this very small changes to inserts, but in compliance with  the legislation. So these are before you as first.
NEXT> Unidentified: Read.

[R8948-461] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Chris Irish: Alex's got something. I've got.
TEXT> Some comment. Okay. Good one. If it's at all possible, the student state legislature. I think that they said that it was $200 per student that they pay to attend. Is that correct? Did I understand that correctly?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I did not hear that.

[R8948-468] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> I don't believe I'm going to ask. And this is not a board sanction  request, that they look at some sort of student activity fund. If we are funding sports at a level, this is exactly what we talked about with civic leadership and action that the school look at supplementing that somehow so that students that have may have more of a financial need can go in the future. I'd like that direction be said if possible. Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: For future agenda items. Specifically, April and Middleton had already mentioned it. I'd like to see that that draft or whatever we're going to call it of the the plan

[R8948-513] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Could do a big we can maybe.
TEXT> Stevens, maybe Stevens students  a.
NEXT> Unidentified: Class kids involved here.

[R8948-514] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes short interjections from several board me | 2017-03-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Stevens, maybe Stevens students a.
TEXT> Class kids involved here.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Just just don't get me started. But my thought on that whole civics class is even even if I don't think we need a teacher for it, I think elected

[R8948-515] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-03-01
PREV> Unidentified: Class kids involved here.
TEXT> Just just don't get me started. But my thought on that whole civics class is even even if I don't think we need a teacher for it, I think elected officials could teach it. But honestly, I thought that if we can get a civics class that does elect  local politics, they could host absolutely. As the students we you know, we did at the council years ago. I mean, you could literally get the students to host that candidates for them.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So while we're talking about our committee about having actually having people, people from the community to come in and sometimes do a class with, with class. So that's something.

[R8976-73] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair at this meeting [63]) | 2017-03-15
PREV> Unidentified: Abstain. Abstain.
TEXT> Staying. Okay. Motion passes. Student representative reports.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Actually, Marion Lovett is not able to be here this evening. I have a few things, however, to say in her stead, which I can do during my report.

[R8976-100] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (cluster also holds the group oath, chai | 2017-03-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: us. But I think if we continue to communicate with the community and inform them about what's going on, they can make a decision. At least that is based on information that is clear to them. So I look forward to that process as well.
TEXT> Frank, regarding student athletes, tickets for the Saint Joseph's Sports Award should be coming. Down. When is when is it?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: March 29th.

[R8976-161] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: You, Patrick.
TEXT> Yes. Just one thing. I just want to  put on public record. And I think some of those questions are valid and should be asked while we're doing the search. The one  that I  wanted to address was, I guess, the concern about that when students don't pay that they it goes on. The taxpayers, I don't know, I don't can't speak for all vendors. I do know that it with one of the vendors that serves many districts in the area, that's not the case that they that students who will have a bill and that goes to the parents. So I just wanted, you know, in case for, you know, the public that, you know, we don't know that's the case. And I think that in some cases that, you know, the the families do get billed. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm good. I lost my place.

[R8976-195] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: who's where until then. But I think I think I'm going to be asking for that. And I'm hoping that, you know, we can use that as a tool so we can really go into when we start looking at personnel, it's very intentional. Sure.
TEXT> I think if I may, Brian, I think what Frank had just said is exactly what we're looking for. We have a calendar on. So let's say in the second week of September, the calendar might show  a staffing data. So you can identify the pupil teacher ratio. You can identify,  how we're maximizing our employees, something of that nature. Yes. Versus just random reduction. It would be strategic. And that that's something that we can plan to do months ahead of time if we start this spring.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah. Thank you Patrick.

[R8976-249] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Patrick Adrian: 13th of.
TEXT> The 13th of June. So I just wanted you to know that,  and the reality is,  when we if we don't have snow days, if we don't have delayed openings and we haven't lost time, that will be to everyone's advantage. But we are above and beyond the law, and there are a lot of districts, I think because of being this kind of weather we've been having, it's quite challenging. And having school in the third or fourth week of June is is not a great idea. However, what is an essential idea is that the students in our district  provide above and beyond the minimum, and that's what we're doing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Great.

[R8976-257] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: Last year our summer break was actually three full months. Three full months. Good. Pretty amazing. We have a couple of board policies up for second read. Yes.
TEXT> Practical safeguards. Nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap of disability. Emergency care and first aid and evaluation requirements for children with special learning disabilities. There was there was a two page cover letter to these policies that gives you a background as to why these policies, these three policies are before you. Some of these policies were reviewed  less than two years ago, but because of changes in the RSA, we've done some some adjusting to be in compliance. So a CEEBBC and I hb a before you as a second read and for the benefit of Rebecca and Mike, you electronically will receive this information. In the future you'll have a chance to review it. And I welcome questions comments as we go through this process. These policies are drafts. They're revisions based on recommendations of New Hampshire School Board Association and also as required by the legislative changes. And what are your responsibilities as school board is is policy. And my job is to facilitate that. But you have the final say. So these three policies,   Roman numeral ten BAB, c r before you were to second read.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Bless you.

[R8976-281] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you very much. And now we have our, That's a lead.
TEXT> Yes. This policy historically to to Rebecca and Mike's benefit. A few months ago, the city council and the Claremont School Board met, and there was a presentation by a specialist  from the I think it was Department of Human Health Services, that dealt with lead and lead poisoning. And there is on the second and third page of the cover letter before the policies, some background information about the seriousness of this, especially in, in, in residences that are built before 1978, that may very well have paint that has has led in it. So this policy that's before you as, as a first read lead screening policy has been vetted by the Valley Regional Hospital. It's been vetted by the state. I've shared it with the city council through Charlie Leavitt  as partners with this. And and the spirit of this is we will have  in in the spring a lead screening policy that will be dovetailed to the immunization protocols for children to enter public schools. And the goal is, is to have a greater awareness for all the population. Now, most pediatricians and most parents have their children go through this screening protocol. And to if there's a high lead content in the blood and then some intervention would be required. This is going to make it more more aware to all, especially our residents who may move in.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It may come from a particular state or area of the country where this is not as as of heightened importance. This is the first school district I know of

[R8976-292] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair at this meeting [63]) | 2017-03-15
PREV> Michelle Pierce: As a way to tie it into like their shot, their shots like you were suggesting. More so like.
TEXT> It was supposed to have been. It's it sounds like it wasn't. It wasn't always being done. But it will it correct me if I'm wrong, this will be on sort of the checklist of things that need to be accomplished when you enroll your child.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Right.

[R8976-305] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-15
PREV> Unidentified: Nobody had. Me, I was waiting.
TEXT> The difference was that, biologically,  my brain, my my system was able to screen it out because of my age, but I think six years or earlier, that filter isn't there. A week ago today, proposed New Hampshire bill takes aim at lead poisoning. After this policy, I included an article that was in the Sentinel source. Com Keene Sentinel. That that reinforces the importance of this. So this is going to be talked about more. And I'm very pleased again, working in partnership with the city council, with Valley Regional Hospital, with our school nurses. They've vetted this as well. We are partners here. We're not working in separate silos. And then after the policy is in place, we'll have the resources to support families and hopefully identify children and provide assistance long before this continues.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I'd like. To see a press article when we when we're getting when we actually start implementing it. Just, you know, I've spent every time there's kind of like one

[R8976-306] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-15
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: with our school nurses. They've vetted this as well. We are partners here. We're not working in separate silos. And then after the policy is in place, we'll have the resources to support families and hopefully identify children and provide assistance long before this continues.
TEXT> I'd like. To see a press article when we  when we're getting when we actually start implementing it. Just, you know, I've spent every time there's kind of like one of these, housing issues coming up. You know, I've been kind of going on of the what's up, Claremont and, you know, mentioning this to the point that now somebody will say like, oh, I'm,  you know, everything's about lead poisoning, lead paint with you. But my concern is it's sort of like with the school funding thing, the new changes that I remember hearing it report on it, or hearing that I talk to them on public radio and local public radio, kind of bringing this up, say this is happening. No one notices until now. They're noticing.  And a lot of people have ideas of just because of the information they thought that that all kids are getting tested and all infants are getting tested in our by pediatricians. I did want to bring up, I can't remember I was because I was going to get the information why that's not the case.  So, so so on one hand, it's like, yeah, these are the kind of concerns. But I did want to actually ask that again. So I could kind of like give that information because I kind of explain not all where a lot of children in New Hampshire not getting this screening. So why why.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Does it it sounded like it was just an oversight. It was it was just something that wasn't thought of to do.

[R8976-370] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - not named when speaking; 'c | 2017-03-15
PREV> Patrick Adrian: You talked about this meetings guidelines, and that's why I kept saying we meant we're meeting federal guidelines, but we're also hearing that they didn't address this. The customers, if you want to call them that, are very, very unhappy.
TEXT> And children.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Meaning the children, the faculty, the parents.

[R8976-377] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (cluster also holds the group oath, chai | 2017-03-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: We don't have to talk about it anymore. Thanks for answering.
TEXT> I'll take a shot because I have quite a bit of experience with lunch and lunch duty. Did lunch duty at Stephens High School for eight years, and I'm doing lunch duty now in Newport Middle High School,  where, they have fresh picks.  And kids at Stephen's High School would tell me as I'm bringing them back into the school. Well, if they serve something good ID here. And so looking at the menu at Newport Middle High School with fresh picks and knowing after eight years of doing one study at Stevens High School that there is absolutely no comparison. The variety is more.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Oh yeah. The good things.

[R8976-379] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (cluster also holds the group oath, chai | 2017-03-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Oh yeah. The good things.
TEXT> The, And we don't we don't have kids sneaking out of Newport Middle High School to to go by.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: It's very true.

[R9010-4] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, City of Claremont | 2017-03-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: introduce our new city manager, Ryan McNutt. He. We've scheduled on the agenda a few minutes for him to speak. Kind of introduce himself, because I think this is the first time you've officially had a chance to meet him. So take it away, man.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Mayor.  And thank you,  school board members and city councilors for coming. And thank you for inviting me to this meeting. I'd like to start by saying that I've had the opportunity to  tour Stephens High School with Assistant Superintendent Corey LeClair, and I just want to  commend you guys on having a very well  run school. It's very attractive inside. It's very clean. I think the  renovations that you did to the school are beautiful, and you got a lot for your money, and I think  it shows  how well  your teaching staff is and your administrative staff by how well the students respect the school and the renovations. It's very rare to see  high schools that have like hardwood flooring and have it be in that condition that it's in. The the hallways were very clean.  I've seen a lot of,  you know, tough school districts and inner city schools and in many cases the buildings are in tough shape. And in the worst case scenarios, the students don't respect the building and it's not conducive to a good learning environment. But that was not my impression in any way of Stephen's high school. It was absolutely a beautiful high school. So  I really think that you guys have done a good job, and I want to commend you for that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you.

[R9010-11] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Brian Rapp: understand why. And it's it's just a brief summation about why we're doing it. And, Like I said, we had our first read last meeting. We're scheduled for our second read. And, Middleton, I don't think we have any other updates. Do we know we.
TEXT> Don't other than yesterday, the  our nurses had the opportunity to have some additional training by representative from the Department of Health that had come down and spoke with us initially back, I believe it was in the, in the spring.  And the nurses have weighed in. Peter Wright has weighed in. I've asked Peter to have his medical staff review this as well, even before you saw it. We've made one adjustment changing  or adding, I should say, on the  last second to last paragraph of the document where it said lead test and required for children entering kindergarten. We're going to be changing that.  We did change the second paragraph of the second second to last entering pre-kindergarten. I'm going to also add entering pre-kindergarten or kindergarten on the title as well. So because this is not an issue that clearly begins in kindergarten, we want  our community to be aware and to be informed and starting this as soon as possible. The screening and we we all, if you remember those on the on the board at that time, the city council, we had the opportunity of having a presentation and the importance of  early, early understanding and early intervention  and to have the blood work done very soon, as soon as possible.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And but more importantly, I should say, more importantly, as importantly, to have the community be informed and to be aware. And that's, I think, why this policy is so

[R9010-29] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (addressed 'Madam Mayor'; first and last name | 2017-03-30
PREV> John Cloutier: I may be wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. I thought they passed it, but.
TEXT> Okay, so a little bit of a clarification. We're getting a little ahead of ourselves. Sorry, but,  before we get there, if it's okay. Representative cloudier. Mr. Thibeault? Yes? I'm sorry. You have a place at the table if you would like. And,  if you would like to join us, that'd be great. Mr. Thibeault is with Southwestern Community Services, and he is our newest holder in this conversation with regard to the screening and prevention of lead poisoning in children. And if you'd like to take a few minutes to tell everybody here what Southwestern Community Service has been doing with regard to this issue would be great.
NEXT> Keith Thibeault: Sure. Again, my name is Keith. I represent Southwestern Community Services. We've. With the Community Action Agency that serves Cheshire and Sullivan counties, and we've we've been dealing with the

[R9010-30] Keith Thibeault | Southwestern Community Services representative (self-identified 'my na | 2017-03-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: newest holder in this conversation with regard to the screening and prevention of lead poisoning in children. And if you'd like to take a few minutes to tell everybody here what Southwestern Community Service has been doing with regard to this issue would be great.
TEXT> Sure. Again, my name is Keith. I represent Southwestern Community Services. We've. With the Community Action Agency that serves Cheshire and Sullivan counties, and we've we've been dealing with the lead paint issue in the two counties that we serve for,  at least 20 years.   We wish we could have done more over that time, but we've done with what we have, with what we have. We have done a number of things. Our one of the programs we run as Head Start,  all of our Head Start children are tested.  They are interestingly, they are tested by members of our Wick program women, Infants and children program that provides nutrition and, and, and,   other  well, child clinics and so forth for children who are under the age of five.  So they're the ones who conduct the tests. And,  we also run a home rehabilitation program for the past 20 plus years.  Some of that has focused specifically on lead paint abatement. We got a specific grant that did some work over in Newport several years ago.  There are resources available for that kind of work.  In the communities, we have  folks on staff that are trained and certified and lead abatement and, and can write the specs and work with work with contractors.
NEXT> Keith Thibeault: So, I just would like to offer up us as a partner in this effort. Again, I've, like, just like your new manager. I've cut my teeth on a lot

[R9010-48] Keith Thibeault | Southwestern Community Services representative (self-identified 'my na | 2017-03-30
PREV> Keith Thibeault: it was a House committee that had wanted to table it. But there's an opportunity to get that to come out of that, that sort of limbo. And that's happening right now. So it's, it's being it's being debated pretty heavily at the state level.
TEXT> And, and that legislation, this is the second year they've tried to get more in. We last year they were able to lower the level at which a child is considered lead paint poisoned it. It had been at 20 micrograms per deciliter. I think it is. We got lowered to ten. Which, which I think is appropriate because the shades of difference between 11 and 19 are child's poisoned regardless. So there's been inroads made in the state and there's more being attempted. So we're states starting to really get it. Pay its attention to this. And I think Claremont has an opportunity to really lead.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Mr..

[R9010-55] Keith Thibeault | Southwestern Community Services representative (self-identified 'my na | 2017-03-30
PREV> Unidentified: Think in some not not some industrial exposure?
TEXT> Yes, I think and they've been doing that. There's there's other lead hazards in paint. This led in water  that potentially the corrosion of water pipes and other things. I think that the the  those that those that do track this are able to it's been the whole idea of enforcement has been underfunded for a long time in New Hampshire. So it's not not up to now. There has not been a lot of other resources. I don't think there's been many between water and and paint. I don't think there are many other used to be, you know, 20 years ago, cans, canned food sometimes had lead in their, in the, in their ceiling process. But most of that's been eliminated for the most part. But water and paint of the two not many industrial type issues that have  come to light in New Hampshire. But,  up until now, there hasn't been a whole lot of money put toward that piece of it, that enforcement piece of it and that and that, study of it. But,  but I mean, one way or another, once a child is poisoned, they are poisoned, which is the very unfortunate thing of this, this particular affliction.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Are there any other questions for Mr. Teboe?

[R9010-59] Keith Thibeault | Southwestern Community Services representative (self-identified 'my na | 2017-03-30
PREV> Chris Irish: this a lot in Claremont, is the owners aren't coming forward because of the cost factor and the unknown reason. If they know there's no one will be denied because there's money here that might be more successful getting landlords to come forward with it.
TEXT> I think a couple things to that end.  Generally there's there's no enforcement mechanism unless you're are housing a child who's already been identified as being poisoned. So if you're if you've just got it and, and it's identified as such,  there's not going to be any strong arm that's going to come down hard on you. Even those units that are under order in New Hampshire, I'm told there's at this at the current point in time, there's like two people enforcing orders all through the state. So there's not much true enforcement going on.  It's probably less than $15,000 a unit to abate an apartment. So it's not hundreds of thousands of dollars to do this work.  So I think what by what we can do in this at these early stages is start to you can work with us. We can, we can, we can we can deal with with the with the city manager and so forth to get some,  frequently asked questions out there, maybe to start getting information across or what it really means and what it doesn't. So that people aren't afraid to take that first step. But information can be can be very important. And to talk about what the true costs are of doing this, it's not it's not outrageously high abatement is not that, that that that difficult. And then  start to get some by in and invest, you know people vesting themselves into the issue.
NEXT> Keith Thibeault: That's why I started here is great because, You there's we're not seeing this is not intended to be punitive. It's intended to be helpful. And I think information is

[R9010-76] Peter Wright | Valley Regional Hospital representative; chair of the Sullivan County  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: understand that Mr. Wright is here. Mr. Wright, you can sit at the table if you'd like. So we kind of skipped over the screening statistics, and I didn't know what you wanted to bring to the conversation today about what the hospital is doing.
TEXT> Sure. So we're doing a variety of different efforts. First, we applied for a grant to get a lead, a point of care testing lead screening device, which we were granted one and we're pending on another. So the first one is in our pediatrics practice. Essentially what that does is it makes it easier. Thank you for both the practitioner and the patient and their parents to get the testing done. So if you have a two year old child and a pediatric practice, it may seem easy just to walk across the street and get a vena puncture done to do the the proper full on lead test. But if you've ever tried to navigate a two year old, you know you don't particularly like having a needle put in their arm and holding them down still so we can do it right is a bit challenging as well. So we have a small fingerprint test that will essentially can be done right in the office.  And, and be able to test whether there's lead present or been exposure within  the last six months. Unfortunately, everything that we can do is always after the fact. And really all we can do is provide knowledge. Once  a child, particularly between 0 and 6 years old, is exposed,  the damage is done.
NEXT> Peter Wright: It's irreversible. Once they're six years old, there's a membrane that forms around their brain that will essentially not prevent them from getting lead poisoning, but prevent the cognitive deficiencies

[R9010-114] Unidentified | Unidentified - segment splices the end of Adrian's sentence with anoth | 2017-03-30
PREV> Patrick Adrian: believe that if there's a lot of property owners that that fear that seeking help is going to become detrimental. It's batting that. But I have to say, I've done a lot of canvasing and it it works in our communities. Just going toward. The.
TEXT> Door, I would argue, knowing knowingly, knowing that you have a problem with your property and not doing something about it, particularly if it's a rental property and renting it to a family that has small children and knowingly exposing them to those risks puts you at far more risk,  than than legitimately trying to do something about.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Did anybody else have any other questions? Yes.

[R9010-141] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (addressed 'Madam Mayor'; first and last name | 2017-03-30
PREV> Peter Wright: say, look, you know, our our tester is a community tester. I mean, we're we'll go anywhere as long as we can figure out how to staff. It will go anywhere that the city wants for our community testing project. That's part of our mission.
TEXT> And I you weren't here when I mentioned before that, one of our newer stakeholders in this conversation is Claremont, Newport Healthy Homes. And they told me that they had some funding, some grant funding. And if they need, if they can assist with buying test kits, like at registration for kindergarten or pre-kindergarten, they were they could possibly do that. So that's just an option. And did on the council side, we'll look at, you know, language, potential language for perhaps an ordinance, maybe not at this time, but we want to make sure that we have the resources in place before we go down that route. We are going to have the child care provider training. We're looking at either April 11th or the 13th. And I was supposed to pass on to you that that could be opened up to nurses  who also would like to be trained because she can provide CEO, credits for that. So that will be coming up soon. Is there anything else? Does that cover it?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Oh, we go to had this fully operational for the entering pre children this way fully operational within the next month. Operational meaning information being sure that the community is

[R9010-142] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: was supposed to pass on to you that that could be opened up to nurses who also would like to be trained because she can provide CEO, credits for that. So that will be coming up soon. Is there anything else? Does that cover it?
TEXT> Oh, we go to had this fully operational for the entering pre children this way fully operational within the next month. Operational meaning information being sure that the community is aware  and also to strengthen our partnerships with Valley Regional and the state with the city as we go forward together with this. It's not going to be an inoculation that's going to fix it. It's going to be an incremental process, and we just can't post something and figure we've done it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay.

[R9010-151] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: yours, live free or die. And so we then and now are spending more sense out of a dollar earned by Claremont than almost anybody in the state. And we are getting from that less for that dollar spent than almost anybody in the state.
TEXT> Just to give a couple quick examples for every dollar. And this is based on the fact that  property tax is used as the primary basis for garnering revenue to pay for education.  So when you have a small  amount, you have to raise more to get a certain dollar value.  Rich communities have a larger tax base and therefore don't have to raise as much. To get the same dollars as Claremont does. So just a quick example. Lebanon.  For every dollar we raise,  they would raise four. Senate B would raise eight, the extreme would be  22 times that at Waterville Valley. So the to use property tax which is is based on a local resource, creates a situation where it's not equitable. If you have a larger tax base, be it due to a lake,   a ski area, nuclear power plant,  whatever our university, you have more money to spend on schools. So we spend $16,000 per roughly 16, 17 per student. And you look at a place like Waterville Valley, it spends I think it's a  at least double that. And for a fraction of the cost that we as Claremont would pay.
NEXT> Tom Connair: So I, I first want to say thank you and hats off to, the city of Claremont, the community, its taxpayers, the school boards, administration and the city council and

[R9010-154] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: In a fair way. More time was spent saying, you know, the court was wrong. They don't have that authority. Let's amend the Constitution that's been going on for many years to take that piece out. So education is a is not a fundamental right.
TEXT> The justice of the Supreme Court was impeached,  I believe, because of that reason.  He he was not found guilty. Impeachment means you're you're kind of indicted. It was for some other reason. But all of these things to a co-equal branch of government made it very difficult and continue to make it difficult for school boards, particularly property poor areas, to do the right thing. And I can say Claremont is a great place to live.  I raised my kids here.  I enjoyed it here. I still practice law here,  and, I'm older than many people who, were kids when we started this. Well,  all of them when we started, but it's it's a constant struggle and we have to continue it on. And it always struck me and struck the school board that it was ironic. It's not because we don't have the money in the state of New Hampshire to adequately fund education. Well, one of the richest states in the United States, all wealth combined. And yet when you take out the property tax piece of it.
NEXT> Tom Connair: We were and probably are still close to 50th in the nation in terms of state monies given to education. Now, when you build in all the property taxes from

[R9010-157] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: this they really shouldn't have called it adequate because adequate has a negative connotation where in fact they should have called it quality. So they don't have to buy a Cadillac. They don't have spent $32,000 that Waterloo Valley does. But how about the median?
TEXT> Because what  the court wants the court laid out the the indicia, the indicators of what a quality education is. It does not want to bend over and get into the substantive realm  of the legislature, because they're the ones who make the laws. The court, however, can say, well, you can make whatever your laws you want, but it doesn't meet the criteria established  in the Constitution. So they have expressed general terms. Given the complexities of our society today, the state's constitutional duty adequacy extends beyond mere writing,  reading and arithmetic. It extends to broad educational opportunities needed in today's society to prepare citizens for the role as participants, as potential competitors in today's marketplace of ideas. And again, the statute goes on to talk about,  things necessary to prepare students for participation social, economic, scientific, technological, political systems of a free government now and in the years to come. That's what adequacy is. But again, it has that negative connotation. So now we have the state saying, okay, well we'll give you we'll give you some money. And that's adequacy. And it's not the state's business to say what substantive or isn't. Well, it is if it reaches a point where it is so unwieldy and so unfair that  we have  people losing their accreditation, you're not meeting the accountability standards and things like that.
NEXT> Tom Connair: So once again, the court said in 2006, again, this is 13 years after these repeated cases. Yeah, we're the judiciary. We're not going to tell you what to do.

[R9010-161] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: we've come a long way, but we still have a long way to go, so I thought it might be appropriate, maybe either for Brian or Milton, just to talk about how the failure of the state to implement this stuff is, is affecting this.
TEXT> Again, we spent $16,000. Waterville Valley spends 32.  All right. State and Hampshire, we just want that piece. That's the quality piece. Well all right, we'll give you $3,600 and then maybe some extra because you have some  students who can't buy lunch. But in no way is that, in my opinion, in the in the opinion of others,  sufficient to meet the constitutional threshold of what is required. And this is a this is an ongoing process.  We're going to meet again soon. The  The Claremont Lawsuit Coalition, which consists of the the four lawyers,  representing the the districts and a member of each of the five school districts that started. So anyway, that's all I have to say, and I'll sit down.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you, mister. And before I turn it over to the school board for that follow on that you suggested, I just want to remind everybody why we're discussing this

[R9010-162] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (addressed 'Madam Mayor'; first and last name | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: going to meet again soon. The The Claremont Lawsuit Coalition, which consists of the the four lawyers, representing the the districts and a member of each of the five school districts that started. So anyway, that's all I have to say, and I'll sit down.
TEXT> Thank you, mister.  And before I turn it over to the school board for that follow on that you suggested, I just want to remind everybody why we're discussing this at the joint level. Yes. It's a it's an education issue, but from a global issue it impacts this community as far as growing and it impacts this community as far as what the perception is  of the Claremont School system. So  unless we can get some help from the state level, we're we're really fighting an uphill battle in growing this community and projecting what we know, because we have kids that have come through the school system, that we do offer a quality education. But we're we're really, really constrained in how we can do that. We just and we're at I think this last budgetary session, we all understand that the school district has done a stellar job, but it can't continue so well.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And that's that's just it. You know, both both sides of the government, the city and the and the, the the school district have needs. We have we have services

[R9010-173] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Gauthier: no support at the state House for any other type of tax, and. After the after this, this community brought the Claremont decision, and the legislature is still acting the way they're acting is. I'm disgusted with that organization down at the state. I really
TEXT> If you if you if I may just wrap up because I don't want to monopolize on the third of of the second the last page in this this document, it says Senate Bill 192, education savings account bill adequacy aid reduction to 4%, if left unchecked over the next 18 or so years, will take over $5 million from the education opportunities of children in this community. Senate Bill 193 is a voucher bill and seeks to provide monetary incentives for parents to withdraw their children from public school. The bill provides that if a student withdraws from public school or charters public school, that student is eligible to receive a scholarship equal to the state adequacy aid grant the school district would otherwise have received. So I have I have no ill feelings toward parochial schools or private schools. But this bill, if it goes unchecked, will allow parents, which is their right to have their child go elsewhere, and that's a parent's right. But the funding to help support that would come from public education. And if you go through this, I'm going to Concord with several other superintendents next Tuesday, April 4th, to testify. This is a very, very serious matter.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if you take about, there are approximately 25,000 New Hampshire students who might be eligible for this for this particular scholarship, 5000 or homeschool 3000 charter schools and 17,000

[R9010-174] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: elsewhere, and that's a parent's right. But the funding to help support that would come from public education. And if you go through this, I'm going to Concord with several other superintendents next Tuesday, April 4th, to testify. This is a very, very serious matter.
TEXT> And if you take about, there are approximately 25,000 New Hampshire students who might be eligible for this for this particular scholarship, 5000 or homeschool 3000 charter schools and 17,000 are independent schools at $3,000 each. That's $75 million. So it's important that the community in Claremont, let alone statewide, understands that not only do we have an issue of adequacy, but now we have an issue where funding intended and designed for public education will be diverted if the parents choose to to a nonpublic. And where will that difference be made up by. So I, I'm a real advocate that when you have a challenge, it's an opportunity. So I am not saying we're in serious trouble. I'm saying we have to be just similar to lead. We must be informed of the seriousness of this, and we must have our voices be heard in Concord. And if we do not do this, then I fear the history, similar to Massachusetts in the late 1980s, will repeat itself because we don't have the tax base to make up the difference in our community, as many other communities don't. So children are not entitled to a free and appropriate education of equal status to their peers. There is based on where they live. And that's wrong. That is wrong.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I've got it. Because if I forget all this, there's so many buttons being pushed. And Tom, I really appreciate the presentation and I can't be as positive as either

[R9010-177] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - cluster onset 'Mr. Iris | 2017-03-30
PREV> Chris Irish: on the city council, I've been on the school board, I've been a state rep. And when it comes to the state, nobody cares about us because the majority of those representatives in New Hampshire, in Concord are from communities that don't have this issue.
TEXT> It's not about education, it's about money, and it's about funding. And they don't want to change that. And it's whatever the conversation, it's always going to be about that funding source. And until we have that conversation, you're going to be having this conversation for the rest of your life as well as I have. I've been yelling and screaming about this for 30 years, too, and it keeps coming back to adequate. I don't want my kid to have an adequate education, and I want my kid to have the best education they have, but it stops at funding. And in the other piece of the puzzle that we haven't talked about, where it's why for me, it's more serious than it's ever been. The charter school issue. If the state of New Hampshire goes this route, it's a it's one nail in the coffin for public education, because I don't see what we have in New Hampshire as public education. I see we have every community fighting for themselves to have their schools to survive. We don't have a big umbrella anymore. We're all on our own to do the best we can, but we're also as school districts. We're now being forced by the state. Brian's point we're not providing just education anymore. We're providing social meeting, social needs. We're meeting medical needs.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We've talked about lead poisoning, and the state's not giving us any funding for this. So to think that we've somehow progressed, we progress. I will say this. I remember

[R9010-178] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - cluster onset 'Mr. Iris | 2017-03-30
PREV> Chris Irish: big umbrella anymore. We're all on our own to do the best we can, but we're also as school districts. We're now being forced by the state. Brian's point we're not providing just education anymore. We're providing social meeting, social needs. We're meeting medical needs.
TEXT> We've talked about lead poisoning, and the state's not giving us any funding for this. So to think that we've somehow progressed, we progress. I will say this. I remember in 1989, I was on a school board somewhere else in the state when a lawsuit started to happen in the perception of Claremont was horrific and it was a black eye for years. That's what we progress. We've made people realize Claremont is an amazing place to live, and we are doing amazing things with very limited resources. So from that standpoint, we've come, we have progressed. But for the rest of this, it's just mind boggling to think that that people somehow think this is a good road to go for any of these things is we need somebody to to lead us and get some leadership. But I just think we've lost faith in public education. And I don't understand why, you know, all of us have kids that have gone through these systems. I've had two that gone to college. We're doing the best we can, but at some point somebody's got to come help.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So, Representative Gauthier and then Councilor Pope and.

[R9010-248] Tom Connair | Attorney, Claremont school funding lawsuit counsel (ASR 'Tom cannon',  | 2017-03-30
PREV> Unidentified: And letters writing letters of definitely written many. I just want to make sure that people, people watching people in the community know exactly what they can do to help and be proactive and light a flame under some butts.
TEXT> And it doesn't. It doesn't take a  knowledge of complex legal issues where the richest state in the country, we pay the least per pupil in the country. Claremont pays  among the highest taxes in the state of New Hampshire and. The state is not living up to the  requirements set forth by the the New Hampshire Supreme Court. And what they're doing now is not just fair, unfair, but it's it's unconstitutional. It's kind of an in-your-face unconstitutional.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I'm a firm believer in strength in numbers. That's why I asked that question, because I feel like we really need to get the community involved, and we really

[R9010-263] Pope | Claremont City Councilor (first name not on this recording; roster lis | 2017-03-30
PREV> Tom Connair: Was the one superintendents I know Nashua. There's these one in Keene, a group around Keene. But let me know because if in fact, we go the next step, we're going to decide we have to decide what's the best.
TEXT> So that was one point. And then the other one is I just want to make sure that the public knows that this there's two different types of  charter schools. There's the private charter schools and the public charter schools. And if, say, Claremont had a public charter school and students pulled out of that public charter school, then the community would be penalized. Let's say it's an alternative school run in the public school type situation. Now they pull out of that. So I just want to make sure that's clarified as well. So it's not just any charter school, it's public versus private.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So to your first point, Counselor Pope, we had said that we would give, Mr. Conor the background information, HB 525, which is what you're you were talking about the

[R9010-273] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-30
PREV> Unidentified: That's right. Right. Well, right.
TEXT> Well, I guess I just. Want to agree with that. I just wanted to verify this because this is why I read from, the state centers. Editorial. So for a lot of the public ought to know if they have. So am I correct on this? Those families already have students in private school. I'm not sure if this applies to the home school students as well. If they're not, if they're in private school right now, they're not eligible. That was. What the state senator reported they would have to be. It's only if you if you are currently enrolled in public school and then withdrawn. That's what.
NEXT> Chris Irish: The state. Yeah I heard one one was it was going to be basically retroactive that you'll get it if you put them in okay.

