[R9010-275] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-03-30
PREV> Chris Irish: The state. Yeah I heard one one was it was going to be basically retroactive that you'll get it if you put them in okay.
TEXT> That then maybe that's changed from what the the article I read. But the and the other thing is so if you have a family, if you're, you have like five children, you're going to get like 15. So you're going to get $15,000 like three times what you're paying property taxes. I mean, how I mean, it seems like that that does start going again would start going against given the fact that  unless they are going to explain where the funding is going to come from, it's coming from money that was coming here. So it sounds like this is going to go beyond an impact on the school district. It does start affecting the city budgets as well. I mean, they're essentially getting $15,000 in tax money when they weren't paying remotely. That I don't know if that's how it's going to work.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But if there were there were five children that were in a public or public school, they go to a non they go to a program, they go to a

[R9010-276] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-03-30
PREV> Patrick Adrian: is going to go beyond an impact on the school district. It does start affecting the city budgets as well. I mean, they're essentially getting $15,000 in tax money when they weren't paying remotely. That I don't know if that's how it's going to work.
TEXT> But if there were there were five children that were in a public or public school, they go to a non they go to a program, they go to a private. The $15,000 that was coming from the Department of Education through to the Claremont School District would not come to the Claremont School District. It would go to those schools. So that's where the money comes from. It comes from the school district or is diverted, if you will, to another source.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But to your. Point, that family that is now getting $15,000 to send five kids to private school has the means to pay well over $100,000 on top of the

[R9010-282] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (uncertain - cluster onset 'Mr. Iris | 2017-03-30
PREV> Patrick Adrian: about families already doing it in the first place. But it's but it starts coming at the. Yeah. You know, a lot of people that talk about I just want them to kind of understand that this is coming at the expense of local taxpayers.
TEXT> I think I think the misinformation that we're getting is people think they keep hearing choice. And Concord is lobbying this, like everybody will have a choice to send your kids wherever you want them to go, and that there couldn't be anything further from the choice. The choice you will have is to come up with another $20,000. If you can have that choice, then you have a choice. But majority of us there is no choice. In school choice. It's school preference. It's a political term. It's not an educational term.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. There's no there's no private school that doesn't come pay half the tuition. And that's, that's a that's a generous estimate.

[R9020-11] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I move the accept the minutes as written.
TEXT> Second. Thank you. Any other discussion  in favor? I opposed. Thank you. And with that. Open up for citizens comments. Anybody for citizens comments tonight? Okay. Seeing none. Student representatives report, please.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Good evening.

[R9020-16] Unidentified | Student representative (name not on the record) | 2017-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: be like to participate in a music ensemble in Stevens High School. Thanks to the show's music teacher, Miss Klein Stuber and CMS music teacher Tom Smith for coordinating this event. We are gearing up for our spring sports season and practices are being scheduled.
TEXT> We look forward to another exciting season for all of our spring sport athletes. The 2017 Stem Fest took place on March 25th at Newport Middle High School. About 35 CMS students took part in free hands on semi activities led by you and HS Stem, including robotics, building structures and oral spill response. When energy packaging and design and more. A big thank you to our computer teacher, Mr. Petra marks for coordinating this event. Two CMS Spark Club members had projects that place well enough during their local four age presentations to move on to the state competition. Congratulations to Wyatt Davis and Ethan Bellingham. Thank you to science teacher, Mr. McKenna for volunteering to help this club this year and to our for H volunteers. Mistake competition will take place in May. Several CMS band and choir students will be going to the Southwest Middle School District Festival. These students are  Aliya Kennett, Amanda Whitman, and Joshua Oh and Matthew Milton, Alex Gale, and Gabby Szabo. Please check out the CMS website and click on the Principal's News tab to get a weekly update. And that is all I have tonight.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's great. It's got a good stuff happening in the schools. Thank you. Any questions for our student rep? Thanks again. I'll move on to superintendent.

[R9020-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: It's great. It's got a good stuff happening in the schools. Thank you. Any questions for our student rep? Thanks again. I'll move on to superintendent.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you and good evening. I I'm trying to give you a little bit more of a heads up of what I'm going to be talking about, and I put in this night's packet,  my superintendents report at least certain portions of it.  And one certainly was a, an article dealing with Valley Community College pilot program nets early college credits for students. And it was a nice article that talks about  where we are in our working partnership with River Valley Community College and hopefully identifying students currently in grade eight who would become part of a cohort and actually earn during high school college credits. And there is a green sheet at your setting tonight.  And this is a email from the president of River Valley Community College. And on the back is a list of the courses. There's going to be a meeting next week. And if you notice on the third page, as an email from Christine Downing talks about  a meeting to finalize the plans for the integration of River Valley Community College Pathways to Success program for incoming freshmen at Stevens High School, which are our current eighth grade students. So we we are building the partnership, strengthening with the River Valley Community College, but also  a students. And hopefully, if all goes as planned over a period of several years, we'll have students at Stevens High School in several grades being involved with college credit.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And more importantly, being involved in, in this particular case of a profession where there is a very, very high need in in Sullivan County as we focus on on

[R9020-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: about the importance of student voice. And you've heard me talk about this. So he was an opportunity to listen to students. Students? Though adults run a school district, the student voice is an important part of information that we need to take under advisement.
TEXT> And so that's what I look forward with the board permission. Actually, I've already invited him, so it's too late to give me a permission, I guess. But I think it would be worthwhile, however, to have student voice not only about food service, but any of the topics that that the board deals with. And last but not least, I would like to say to you that we are working with the sugar River Education Association and having discussion regarding the 20 1718 school calendar. And we hope to, in the very near future, bring the first draft back to the school board for 2017 2018.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great.

[R9020-30] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: just said. So I'm assuming that there are communities in New Hampshire that have plenty of backspace and plenty of income and that they feel they can afford this. Their representatives represent the feelings of their constituents or these people just following the party line.
TEXT> I think it's a combination of both. But, you know, one of the things I testify by saying, to answer your question, I want to talk about tax rate and zip code. And the tax rate was about $43 per 1000. And the fact that Claremont does not have the revenue base that other communities have. So our tax rates are so high. The revenue base is not offset. So yes, Frank.  There may be communities who would not be impacted by this who do have the revenue based offset this, but we don't have the revenue based offset it. And I close by saying the constitution of the of the state of New Hampshire. In fact, our nation talks about the importance of providing a free and appropriate education for children. That's their right. That's a national right. That's a that's in our Constitution in New Hampshire. But I said, in truth, that doesn't happen. What dictates it is the zip code where a child lives. And that's wrong. And that all goes back to what Tom Kennedy was saying a few weeks ago in this whole Claremont case, that where a child lives shouldn't be a determinant of their education. And it's not about Claremont. This this area of the state, it's about revenue and where it at one time I instead 40, 50 years ago this part of the state was booming, just absolutely booming.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But due to changes and in industry and all, there's there's been a change. But that should not dictate the quality. And the resources, I think the resources and we

[R9020-50] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: investment of health, education or wellness throughout our district. So that's going to be a discussion as well, as well as even talking about cross district academic expectations of competencies that doesn't have competencies in cross district, academic expectation doesn't occur by producing a curriculum.
TEXT> It really has to be done and stayed on by by faculty, by by support of our teachers. So on the back of this are a series of dates. Tonight you can see April 5th is the strategic plan that Joel Sinai is going to present shortly. I recommend that next, at the next meeting,  I have a brief discussion with you about school board responsibilities, and I use the expression constituents versus students. There's a great deal of lobbying that goes on during the budget process. It's not that individuals who wish to speak at board meetings should not be heard. They definitely must be heard. But the board needs to understand the complete picture in order to make these very important decisions. Our recommendations and having you take that for face value really is not fair to you. So we want to provide  a better understanding for you so you will understand where we are and where we are going, and we'll be able to support it or or challenge us, meaning the administration, if you don't understand.  I also welcome if there's any topic that you do not see here that you would like to have more information about, that we add that we're going to be dealing with budget.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We're going to be dealing with numbers and money. So don't misunderstand me, but it's much more than just dollars. Every dollar represents something going on in our district or

[R9020-64] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: That'll cover it.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, I still again, I, I because that this is. I think because you know on a it's sort of a separate I mean my, my interest in why cut and get the port on the, you know, just having a presentation from the early childhood is because it's expanding. So, I mean, it's not it's this is, it's, you know, I ask this beyond just kind of a budgetary kind of looking at it, but wanting to kind of see, you know, where the needs are, what the, you know, the what the challenges are. What, you know, I have some concern not so much with  I don't know if it's so much with the early childhood, but, I, you know, I, I think a lot with the, I think probably the behavioral side of maybe the trauma,  you know, there's certain, I think special needs populations and a big issue, you know, moving them back in district is also having the right kind of  environment and program. That's a big one. Even closer elementary school students that, you know, if we're going to be able to do this, we need to make sure we're we're doing it right and we're doing right by these students as well.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think you're confusing bringing back some of the special ed with the high school. Some of that population the preschool.

[R9020-68] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Wasn't it wasn't out out of district or outsourced.
TEXT> Sorry, I meant I, I thought I transitioned enough. I meant I meant I know the there are two separate things. Really the early. I think I was looking at the early elementary. I just wanted to kind of know more how that was going. And because it also gives us a window into what we are, I think decisions we need to make for students when they come into into the elementary and what we're able to provide and how to go about that. And, you know, I know it's a broad it's a really broad spectrum. But, I was I was thinking in terms of more the K through 12 side of it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I, I will say, Brian, if I may, Number one, special education. It's not it's not number one for any reason other than it's just number one. But I will

[R9020-71] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: So.
TEXT> Can I just ask a clarifying question? Yeah. When you say working, are you referring to, like, we want to know if it's working. Are you referring to, Like, looking at data that shows a decrease in special ed referrals? Looking at data that shows that kids are more kindergarten ready when they leave preschool. Is that what you mean by working? Like comparing some data from.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So we're.

[R9020-74] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Talking years to now and seeing if there's an increase or decrease or if it's maintaining. Is that what you mean by working?
TEXT> Yeah. That's for the that would be for like the pre k pre k things like that. So so one I think my interest in this was you know we we done a lot of revamping. We know we moved out the the early childhood education program from here and expanded, you know, and moved a lot of our programs here into a bigger space. It's, and we're we have a lot. So it's it's a new facility. I, I,  I'm less  knowledgeable about the kind of the whole. I think I've only been here a year, so I don't know how much it's grown, but there's been a lot of it's been a lot of change in transition. So, yeah, it's been a lot of my interest in there. But I think also just sometimes talking to principals, just, it also gives us a good window into the students that we, that we  have that we expect to see. And, you know, and it gives us an ability to kind of prepare and see, you know, you know, what we what you know, what we might need to make for some students. But yeah, I think to your question, I would like to kind of know how how the early childhood part of it's working because the is really important because it's a really for some students, it's a huge, huge, you know, window. It's a critical window for early intervention.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Okay. I think that's a critical point that you bring up actually Patrick, because speaking every dollar we invest on a child 0 to 5, it's a 7 to $17

[R9020-75] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Patrick Adrian: to your question, I would like to kind of know how how the early childhood part of it's working because the is really important because it's a really for some students, it's a huge, huge, you know, window. It's a critical window for early intervention.
TEXT> Okay. I think that's a critical point that you bring up actually Patrick, because speaking every dollar we invest on a child 0 to 5, it's a 7 to $17 return on investment versus a a 1 to $2 return on investment. And knowing what our population is at the youngest ages will help us project out what we need for facilities, for programing, for all of those other things. So looking at our earliest learners will be a critical component in our long term success as a financially stable and responsible institution. So I think that's really so.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. So I really apologize for kind of I trying to to want the two together because they are kind of two different discussions because one is we're trying. You're

[R9020-76] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: us project out what we need for facilities, for programing, for all of those other things. So looking at our earliest learners will be a critical component in our long term success as a financially stable and responsible institution. So I think that's really so.
TEXT> Yeah. So I really apologize for kind of I trying to to want the two together because they are kind of two different discussions because one is we're trying. You're right. It's there is a it's an early intervention opportunity. I guess I look sometimes, you know, big challenge when we're looking for our special needs populations in K through 12 is that, you know, the the big challenge of service in servicing is, you know, we have this sometimes the biggest challenge is trying to kind of provide the environment that they and it's again, it's a broad categories. I mean some students with special needs can do very well with inclusion and then some some  are working on adapting. But it's it sometimes can be a challenge because there's, I think sometimes the needs of our school, of the school and what the objectives of the school don't always kind of, aren't always compatible with what an individual student might need. You know, sometimes we still have difficulties trying to kind of find that balance when the students priorities are behavioral, social, emotional behaviors. And we're trying to kind of have faculty  kind of have faculty on the same page in terms of meeting, you know, trying to prioritize the academics versus, you know, is that the priority for that student at that time? It's things. Like that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The staff will be able to give a good presentation on that special ed discussion. And as far as the preschool program, you know, the staff, there's excellent. I'm sure

[R9020-107] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you very much. Good work.
TEXT> And so, just on the horizon, we learned tonight before I came here around 530, that we received a grant for books for all of our preschoolers to support our read Around town program. So we do a program all summer long, once a week. And  we have now free books to hand to kiddos. And we also have applied for a grant to build an outdoor play space at the newly opened childcare facility with Home Depot. Hopefully we get that. Fingers crossed, because we have already talked with the building and trades program here. They're willing to build the outdoor place if we can get the material. So not only support the child care center, but it would also be a project that the students here can can work on. So there's a lot in there. Horizon I think I did a quick total. We're about $502,000 in additional competitive grants just for this year. Some of those are multiyear, like the 2 million. But we are directionally correct, for sure.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's awesome.

[R9020-112] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Corey.
TEXT> I have a question about your about the daycare. If there were teenagers or high school students that were not able to finish high school, but still within that have left high school, would they be able are we looking to encourage them to come back and offer this this daycare?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We have a lot of options right now. We have a lot of options right now for our students who are, either, you know, some folks aren't a fan of

[R9020-152] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: bit of a history of the tech center. And I don't really mean to to if you've read this, it maybe certainly a little repetitive. This Senate was opened in 1992 as part of a tech center. A career in tech center for region ten.
TEXT> Region ten consists of Claremont, Newport, sunup, and at the time, Fall Mountain and Kearsarge as well. So a five five high schools in our region, the Newport Center opened in 1994, very soon after the center was fully funded by the Department of Education. At the time, the center cost $5.2 million to build. Pretty cheap and compared to the cost today,  both centers, both Claremont and Newport, serves students in region ten, which at the time, as I said, was Claremont, Newport, sunup here, Sergeant Fall Mountain. When the center was built, we signed a 20 year agreement to provide career and technical education services, which at the time by the it was called Vocational Education Services to students in region ten. The 20 year agreement expired in 2012. We're signed an agreement, as did Newport in 2012, for an additional ten years to provide career and technical in 2012, at the time we signed the second agreement, Kearsarge had petitioned the OE to leave the center, claiming transportation difficulties. Fall mountain, from the best I can figure, left sometime around 1998. So from starting out with five high schools in our region, we're basically down to three. In October 2001, the population that we served the high school population was roughly 22,642 students k nine through 12, in the five high schools. The latest figures I got, which is February 2017, there are 1025 high school students in three high school.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: So if you look at our service area, it is declined a lot by a loss of 61% of eligible students to take programing at our center here in Newport.

[R9020-153] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: three. In October 2001, the population that we served the high school population was roughly 22,642 students k nine through 12, in the five high schools. The latest figures I got, which is February 2017, there are 1025 high school students in three high school.
TEXT> So if you look at our service area, it is declined a lot by a loss of 61% of eligible students to take programing at our center here in Newport. In 2001, the enrollment of students at SR TC here in Claremont was 155. This year we have 129. We also should look at the programs. We had eight CTE programs or seven CTE programs in 2001  and in 2017 we have 4.5, and that'll be more obvious. Thank you. As we look at the next slide, wrong way. Okay. If you look at the programs I'm not going to read them to you. But you can certainly see that we had eight CTE programs  in 2001 to 2017. And I guess the pink is not a great color. Looked better on the computer. We basically have four and a half programs building construction, culinary arts, machine tool, plumbing and heating, a full time CTE positions with a teacher. Each accounting  is a  one block.  It's like a half a position and pre-engineering is half a position.  It's a little more complex because the accounting teacher  taught two blocks is teaching two blocks. This semester. She taught one block last semester, and the pre-engineering teacher, which is Scott Pope, was actually in the audience, taught one block of pre-engineering, is teaching one block of engineering this semester.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: And what the whaling program lasts last semester. Okay. So you can see there's been a reduction, instructional staffing. If we look at the employees that are employed by the

[R9020-157] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: leg up when they enter the employment force. The other pathway towards putting students ahead is earning community college credits while in high school. And we do have community college credits. We have community college credits aligned with River Valley Community College. We have community.
TEXT> We have community college with Central Maine Community College so kids can earn college credits in high school. Okay, probably your most familiar and heard most about running start credits. That's the common okay so so those are the three things that we have to meet for the state to approve any new programs that we put. In fact, I got to move up because I can't see the New Hampshire New program application specifies and this is a quote. Each program, each proposed program must be developed as a pathway of study from secondary to post-secondary education. I must offer a minimum of three college credits. So that's a requirement. So we can come in with the world's greatest program. But if we can articulate to colleges the state of home to prove it. Yes. Thank you. So let's look at the survey a little bit. I gave a survey with a Google doc. It was put on line. Kids at Stevens High School took it. Students at unity took it.  And students at CMS took the survey. And it was it was fairly extensive. It was a survey designed to establish what their interest was. Basically, I looked at all CTE programs that were looked that were offered in the state of New Hampshire.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: I listed them down. It was a little bit more involved in this, and there was a survey in the pack that you got several weeks ago. The study, okay,

[R9020-158] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: it. And students at CMS took the survey. And it was it was fairly extensive. It was a survey designed to establish what their interest was. Basically, I looked at all CTE programs that were looked that were offered in the state of New Hampshire.
TEXT> I listed them down. It was a little bit more involved in this, and there was a survey in the pack that you got several weeks ago. The study, okay, looked at the programs that were available, and students then selected their first, second and third choice, and I waited their choice. So if a student took a took, let's say, culinary arts as their first choice, we awarded five points. If a student took culinary arts, the second choice, I awarded three points and it was a third choice, I ordered it. I awarded at one point. So clearly I was able to identify where the most interest, not only by what students voted for, but where they positioned that that class in how badly they wanted it. As you can see, the number one choice was culinary Arts, with a weighted score of 202. Cosmetology came, which we offer right here in Claremont. That's what C stands for right there.  Cosmetology came in at 150 points, Agriculture and Forestry and 126.  And auto and diesel tech came in at 116. Now auto tech is offered at Newport. Diesel tech is not. But I lumped them together because clearly a student that had an interest in auto might also be interested in diesel.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: In fact, they would love to get there by career clusters so that something like electricity, electrical trades, plumbing and heating. What kind of lumped together in the same thing?

[R9020-159] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: and Forestry and 126. And auto and diesel tech came in at 116. Now auto tech is offered at Newport. Diesel tech is not. But I lumped them together because clearly a student that had an interest in auto might also be interested in diesel.
TEXT> In fact, they would love to get there by career clusters so that something like electricity, electrical trades, plumbing and heating. What kind of lumped together in the same thing? Okay, the interesting discussion. The interesting thing one of my teachers said, and he shall remain nameless and knows who he is. He looked at what students in tier one and by the way, sent this up in tears. So we have an idea where the most interest was. You looked at tier one, he said. Of course, high school kids want to eat, they want to look good, they like to be outside and they want a nice car. And you know, that really speaks a little bit to what the way high school kids kind of make choices in electric. Electric, we can say, oh my gosh, there are great jobs in firefighting and fire science. And yet I was blown away to see that there wasn't much interest in it. I can't tell you why it wasn't much interesting. I can't tell you why robotics, which gets tons of press. There was not a big expression of it. I truly believe that kids think what's going to be fun today?
NEXT> Joel Snyder: And that's where guidance is a key factor in in guiding kids to to career and technical education. Because without that guidance, kids are going to default to what they

[R9020-160] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: wasn't much interest in it. I can't tell you why it wasn't much interesting. I can't tell you why robotics, which gets tons of press. There was not a big expression of it. I truly believe that kids think what's going to be fun today?
TEXT> And that's where guidance is a key factor in in guiding kids to to career and technical education. Because without that guidance, kids are going to default to what they think is easy, what they think is fun. And there's nothing wrong with any of those careers. I'm not saying that, but I can't believe, you know, 80% of kids want that and only 20% want everything else that's on that list. So, I mean, we can certainly do a dive into that data some more for you, the individuals. We didn't disaggregate the data by grade. And there's a whole lot of things we could look at to delve into that data. But there wasn't time to do that for this survey okay. So the second part of choosing what programs will be offered was to look at the labor market data. And as I said, I looked at the New Hampshire and some Vermont labor market data for New Hampshire. There's an organization called the New Hampshire Sector Partnership, which is a pretty interesting group. And actually, they spoke one of my director's meetings, probably back in November.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: Okay. And they have studied where the market and where the jobs in New Hampshire are going, where the needs are. And if you see. They've identified manufacturing, hospitality, health

[R9020-163] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: can not only articulate the river valley because you can see that pre engineering articulates Nht lakes region. I'm not going to read them to you, but there are several other articulation possibilities of a student does not want to go to just River Valley.
TEXT> Okay. So why these programs okay. So pre-engineering has offered excellent career opportunities. We tend to think of engineering as being predominantly a four year degree. Not necessarily. So their engineering technician positions that exist that pay fairly well, where students can continue on to a four year college after their two year college, or they can work and not go beyond their two year degree in pre-engineering. We have a certified teacher on staff to teach our pre-engineering. Scott Pope Scott is a certified project lead the way teacher. From what I understand, Christine Downing is also certified to teach pre-engineering, so that's another possibility. We have most of the equipment on hand right now. We wouldn't have to spend a lot of money to purchase it. Here's an important key is that we can coordinate with Newport, because pre-engineering is kind of like a funnel. Everybody takes the base of classes, and then when you get up higher in the funnel, maybe I'm using it the wrong way around. But as you move up the specialty course, you have less and less. So for example, the specialty courses might be information technology and pre-engineering, it might be biotechnology, it might be computer integrated manufacturing, it might be CAD.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: Okay. And students tend to branch off in where their interest lies. While both Claremont and Newport can have enough students for the basic classes. The funnel gets very smaller

[R9020-164] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: using it the wrong way around. But as you move up the specialty course, you have less and less. So for example, the specialty courses might be information technology and pre-engineering, it might be biotechnology, it might be computer integrated manufacturing, it might be CAD.
TEXT> Okay. And students tend to branch off in where their interest lies. While both Claremont and Newport can have enough students for the basic classes. The funnel gets very smaller at the upper classes. So if, for example, if we offer computer integrated manufacturing, Newport doesn't need to offer because it's not going to be as much demand for it. So Newport can send kids to us, we can save kids for CAD in Newport. So it allows us to be a little bit more flexible than our programing. There's a lot of potential industry and educational partners, Will and engineering, which we now have a partnership right now for Intro to Manufacturing class would fit right in Dartmouth College, Ruger, Timken are all possibilities to partner us with us in the pre engineering teacher prep. We know that in the state of New Hampshire, teachers are retiring. There's a baby boomers are leaving the profession okay there's a need to refill it. Teacher prep can be taught by any existing certified teacher in Claremont. We don't have to go train somebody, or we don't even have to hire somebody. We can have somebody maybe teach it for one block a day while they're doing the rest of their schedule.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: If that works out, it might not require an additional hiring position. We have the pre-K program right here at the tech center, and the K through a schools can

[R9020-167] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: could share that position with Stevens High School. If they can let one of their counselors go to spend some time here, that might be a good way to slowly ease into it. You know, the if the funds aren't necessarily available to hire somebody.
TEXT> But in terms of programs,  the same year we would implement the pre-engineering class, again, minimal minimal equipment to buy the following year for the September 2019 class, implement the teacher preparation, and in July 2020 implement the computer repair and networking classes. And these can be. This isn't written in stone. I mean we can wherever we can see the need or where students press the interest at the time. We can introduce those programs. Looking at costs, there are two ways we can handle costs we can handle through the local budget we can handle through Perkins money,  the local budget. I looked at what the potential what the possibilities of Sally would be, the range of salary. Would it be ranging from somebody on step one never taught before bachelor's degree. That's it. All the way to somebody that was being hired and a top step, which would be, I think a degree 15 years experience. And then also I add the cost of medical plans in that. And again, the low end is somebody that's got an individual plan, the high end is somebody that's got a family plan. And so that that so the range there will go from for all for each position will range from $67,431 to $104,045 per teaching position.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: If we hire a new person, bring new staff in. Okay, that's just to give you an idea. And those numbers are based on the SRA contract with 1617 and

[R9020-171] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: or these things right down here all paid for with Perkins money, not local money. So really local money will be salary and benefits. That's it. And why won't can we use Perkins money for salary and benefits? Because we don't have enough to pay.
TEXT> We don't get enough Perkins money to pay even the cost of one teacher. Unless we bring. Maybe if we bring somebody into low range at 60, we get roughly $76,000. And of that 76,000, we get in Perkins there. There's money that we have to spend on existing programs and professional development. So that wouldn't leave us enough money to pay for even one staff position. So I just want to be clear, I looked at it, try to figure out a way to do it, but so that's the way. So there's been certainly a lot of discussion that community about where underutilized. Okay. And so full utilization of this tax center is really depend upon depends upon student awareness of the careers  that are available out there, student awareness of the programs we offer their interest, offering things that they're interested in taking, and that will equal demand for our programs and a fully functional, fully utilize career and technical center. I guess I'll take questions. Yes.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I have a few. Is that okay?

[R9020-177] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, just a little bit. Sure. On the tier two, you are these listed in the order of what they preferred, like most preferred to Lee's preferred.
TEXT> So I'm going to give you an example that. Do you see that. Yeah. So. Let's just take this I know I know Brian sitting here to do this. Let's take firefighting. Firefighting scored for okay. So that means it was nobody's first choice because it would have earned five points. So conceivably it could have earned it could have been four last choices for somebody or in one point each. Or it could have been somebody's second choice, which are in three points. And then one point for being elasticity. I don't know if that's the answer. We look at culinary arts, which had 202. I can't tell you how many first choices from this. I have the information. I can give it to you if you want. I can email us you if you like, but that 202 doesn't mean 202 students voted for culinary arts or selective color in arts, it means the demand for culinary arts on the scale that I created brought it up the Jordan two.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So. With that said, so the choices that you chose were computer repair and networking, pre-engineering and teacher prep. And those were one, two, three, four. Computer repair and networking

[R9020-182] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: offered Newport and Pre-Engineering, Newport and Claire, I just want to say generally the policy in in, in the 20 year agreement that we assigned originally and the ten year agreement was signed in 2012, says we cannot duplicate programs. Newport can duplicate our programs.
TEXT> We can't unless the program is oversubscribed. And there are more kids in Claremont, for example, that can't get into Newport programs. Then we can duplicate the program here. As long as there's no duplicate, as long as there's no as long as it's not more more demand than there is supply, right? We technically can't do it because we'd be basically steal in case away from there. Right.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you. I just wanted to know.

[R9020-190] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: Hire somebody that had a master's degree in order to grammar.
TEXT> So could. You just tease that out for her on the difference between articulation and learning. Start deletion is when kids can go to a to a college and just get credit for that.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: So articulation sort of provides advanced standing. No, it's in alliance and just jumping in from around here because I always make those as well. Articulation is a lot is

[R9020-193] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: You don't need to.
TEXT> Take it again. You don't need to take again. But it's not a transferable credit. Running start requires typically a payment of $150 per program.  Well, though there are, scholarships have been able to cost students $75 to earn three credits, which is one heck of a bargain.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: For sure.

[R9020-197] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: question. Yeah, sometimes there are, but the the Perkins grant, those sound super awesome. I'm just wondering if there's any, you know, sometimes you get a grint, and then ten years later, you have to pay a certain amount back. Is there anything attached to.
TEXT> Perkins Grants Entitlement grant? It's given to the state. It's federal money. The state administers it to both the career and ticket centers and the community college system. The state of New Hampshire gets $6 million in Perkins funds right now. They say our share is 76,000 a mere pins, because Manchester School of Technology gets like 450,000. But it's based on a lot of factors. There's a formula, it has to do with number of students in the community and the poverty levels. Free and reduced price lunch, but ours is 76,000. Okay. And that's pretty much this law. If I, if I write the grant and I submit it and they don't like it, it comes back to me. I make the changes, I fix it until until we get it right. Okay.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thanks for being patient with me.

[R9020-206] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: we were looking at putting that program in here because we could not accommodate. But then they're having a difficult time finding construction. Frank, you can help me out on this. This instructor you do have instructor. Okay. You know, they struggle to find. Yeah.
TEXT> So so is there a reason why we I know you said we can't technically duplicate, but could we. Because there's only eight kids allowed per.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The LNA. There's three, three sections of health science and technology. The and is one of the three sections the others can take.

[R9020-211] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I guess I'm just trying to see that.
TEXT> There's two kids going from Claremont to.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Okay, now.

[R9020-214] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> I mean, are they do you think if there were ability to offer it to more kids, that if we had the room.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We're entitled to more seats than Newport? I believe in that. Right. Because of our population here.

[R9020-233] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: Right. It's certainly more accurate, I would assume. Right.
TEXT> I would think it'd be you'd get a better sense of what their aptitudes are and through and there's a variety. There's there's I don't know how many interest inventories are Navy on since a lot. So somebody could sample them. Pick one. Everyone does the same. Have the advisors come forward with that data? I think that would give you some. I think that that would result in some of those other things that we think should be closer to the top, probably would be closer to the top with that data, rather than kids perceptions of, as you described it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Ali.

[R9020-253] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I mean, have you spoke with can or.
TEXT> I have not spoken with Kim am cam because again, I was typically following what the state rule was. The interesting thing there was some discussions. I was approached by one of our maintenance people here about offering welding. He was a welder. And I did, and I said, as I said that we can't offer programing less. We're there's no space for Stevens kids. So I then asked the director at the Newport Tech Center, how many students  do you have in your in your welding program? And she said, none. No one from Stevens. I said, how many students have you had in the last couple of years? Said, I'll tell you what, I'll give you the last five years. None.  It's not one of insufficient capacity for Stevens students, it seems. It's one  of getting the word out. It's one of marketing the welding program to Stevens.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Is it because it's full? Yeah.

[R9020-258] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: There, there. Welding is not in the space that that was originally before it was ag mechanics. And they converted into water. So they're in a very small space at Newport.
TEXT> But you're saying it's full, right. So it wouldn't even be an option if kids wanted to do that. Maybe they know it's not an option. So they.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: They don't.

[R9020-262] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by grant-repor | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Know what they have.
TEXT> The Claremont School District are entitled to a certain number of those seats. So  if students wanted to take that class.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: They.

[R9020-268] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: What I think.
TEXT> We all students prior to Newport. So if there were Newport, if there were requests from Stevens, they pretty much be assured if they only want to 3 to 5 seats believe Newport schedule later than us. But if there's no requests.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That's.

[R9020-272] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: certainly certainly something that we should, in my opinion, explore further and understand better why students are accessing it. And what we can do to potentially correct that, because we have a host of employers in this community that are looking for that skill set.
TEXT> What I hope is going to happen if. Starting next week, the Stevens High School Scheduling Committee is going, a group of educators, staff within our district are going to be working throughout the spring and then during 20 1718 to implement a schedule in the fall 2018. And it is my hope  that one of the outcomes of that scheduling will provide greater access to tech center programs. Because I think there has been when I in my six years,  we're making progress, but we still are not as Stevens High School and a tech center are not. It's not as fluid as I would like to see. And we're making progress. We're working toward that. We've even had some discussion. I've met with all the tech center faculty and Joel a month or two ago, and,  there are so many different opportunities that students could at least have exposure to, to become more aware of about what the trades are, even if they have rigid plans to go to a four year Ivy League school still having access and exposure.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And right now it only occurs if it's a fit for their schedule. And that's more of a scheduling issues versus a student need issue. So I that's my hope

[R9020-277] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: A year okay. So they know what the programs are, what's here, what's Newport. And then beyond that, what college you may be able to go to after to continue that career. So that's happening.
TEXT> You know, my standard talk when I talk to eighth graders or ninth graders is, you know, really say the same thing every year. It's kind of number one, take a class, try it. If you don't like it, that's fine. It's more important to know what you don't like than what you do. Like office number two, you say, well, I don't want to go into the class. I want to be an architect  and say, wouldn't it be nice if you knew how a building was built, if you were going to be an architect and had a hands on feel for it? So I try to just broaden their ideas of what careers are. It's not a job, it's a career. And so we're actually we haven't received them yet, but we work with an organization was providing us with these graphics that go in the classroom called Career Trees. And it's a picture of a tree and the student gets a leaf, let's say take culinary. And the student says, I want to be a line cook. And so he writes a line cook and he puts it on a tree. And I think it says, I want to be an executive chef. And he puts it on the top.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: But at the base of the tree and his roots are the academic skills, the math, the language arts that you need to have the tree be strong. Okay. And

[R9020-278] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: culinary. And the student says, I want to be a line cook. And so he writes a line cook and he puts it on a tree. And I think it says, I want to be an executive chef. And he puts it on the top.
TEXT> But at the base of the tree and his roots are the academic skills, the math, the language arts that you need to have the tree be strong. Okay. And so we want kids to see a bigger picture of education, of career, of jobs and then of careers. And so we're working towards that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I have another question. And that is what about post secondary late schooling for example. If is it is it something that this tech center, for instance, let's say

[R9020-279] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: are the academic skills, the math, the language arts that you need to have the tree be strong. Okay. And so we want kids to see a bigger picture of education, of career, of jobs and then of careers. And so we're working towards that.
TEXT> So I have another question. And that is what about post secondary late schooling for example. If is it is it something that this tech center, for instance, let's say we gather a group of people in the community who want to become welders who have gets or diplomas, but there's no facility to train them. And, and then you partner up with Can-Am and say, well, we can do a ten week or 12 week course that will certify you to go in as a, as a welder. So,  you know, you could trade off. So,  for example, I became a tin smith at Bath Iron Works and a welder through welfare to work instead of going on welfare. I went through a, I believe it was a 16 week course, and every night they offered the child care. And I went to school basically in, in a, in a tin shop kind of manufacturing, but it was in a tech center. Is that something that that we could do in the community that, I mean, with the community with, you know, the school, is that something that the tech center could be used for other other than as for the school.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: If we wanted to train machinists or, you know, precision machine people. We have that lab right here. We have a teacher right here, sitting right here in the audience.

[R9020-285] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Wrap it up in a bit.
TEXT> Yeah. It's a two, questions. One so going back to the computer repair network and, So I'm just, just looking with, the, the courses that already was kind of proposing for the pilot program.  Now, I know that and I know that. So we, you know, we we cover the repair. And a lot of their fall classes are computer programing. I guess my concern is and is the networking side. And I know that you talked about I guess, you know, we can bring it. It might be the structuring of it. You might be able to do more hands on with that here than over there. I want to make sure. But but I'm also looking that springs the spring schedule for the, for the community college pilot. And there's just a lot of overlap with the networking side of it. And I just want to know how we're going to do this, where it hits. I don't want to be losing kids from this program to go to the other, because, I mean, so even if there is a distinction, it's it looking up to market, I mean, does didn't seem like we're going to have it like it's that concern that they either some kids might be more inclined to go into the community college pilot program that you.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: So I don't know, the college level program, not the one that's being offered to Claremont, the Newport students, the one that Doctor Meyer is talking about, that the full

[R9020-286] Joel Snyder | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (name as stated | 2017-04-05
PREV> Patrick Adrian: if there is a distinction, it's it looking up to market, I mean, does didn't seem like we're going to have it like it's that concern that they either some kids might be more inclined to go into the community college pilot program that you.
TEXT> So I don't know, the college level program, not the one that's being offered to Claremont, the Newport students, the one that Doctor Meyer is talking about, that the full blown community college board was not supposed to start, in my understanding, until it's the fall, is what he told me. So if anything, if we will, we won't be ready to provide that. So I don't see that as being a problem for a couple of years down the road. And if anything  it would they get running start credit so they wouldn't have to take college courses. I don't think that will affect us. I think it affect the college more than us. If we prepare kids to to enter the college. Okay.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: The last question, I know, I think I asked you this, but clarification other thing was with the teacher preparation because I, I see that, you know, part of it,

[R9020-287] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Joel Snyder: road. And if anything it would they get running start credit so they wouldn't have to take college courses. I don't think that will affect us. I think it affect the college more than us. If we prepare kids to to enter the college. Okay.
TEXT> The last question, I know, I think I asked you this, but clarification other thing was with the teacher preparation because I, I see that, you know, part of it, one of the. The reasonings for, for is that we have the pre-K  program at the, at this center. I guess, you know, looking at the curriculum now, I, I honestly feel. It would be ideal for, I mean, the the curriculum is pretty, you know, it's it's very appropriate for like, you know, K-2 I'm going to say K-2 eight, you know, just because we're aren't you know, high school wouldn't be. But  but, I, I can't say it was that for pre-K. I mean, it's like people might differ based on philosophy. I honestly don't feel that that's appropriate curriculum when we're dealing with pre-K  students. But, you know, I'm going to say it again, you know, I understand why we I understand that there was a kind of a need of the district for space as well. But if we're saying if if we also said, like last year, one of the arguments for the pre education program discouraging them was that they  don't have that it's not a viable. It's it's right now it's not a viable career as far as like the funding sources.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The Department of Education, Patrick for two years has been telling us the program should be discontinued. The use of this tech center for that program is no longer appropriate.

[R9020-295] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: elementary school staff. Some of them don't have assistance. They don't have a pair in their class. Having somebody that could actually help in that classroom is something that could help as well. So I'm very surprised we haven't begun already the teacher prep program.
TEXT> And that said that said, and this what I think a pre K program would be good for, for I would say for teachers is we're doing like doing a student observation in order to get some background and or learners that I do understand. It does have that role. I just think that, yeah, I agree with you. It's  I wanted to kind of make sure that, you know, our plan was to kind of do a mentoring kind of a student teaching inside the inside the,  the K through, you know, I would say for the secondary, I know that high school would not be an option even though that and again, middle school is a so, you know, the choir taste, you know for, for teachers. But that that is for secondary people that students are interested in that secondary level, that middle school. You know, it's not it's different from high school. But, you know, that could be an option as well.
NEXT> Joel Snyder: Just to clarify, the state competency document defines it as teacher preparation, multiple levels. I kind of let that multiple levels out. But that implies that it's kind of pre-K

[R9020-308] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Mike O'Neill' [223]; sur | 2017-04-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Carol, is this yours? Okay. Thank you. This this was provided by Carol Gregory. That says food service for 517. There is a schedule that is being passed around. Now, Michael Neal will speak to you in regard to the awarding of food service contract.
TEXT> There has been discussion. Several discussions concerning an RFP food service. What I did here is I put together I'm gonna start at the bottom with 221, which is a removal of the RFP that was sent out in as required by the state proposal will be evaluated by a committee against the following criteria with assigned wages indicated. Each area of the evaluation should be addressed in detail in the proposal. And as you see, many people think of this as the budget being the only the only real impact here. But what happens is we put a committee together and we way a lot more than budget. And a lot of these as you go down through the and I read through these, you're going to see a lot of these are things we've talked about experience references in service capability counting and reporting systems, financial condition personnel management and training, innovation promotion, marketing and merchandizing of the school lunch program, which is key  to a lot of this, involvement of student staff, patrons in the community, menus, concepts of service, commodities, food quality and potion size.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Recommended staffing, clear methodology on return of discounts, rebates and credits, code of conduct and procedures. So what I've done is put together a schedule to have vendors come in

[R9020-316] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Mike O'Neill' [223]; sur | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: So so it appears like we probably have three vendors that are that may be interested.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean they might even before I I've been really digging doing some digging. And there's, there's a couple more that the state is allowing to do this. They're doing more stuff on the other side of the state. But certainly competition in this market is a good thing. And certainly brings forward, you know, and, and some of the benefits they have is the number of districts they're working in, you know, they cannot certainly see more, you know, and do more with, with what they're doing with the menus,  you know, and as part of the proposal, everybody's required to give you menu, menu examples. You know, what they would do to, to promote and to, to market and merchandise the school lunch program, which, you know, some things could be tried before you buy it, kind of things, where they, they'll try a new thing and they'll, they'll give it away for free for a couple of days and give everybody a chance to, to kind of get some input on it. Or they bring in guest chefs and they'll have a chef from a restaurant come in and do some cooking one day, and they'll try new recipes and stuff like that. And those are all, you know, great promotions that bring kids to more, more excitement and much programing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: When are we going to know on the other proposals.

[R9020-353] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-04-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Perfect. Thank you.
TEXT> I think that's just invading, late. At high school. Student. Perhaps. Miriam or.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yeah, we could certainly. You know, I think that that's that's a great idea to to try to.

[R9020-374] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-04-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Not good at.
TEXT> We've got, three board policies for third read. We've got a c e practical safeguards, nondiscrimination on the basis of handicapped or disability. EBBC emergency care and first aid and I h be a a  evaluation requirements for children with specific learning disabilities.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: These are before you. As the third.

[R9020-394] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> I opposed and our school board policy for secondary. The lead screening. Like Doctor Goodwin said, the only changes we had were adding pre-K for the requirements for lead testing as well as kindergarten, just to be sure that kids entering the district were getting that test. Have a motion to approve that?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So moved.

[R9020-400] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: of that information in looking at variables that might be impacting the student's performance in school, having the information of a lead screening, they're available. And as far as responding to a kid's needs, appropriate, appropriately and accurately, make this absolutely essential and valuable tool.
TEXT> And, you know, I'm also looking at it, if we can sensitize the entire community and have the resources available to reduce a child's access to lead, we will see, according to the research, we will see children, the reduction of children with challenges will coincide with that increased awareness over time. That's a real travesty of this is that unintentionally and I my first home with with a little baby was a Victorian down in Massachusetts at home that was built in the 1830s. I guarantee that I was sanding lead. I could guarantee that. And so  and I was unaware.  So, the good news is that we're going to really enhance the awareness for the benefit of, of generations of children.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: This is a great policy.

[R9041-14] Marion Lovett | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (uncer | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: All in favor? Aye. Opposed? And one abstention. Our student representatives report. Good evening.
TEXT> Good evening. So, here's a little countdown. We have 30 more school days left and 50 more days in total. So I don't know if you can tell, but I'm a little excited about summer.  From Stevens. Congratulations to Tyler Sullivan, who plays first place in the Southwest Regional Bicentennial New Hampshire State House poster contest for the high school category. Tyler will receive $50, and his poster will now be entered into the state level poster contest. Judging for this will occur in the beginning of June. Winning posters at the state level will be on display for one year at the state House in Concord. Good luck Tyler. On the 13th, I conducted the seat belt challenge. The seat Belt Challenge is an opportunity to explain the importance of using safety belts, and also demonstrates how quick and easy it is to buckle up. It will help students to develop a habit that could save their lives. This is a statewide event put up by Buckle Up New Hampshire through the state's Office of Highway Safety and the Injury Prevention Center of Dartmouth-Hitchcock. The event, held at Stevens, had six teams of four to compete. The challenge begins with four people sitting buckles in a car.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: A whistle blows, then the student has to get out of the car, move clockwise, and send next position while buckling their belt without touching the outside of the car.

[R9041-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: That's all. Thank you. Any questions for our student representative? Perfect. Thanks so much. Superintendents report.
TEXT> Thanks and good evening. There's a lot of great things to be talking about tonight.  I think the agenda hopefully, is self-explanatory. One thing that is not in your packet that I'd like to share with you, that I received a memo from the sugar River Education Association yesterday. They are very interested in beginning collective bargaining for the 2018 2019 school year. I'm very interested in starting that process with them as well. Traditionally, we do it  in starting the fall.  Last year we attempted to start in the spring and it didn't happen. This year it's happening. And so I want to talk to you at a future date about who's going to represent the school board with collective bargaining with the sugar River Education Association. In your packet there, there are several pages  regarding Gear Up New Hampshire, gaining early awareness and readiness for undergraduate programs.  Claremont is one of a of a cohort school district, and our seventh grade students are one of a cohort of 505 seventh grade students that will participate  in this discretionary grant program. And the purpose of this is to increase the number of low income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in post-secondary education.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: As you can see in your packet, Berlin Middle School, Claremont Middle School, Franklin Middle School, Laconia middle school, Lisbon Regional School, Stewart and Community School in Whitefield Elementary School

[R9041-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: seventh grade students are one of a cohort of 505 seventh grade students that will participate in this discretionary grant program. And the purpose of this is to increase the number of low income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in post-secondary education.
TEXT> As you can see in your packet,  Berlin Middle School, Claremont Middle School, Franklin Middle School, Laconia middle school, Lisbon Regional School, Stewart and Community School in Whitefield Elementary School  are the beneficiaries of this  program.  It basically an early intervention in college awareness program. What's exciting about this is that this is not another layer. This is not another thing. This fits beautifully with one of our academic achievement goals, which is to  expose students to the opportunities  long before they enter high school. Yeah, long before they enter high school  opportunities meeting, whether it be  a a post-high school training, post-high school, junior college, community college, two year college, four year college,  or perhaps even in the trades. But what critical is that  students become much more aware of the opportunities, including  financial aid, including the fact that,  conversation of post-high school education may not be common in the home, but still, it's something that they should be made very much aware of. And when you look through this packet, you can see that at least 68% of the jobs in New Hampshire will require some post-secondary education in three years.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So the days of a student, graduating from high school and being successful with a with a employment, I'm not saying they won't be, but the chances are greatly enhanced.

[R9041-21] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: or college, community college, or additional skill set. And that 75% of those who apply will be accepted and attend. But that doesn't happen by guidance counselors at the high school working closely with our students. It's a district wide initiative also in your packet.
TEXT> And so more information is coming about that. Also when you pack at River Valley Community College, one of our academic achievement goals, again, is that we increase the awareness and application and acceptance to post-high school  experiences for our graduates and members of the community. College met with Stevens High School and middle school administration and staff last week. And the purpose is to identify current, current eighth grade students who will next year become a member of a cohort. And if all goes as planned over a four year period in high school with dual credit, they would be close to  accomplishing an associate degree, two years of college associate degree with their high school diploma.  And we're also looking at the possibility of financial assistance. So money should not be an obstacle more. There was going to be in May early May 2nd week in May, I believe a parent night and student night at Valley Community College for this year's eighth grade students. More information will be forthcoming once that's finalized. But just imagine a high school student graduate with a Stevens High School diploma and as earned, a River Valley Community College Instructional technology credits, and perhaps even to the point where they have an associate degree. And last but certainly not least,  Stevens High School Schedule Committee. I've listed the members of the administration and faculty who are part of of this committee.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: This was part of the collective bargaining agreement and a memorandum of understanding that was signed by the school board and the sugar River Education Association back in January of

[R9041-27] Marion Lovett | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (uncer | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent?
TEXT> I would just like to piggyback off of what he said for a track. I know five student athletes have already made states, and out of the 25 members we have, that's pretty good statistic considering we've only had three meets.  Also, Key Club delivered Easter baskets to the elders and the community, and just seeing their faces light up after knowing that someone was thinking about them on Easter. It's just a great thing. So those were the two things I forgot to mention. So I'm good now.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Good one. Can you describe how the current schedule is, is, impeding access to, the tech classes courses?

[R9041-39] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: To kind of piggyback on that because that's what I was thinking about.
TEXT> The scheduling issue when we had the tech centers at work. People come in and I said in on, on one of the interviews of a couple of kids, the issue really was about those embedded credits. You just can't be in English and at the tech Center at the same time. And I believe we're working on potentially having if we can get the embedding credits with the tech center, is there anything that should eliminate a lot of the scheduling issues, just because it won't have to compete with classes? They'll be able to come here and get their English credit and still take the Tech Center class. So the embedded credits is going to be the huge piece of the puzzle if we get that right.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I think that's what I was trying to get at, because I do understand the need for for having to fix this schedule. And I just I was just

[R9041-42] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: playing out different options of retooling, how they provide the courses to increase the access. So the model we now have is going to become soft as we prepare for 1819, and we're not going to be restricted as if it was a hard concrete.
TEXT> And by the way, I do agree agree about I think looking at the the of the college piece, I, I would be curious to know,  I guess why I've talked to some parents where they've had concerns whether they're their student transitioning to the first year of college and math being an issue. And I don't know whether all the parents who have experienced this frustration have where their child kind of, you know, did apparently did well here in terms of their grades and math and then ended up having to kind of take like a remedial level college class. There are some parents feel  not I can't this may not speak for all of them, but some of them felt the schedule was they they feel the schedule as a problem because they were not having that continuity in math or not having that continuity in writing. So one way or the other, we'd need to I we have to fix this.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Anything else for the superintendent? Pretty good. We'll open it up for citizens. Comments.

[R9041-46] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 resident; TLC Family Resource Center and Rura | 2017-04-19
PREV> Lisa Draper: gender revolution. Some of you may have seen the cover of the National Geographic magazine, and Katie Couric chaired a special on the topic. So we brought together a number of community members for that purpose. We've launched a series of educational monthly discussion groups.
TEXT> There's a flier for the next one coming up in Charlestown next month. The first one we held was actually this month at Newport Middle High School. It was kind of them to host it, and the speaker was a genderqueer sociology professor from Colby Sawyer. Her topic was  gender roles in schools and how schools reinforce heterosexuality.  We've started a trans and gender non-conforming support group for ages 18. Plus, we'll be taking the ever larger members  in terms of the club is just growing. It's really nice to see the gay straight Trans Alliance at Stevens High School is a very active and vibrant group. They will be coming with us to the Glisten Prom. Out loud. Our state's only inclusive  statewide prom that's coming up next  Sunday evening. And I'm so grateful to the district for providing a school bus once again to transport those  students, and also for collaborating this time with Newport Middle High School, so that they're students who don't yet have the benefit of a GSA can also come with us. So that's super exciting.  We're launching a caring adult peer support group. Caring adult means parent or guardian, or anyone raising or supporting  a gender nonconforming child of any age.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: And I think it's really important to emphasize the caring adult, because often the person who is the caring adult is not the parent or guardian. So that's an important

[R9041-50] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 resident; TLC Family Resource Center and Rura | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: Quick question. You mentioned that the problem that you're going to go to is the only inclusive problem in the state. Is our problem not inclusive?
TEXT> Our problem is not inclusive. I'm sorry to say. We still do things like King and Queen of the prom.  You are legally entitled to bring your same sex date to the prom, but it is very still.  It is. We certainly won't turn people away. I think what's different about this one is it is a chemical free, supervised. And by supervised I mean that all the Glisson volunteers like me  have been background checked and fingerprinted and all that stuff.  Evening. Where 13 to 20 year olds can meet in a supervised setting. Other people like them who won't judge them. So even though you could come to the Stevens High School prom and some of our gender nonconforming students, I'm sure will, this is a different environment because everybody there is an ally or is a member of the community. So it's just a little bit different. And students do come from all across the state. We hosted in and hosted in Manchester every year. This is its fifth year  and probably the biggest one yet. Any other questions?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Is there anything I can do to help out? Just don't hesitate to ask. Okay.

[R9041-52] Lisa Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 resident; TLC Family Resource Center and Rura | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Is there anything I can do to help out? Just don't hesitate to ask. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you very much. And it was wonderful to have you come to hear the students at Stevens talk to their faculty. I think they were incredibly articulate, and I think the faculty has been wonderfully responsive. There are more rainbow stickers going up, and the students will actually be,  observing the day of silence, which is one of the Glisson days of action in the annual school calendar. Tomorrow, since they do want to be able to be out there in the community doing their service work on Friday when the rest of the country will be observing it. So thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thanks for your work. Appreciate it. Anybody else for citizens comments? Seeing no one. Thank you. We'll move on to our first discussion item. Food service. Students perspectives.

[R9041-54] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thanks for your work. Appreciate it. Anybody else for citizens comments? Seeing no one. Thank you. We'll move on to our first discussion item. Food service. Students perspectives.
TEXT> I'm very pleased to introduce you and Claremont community to  Prescott Herzog.  Prescott is a eighth grade student. And  as you can see in the agenda.  He is also the State of New Hampshire representative for Fuel Up to play 60, as well as to discuss the the middle schools  involvement with this club, as well as his comments representing the student body of Claremont Middle School  on on food service. Prescott, what have you heard about the board's interest in looking at a food service program? Reached out to me.  When he reached out to me, I immediately reached back to him and invited him to to attend. So, Prescott, thank you for being here tonight. Thank you for representing the students at Claremont Middle School. Welcome.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Oh, thank you for having me. To begin with, just to give you guys a clear on what fuel play 60 is fuel to play 60 is an in-school nutrition

[R9041-56] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: inside of the school as well. That can be sponsored by grants, which are given around by the dairy councils throughout the entire nation. New England Dairy Council is ours. And so most of those plays can happen to the schools for completely no cost.
TEXT> Top students in the program attend the regional and the national summits, where they learn leadership skills and also really have a great time, because I was there at the last one at Purdue University. And that was an absolutely amazing experience. Now my fields play 60 stories. In seventh grade, I was elected as student body member for  my old school in Minnesota. And at one of the requirements is, is you have to take  if you're part of student council, you have to be in another club besides student council to give more student representation. And since 2016 was new to my that my old school too. I decided to join that and I in. Last March, I  applied to go to the 2016 National Summit as a paid to attend  and  I was  I got  I applied and I was accepted. So I went to the field 2016 National Summit at Purdue University for four days. Then afterwards, there was a speech on the Wednesday night that we were there on why school meals matter, and I was part of the top three who made it on that. So I was invited to go to the USDA and speak in front of 50 plus members, as well as the then Secretary Vilsack portrait on the link.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Then afterwards, I've spoken at PTA meetings as well as Kiwanis meetings, and also met with Miss Flynn at Maple Ave. I've also been invited and was invited this March

[R9041-57] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: why school meals matter, and I was part of the top three who made it on that. So I was invited to go to the USDA and speak in front of 50 plus members, as well as the then Secretary Vilsack portrait on the link.
TEXT> Then afterwards, I've spoken at PTA meetings as well as Kiwanis meetings, and also met with Miss Flynn at Maple Ave.  I've also been invited and was invited this March 28th through 30th to attend and speak the third speaker  at the 2017 Nurse to Flair Summit in Chicago, where we kind of all focused on different subjects inside of schools. My focus was,  why school meals matter? Because I did the speech on it. And also that,  how can we change deposit? How can we change the narrative on school meals nationally? So as part of the group, I will be the student voice inside of a national ad campaign in 2018.  Then at the summit, the Chicago summit, I became New Hampshire state and for the 2017 school year, which means I am in charge of all of New Hampshire's fields play 60. So anything that they need will report to me. And I will also be representing, representing,  the Patriots and one of their five student body athletes and participants of the program. So I'll be  at a lot of Patriots items and also representing fields by 60 and giving student voices throughout the state. And then we just found out that our school became a Touchstone school, Claremont Middle School, by completing all the necessary steps where and we, me and three other people, as well as Lisa Duvall and Paul Petro from the CMS, will go to Gillette Stadium and go to the regional summit.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: And then, because I'm the New Hampshire State ambassador, I will attend the 2017 National Summit in Minnesota this July. Now at Field to Play 60 at CMS. At CMS,

[R9041-63] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: away, giving it out so that we can have it. So it's good for the students as well, and maybe even a way for those students who really need that food to take it home and have that at home. Now we have any questions?
TEXT> Oh, yeah. First of all, Prescott, I want to say just a a fantastic job.  It's just fantastic. My only my only question was if you could explain what. So what did you mean by when 70% of students say they aren't represented by the school meals program?
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: That by that they mean that they aren't getting the choice in the what they think of adequate coverage with the school meals program. So what? Because I know students,

[R9041-64] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: of all, Prescott, I want to say just a a fantastic job. It's just fantastic. My only my only question was if you could explain what. So what did you mean by when 70% of students say they aren't represented by the school meals program?
TEXT> That by that they mean that they aren't getting the choice in the what they think of adequate coverage with the school meals program. So what? Because I know students, they all have their own opinions and their own things of school meals. For example, like some of them say,  I want ice cream on my school meals or  I just want better meals. Well, that's you can't really represent that. But there's some students who you know are eating school meals five days a week, and it's that's their only nutrition for or adequate nutrition for the entire week where they're not feeling represented because they're what they want, is not meeting what they're getting, what they're getting. So maybe having more student involvement, such as instead of just having me coming to these meetings and stuff like that, maybe having incorporating student council or other student leaders inside of the schools as part of it might help with this.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Thank you very much. Excellent.

[R9041-67] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Marion Lovett: food waste is I know when I was having school lunches, it was mandatory to take one fruit or one vegetable because it was the nutritious aspect of the meal. Do you know if that's a state law or if that is just a district?
TEXT> I think that is a state law. But I, I've  talking with the Dairy Council.  We figured out ways in order to kind of well, I don't want to say loophole, but like figure out ways to go throughout the  school meals, for example.  I know in Milford that they've had success with it. They've had a cart where if the student's not eating their, their nutritionist part of the meal or they haven't touched it or anything, they can put it on that cart. And then at the end of the day. Well, they're going around and going home. They bring those carts around, and the students who need those fruits or vegetables can take those.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm not. That's okay. Through the state. Or is it just.

[R9041-76] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Michael O'Neill: So that's what you see.
TEXT> But if we kept it in school. So so what you're saying is the students have to take it. They don't have to eat it. But saying with a cart for it's all sort of a, I don't know, a a giveaway cart for students inside the school in that way. And we're not violating the law, which says that is concerned about the food being taken out of the school and kind of turned for profit or whatever. That's interesting for you.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: One of the things that I could say was, I know that there's wind block, there's kind of the snacking opportunity, maybe because maybe that we could take those food,

[R9041-80] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Prescott Herzog: It's one of the students. It's the only thing students really ran about. That's kind of how it's gone. But they, you know, there's really significant aspects to it besides just, you know. Oh, it sucks or something like that. So.
TEXT> Well, and I think you raised the other point too. It's just like athletics and academics. Things have gotten better around our district because more kids are getting a voice in. The same thing is going to happen with food service. If we if you guys help us and you give them the voice, it will get better. Because of that, I think I can't stress enough what you just did as far as really defining the topic of what we've got to do with food service and why it is so important, and it's not just an afterthought. So you did an amazing job. You really hit the points. And thank you very much for for doing it. You did a great job.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Brilliant.

[R9041-85] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: So you and I agree with that point. You you raised an excellent point about the grab and go. And I, I know that with some of the schools in the area that they do have that and I that's a that's an excellent point.
TEXT> Well, I'm, I'm wondering if there's been enough time in the mornings for kids to actually get  the get the breakfast and be able to.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: They have a full 30 minutes and learn to eat breakfast.

[R9041-88] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Okay.
TEXT> It's  on average, there's about 38 students that have school breakfast and that  48% of students are eligible for free breakfast. So you can see that there's a bit of a difference between the people who are actually taking it, or in the people who are actually eligible for.
NEXT> Unidentified: It, on the ones that are sorry and the ones that are eligible, are they are those guys getting there on time or I mean, 30 minutes sounds like a

[R9041-105] Prescott Herzog | Eighth-grade student, Claremont Middle School; New Hampshire student a | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: Five six.
TEXT> 45672345671234567123456712345612345612345612345612345123451234513234512341234123412324123123123123121212121111. And students are actually involved in that throughout the entire throughout the entire day. Because in classes like math or just there's some classes where you just sit down all day and just having those incorporated and signs of the day. There's some teachers who have already started to be involved in this a lot more often. It's just kind of a good way to get kids more energized. And instead of just sitting there inside of their desk actually getting up and getting those brain cells moving again.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Prescott I'm in occupational therapy. So, I just want to let you know you totally made my day because I think all teachers should be doing this all day long.

[R9041-134] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Pat Berry' [204]; 'Than | 2017-04-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: I'm.
TEXT> Hoping the schedule Committee will help us to answer that question.  You know, there are schools that have half days every Wednesday and students leave at 12 and from 12 to 3 every Wednesday. It's faculty time. It's plc time.  Schools that on other days go go till 3 or 4 to make up that difference  and then have a half day or, or go for days and have every Friday off. And every Friday is just PD time, faculty work time. So there's a lot of schools who have figured out what that looks like to make it happen.  But that's why, you know, when you hear from the superintendent that it has to be outside of we have to have that conversation outside of everything else and say, what is it that meets what we clearly need to do? And then let's figure out how to make that happen.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I did, I agree with I've always had positive experiences with the half day on Wednesday. I didn't know that. Usually I kind of mainstream districts could do that. Usually

[R9041-142] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Pat Berry' [204]; 'Than | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patricia Barry: for our faculty meetings have been on competency based learning and standards based grading and really revisiting the whole package. And what is our philosophy of grading? What is our philosophy around instruction, learning and assessment? And then how do we report out on it?
TEXT> That's the last thing we figure out, not the first thing we figure out. And so we've gone back to the drawing board. We're not starting from scratch because the work that we've done at Stevens over the last 4 or 5 years has been enormous towards competency based  instruction. But the way in which we report that out to parents, students in the community is, is very much in need of tweaking. And so that work, work deep into it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Why don't you say that? Because when I talk to the Vermont side, we're about to go through it. And the only advice I've given them is a parent who

[R9041-144] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Pat Berry' [204]; 'Than | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: the Vermont side, we're about to go through it. And the only advice I've given them is a parent who went through that is communication, communication, communication, communication. If you communicate it, it'll be fine. If you just go and leave it at that communication.
TEXT> But great grading is for the client, and our client is the student and the parent. And if they aren't getting the information they need, then we're not doing a good job with the reporting.
NEXT> Chris Irish: To the one quick point though, when Brian and I met with with them, the one thing that amazing one that we're not the most quiet souls and we pretty

[R9041-180] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: You.
TEXT> Know, a Claremont School board or any school board. Wouldn't it be interesting if we could just all sit around and say, what if we don't change at all and something magic will happen? But in truth,  that's not possible. And in New Hampshire, the current state of affairs in New Hampshire, there's change coming. I'm not sure what that change will ultimately be, but status quo is not an option. So I want to talk to you just for a few minutes before we talk a little bit about fiscal year 19. I want to talk about Senate Bill 93 and House Bill 356, which is an amendment. Senate Bill 93. It's about school vouchers. And let me just share with you. School choice is not a bad thing. In fact, school choice is a wonderful thing. Parents don't have the right to decide if their son or daughter will be educated, but they do have the right to decide how. We have several charter schools. We have parochial schools, private schools. There were children who were homeschooled. That's the parents choice. And they should be supported and we do support them. However, it's important that you understand that the school voucher bill, Senate Bill 93, has some problems.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Approximately $63 million destined for public schools in New Hampshire is part of the problem. If this bill was, if it passes and it is fully utilized by charter school

[R9041-200] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: what the school district seems best deems best. But and I understand that sometimes it yes, it does. It does pose some, some challenges. At the same time, I think that that when we would kind of come back, I mean, we, we did ultimately,
TEXT> You know, I felt that it did work because I think that ultimately there was a point where we did not where we did not come to. We kind of found that we were not we were an agreement to a certain point on certain things. But I think when it really came down to differences of opinion, where there were concerns about where it was going to start affecting the schools and the students, I think that we were able to see that, I don't think it it would if it was I think it helped that we were kind of bringing it back into the public meeting and getting back that feedback that was that made a big difference. So I do think that that's important. But, I did want to speak in, you know, some support for I think it's we because we aren't able to ever dialog outside of the meetings. And honestly, I realize sometimes we, we, you know, we're this isn't always the best format for us to work together as a board.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So I do think that it has been there is a benefit to it. I do understand your your concern about it. But I, I think that that we are,

[R9041-235] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes a board member who questions Senate Bill  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: on a board. But when all is said and done, you really got to think about the people that are yelling at you, what's their motive and what's your motive? So that's just I think that was a that was a great point. I'm thinking.
TEXT> About back to the Senate Bill 93 had your question. I don't know if you have any estimated numbers of we have some estimated numbers how that would affect the state, but more locally, how would that affect Claremont as far as the number of students now in private school, homeschool,  dollar amount. I mean, I don't know if there's 100 kids that are private school right now or if they're. Do you have estimates on those numbers?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The number I, I, I know that the number of home school students, has been around 100, but we once a student declare, once a parent declares that they're going

[R9041-236] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: locally, how would that affect Claremont as far as the number of students now in private school, homeschool, dollar amount. I mean, I don't know if there's 100 kids that are private school right now or if they're. Do you have estimates on those numbers?
TEXT> The number I, I, I know that the number of home school students, has been around 100, but we once a student declare, once a parent declares that they're going to homeschool their son or daughter, they're not obligated to come back and report. We're not obligated to check. I can't tell you how many. I do not know how many students are in private schools. I don't know parochial schools. I don't have that answer.
NEXT> Unidentified: So if my math is correct, 100 homeschool students would be about $350,000. That's correct. Claremont budget. Yeah, but.

[R9041-237] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes a board member who questions Senate Bill  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: homeschool their son or daughter, they're not obligated to come back and report. We're not obligated to check. I can't tell you how many. I do not know how many students are in private schools. I don't know parochial schools. I don't have that answer.
TEXT> So if my math is correct, 100 homeschool students would be about $350,000. That's correct. Claremont budget. Yeah, but.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Continues to grow to. And we have seen an increasing trend in students when the truant officer begins to really crack down on their absenteeism, they suddenly start homeschooling. So

[R9041-238] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized as 'Corey' [179]; 'Corey L | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: So if my math is correct, 100 homeschool students would be about $350,000. That's correct. Claremont budget. Yeah, but.
TEXT> Continues to grow  to. And we have seen an increasing trend in students when the truant officer begins to really crack down on their absenteeism, they suddenly start homeschooling. So there's there's a. We look at our intense factor 2012 as of last year at this time, in May 5th, 2016, we had 126. So I'm guessing that number is, significantly higher than that now.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I'm just I'm just trying to put all these numbers together to get the picture that, I mean, this could be a huge number, half $1 million coming out

[R9041-246] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: And then leave.
TEXT> So  and I think a lot of families need to realize that that, that if their, the state has no plan for how they're going to fund the state, state can't fund it themselves. So their whole plan is only to take that the that they only want the money to be to be coming from what schools are already getting per student. So parents are already kind of have their kids in private school. They're not from my understanding, they weren't going to get anything.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, there's there's the point. I wanted to get you real quick because that is the myth of the whole school choice concept, especially in Claremont and in New Hampshire

[R9041-249] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes a board member who questions Senate Bill  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: So those people can subsidize something they can already afford. It just drives me crazy the way they're selling this bill of goods.
TEXT> Right? Because you're not decreasing student numbers enough to cut a teaching position or to make any changes within the public school, you're not, you know, the changes in big enough. You still need the same staff.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's a critical point you could have in the Claremont School District. You could have three third graders for second graders, you know, it could be scattered, but cumulatively, it

[R9041-253] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: The fixation on pure the whole pure pupil money ratio. It's a there's this fixation on it. It's just me. Absolutely nuts because education doesn't work that way. So people start thinking that they start thinking of each child costing 5000 or well.
TEXT> They lowered. They lowered the bar so much just by calling it adequate. Let's have an adequate. I don't want my kid to have adequate.  You do. I want my kid to have the best affordable education we can have. But the perfect example of those of us sitting on the table, if just for example, say, two of us, literally two of us had kids in private school right now, we'd still only have two of us with kids in private school. But the two of us that have kids in private school would get money for it, and the other 8 or 9 in the room would be paying for that. So no matter how you slice it, it conservative best be nice would be 10% of the people who are going to benefit from that, 90% will suffer. I think it's more like 5%. But but again, why? When did adequate become okay? You know, that's where the you know, the adage good becomes the enemy of the best. It's like, well, we'll settle for adequate. What does that mean? That's political speak for we're going to get out of it as cheap as possible.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I think it bothers me the most is that a student's zip code has a major impact on their education. Every child in this community, every child in this state,

[R9041-254] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Chris Irish: adequate become okay? You know, that's where the you know, the adage good becomes the enemy of the best. It's like, well, we'll settle for adequate. What does that mean? That's political speak for we're going to get out of it as cheap as possible.
TEXT> I think it bothers me the most is that a student's zip code has a major impact on their education. Every child in this community, every child in this state, in this country, should have equal access to a free and appropriate education.
NEXT> Chris Irish: We know.

[R9041-277] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member (makes motions [304, 741, 767]; not name | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah.
TEXT> It's kind of positive. Note I would like to say that I been following Governor Sununu and his support for the full day kindergarten, which is actually awesome, that we're we're at least starting to see something that that Corey LeClaire pretty much single handedly,  you know, put together with her groups and created this and developed all these programs and brought all these different things in place, everybody together and brought it and and look at where you are. I mean, there's a look at where we all are. I mean, the fact that there's more children being serviced now that there's the ability to identify sooner. There's so many things that have made full day kindergarten, which was a scary step. It was a big step and a scary step. And it's showing to prove to be beneficial for for everyone. Although tiring some days, for some parents.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It certainly was not me single handed.

[R9041-312] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; thanked as 'Doct | 2017-04-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Okay. Thank you. Got our meeting schedule. You for the summer.
TEXT> Yeah. In the packet, you have, series of of of topics that we're considering to present to you. Budget process while we're starting budget process. Now, looking on the second page of this, of this revised list dated April 7th, next meeting is May 3rd.  I was considering technology having a presentation regarding technology. However, going through this, this list of 17 items and there may be more that you would like more information about. Unless I hear differently, are director of Instructional Technology Josh Malloy would make a presentation predominantly to have you understand that  to provide the information that where we've been, where we are, what the plan is going forward. So that can be part of your information as we get into the budget process. It's all about you being aware of the ins and outs of what we're doing, because without that information, it's just a number. But I really do need your help. If there are any particular areas that are part of the budget process, items that cost money that we're with, that you need more information about, that's very important to know that you shouldn't be guessing when you're looking at the budget. You should have an understanding. I know that we're going to be talking about some Frank Sprague asked about number of teachers, number of students, number of positions we have to grind down with that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So there will be a greater awareness instead of just at school and professional salaries. Okay.

[R9041-344] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member asking about summer meetings [537-548]; no | 2017-04-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: I'll email you. All right.
TEXT> Now three kids painting.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think.

[R9041-433] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [101]; 'to Ch | 2017-04-19
PREV> Michael O'Neill: If I can see if it would be possible to do that. Because essentially with the long jump and the triple jump, you can't just have one jump spot and have to have a me. So that's the only thing I'd just like. To add.
TEXT> Well, and to, to to Mike's point, this is not the first thing we've been doing the last couple of years. Last year, there's a new electronic scoreboard going down to veterans that the school is paying for. Part of it. Parks and rec was paying part of it. They actually the school and and Parks and Rec partnered up and built the new backstop that's down there. And for the same exact reasons as the more we have these facilities, you can attract state meets and state championship games and things like that. Without the right field, you can't. Correct. But it does benefit once we can do it. But ultimately it's just having good field for kids to plan. So but the partnership is there and it's it's beginning to really fear certainly.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I mean again, another discussion at some point about the sponsorship, about ways that we can kind of use.

[R9041-473] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Patrick' [66, 256, 560];  | 2017-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: In services.
TEXT> You know, we have more. We end up with having more students come in needing services than we might have estimated.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Right. But then luckily the winter was warmer last year, then not so much this year, but last winter. So that provided a surplus last year because the electricity was

[R9073-7] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Abstain.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. And student representatives. Report. Good evening.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good evening.

[R9073-13] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Frank' [24, 127]; 'Thank | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Oh thank you. Any questions or frank comment?
TEXT> I just happen to be watching the channel nine news and if flashed by and I looked and I said, oh, that's Parker there. And so I saw that they actually had the Stevens kids. The little clip say flashed by and there they were, even in the camera. So very cool.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah. Part of that award somewhere. They were also inducted into the high school Hall of Fame in New Hampshire. Oh, wow. It was a pretty amazing honor for those.

[R9073-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: of pride seeing how these kids interact and come down and work with the the younger students. And, you know, they're those three, you know, they're involved in all that stuff. So it's it's it's just another great thing that we see with our schools.
TEXT> I agree.  And if I can piggyback on what you've just said, Brian, and of course, we're celebrating Stevens High School. But at one time these were middle school students and elementary students. So it didn't start in grade nine. But all credit to Stevens High School, to students like Marion Lovett and others. I mean, they really do represent this community, their parent, the school district, the community.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right.

[R9073-25] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: economic demographics. So this is across the board. And the good news is we're talking about it and we're discussing strategies to assist every one of us. I know I have experienced in my life certain adverse childhood experiences. When I send you that checklist.
TEXT> I'm sure you have two, but with the appropriate accommodations, one can go forward. And so these the videos and the films that we've been showing in discussions that have followed, followed are proof of that.  Also in the packet is a flier,  River Valley Community College. And of course, as you can see,  we have made some major steps working with River Valley Community College and looking at  the the packet cover sheet. River Valley Community College has rebranded what we used to call catch the Wave, to Bridge to Success and actually now accepting enrollments  from high school students for the summer as well as the fall of 2017.  Students are able to take any course at River Valley Community College catalog that does not have a prerequisite. Even the class of 2017, this year's seniors, are able to participate in taking up to two summer courses through River Valley Community College at a reduced rate. The wonderful thing about this is that high school students will be able to take college courses and if we can, and this process has been going on working with River Valley College,  high school courses with certain competencies. If that River Valley Community College includes those competencies, then the student can take that River Valley Community College course, get credit for the high school course because of the same competencies, but earn college credit.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if you think of it, it will be possible for a high school student to graduate with almost the almost the comparable courses of a of associate degree.

[R9073-26] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: River Valley College, high school courses with certain competencies. If that River Valley Community College includes those competencies, then the student can take that River Valley Community College course, get credit for the high school course because of the same competencies, but earn college credit.
TEXT> And if you think of it, it will be possible for a high school student to graduate with almost the almost the comparable  courses of a of associate degree.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just let note.

[R9073-29] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Frank' [24, 127]; 'Thank | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: On that please.
TEXT> The other advantage to this is that some of these courses are the same as our running start courses. And let's say a student has a we're teaching college composition in the morning. And then of course here at the center irreconcilable conflict run. These courses are also taught. There's a college composition course perhaps taught in the afternoon. So this what it enables us to do is resolve some scheduling conflicts that might occur with our regular high school schedule, with our running start courses. This adds the flexibility for students to be able to take the same course, but at a different time.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You're absolutely right. Thank you Frank. And so the Claremont School District and River Valley Community College have met and continue to meet to identify how we can bridge the

[R9073-31] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: their last training, because most of the vocations today require additional training beyond high school. 50 years ago, 40 years, that wasn't the case. Soon after World War Two, only 50% of the students in high school finished high school. But they could find vocation.
TEXT> They could raise a family, buy a house. Many of those jobs are gone. And so it's important we're not pushing for a four year  university education, but we are pushing for the importance of students  being able to acquire skills and some of these skills that would be oftentimes post-high school skills now through running start and through Valley Community College and others can be acquired. Why they while they are in high school.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah. I'm going to pick you back. I've been kind of on this one for a while. My daughter was the first and unfortunately, I think since 2014, I think

[R9073-32] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [162, 166]; c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: pushing for the importance of students being able to acquire skills and some of these skills that would be oftentimes post-high school skills now through running start and through Valley Community College and others can be acquired. Why they while they are in high school.
TEXT> Yeah. I'm going to pick you back. I've been kind of on this one for a while. My daughter was the first and unfortunately, I think since 2014, I think still the only Stevens student to take advantage of this. And it boggles my mind. I know some of it had to do with guidance, and I know we're shifting gears on that, so I can't stress this enough between guidance and what you just said in getting this out their way before they hit high school. It's a phenomenal program. And for me, the embedded credits or the or their dual enrollment is a great thing and the cost is a huge factor. But what was to me was the most beneficial thing for Ashley. She had three courses under her belt before she got to Nht and it was a huge. I can't stress how important that impact was. When she walked into college, she already had a a comfort zone with college. It wasn't a massive shock. And she's had an amazing, amazing graduates in two weeks, which is unbelievable to me. But she said yeah, the the money is a huge factor. But for me, the biggest part I've tried to sell on this and, and I really wish more people would take advantage of it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It gives them a comfort and it gives them a college appearance before they walk in the door. So they're not hitting it like during the headlights. And it really

[R9073-33] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [162, 166]; c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Chris Irish: amazing graduates in two weeks, which is unbelievable to me. But she said yeah, the the money is a huge factor. But for me, the biggest part I've tried to sell on this and, and I really wish more people would take advantage of it.
TEXT> It gives them a comfort and it gives them a college appearance before they walk in the door. So they're not hitting it like during the headlights. And it really does work. It's a great, great, great program. And the sooner we get kids aware of it and the sooner we get them out there, it's and it's a huge cost savings. If you really want to get a lot of those courses out of the way before you actually have to pay the big bucks, once you get to college, this is a great way to do it.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But the service to find out why students aren't taking.

[R9073-34] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'I'm not defendi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Chris Irish: there, it's and it's a huge cost savings. If you really want to get a lot of those courses out of the way before you actually have to pay the big bucks, once you get to college, this is a great way to do it.
TEXT> But the service to find out why students aren't taking.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I think it might. What I know is it was it took a little while to get off the ground. It was it was a struggle to get going

[R9073-44] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Pretty much.
TEXT> You also have in your packet in the summary notes of the first meeting of the Stevens High School Scheduling Committee, you remember that  we have  our colleagues from Stevens High School as well as representatives of the administration meeting. It was a it was a it was a letter of agreement between the Claremont School Board and the sugar River Education Association to prepare a schedule, high school schedule  for the fall of 2018. I only I met with them once. I'm not going to participate in that meeting, but  at these meetings, because the staff  principal,  Pat Berry,  and other administrators have been empowered to work. There are some guidelines, though, and the guidelines is that the schedule they come forward with has to be affordable. It has to be mindful of budgetary constraints. There's no need to start from scratch to other models.  The  agreement talked about at the end of this process, they would create an a, B schedule. We have all agreed that we're not going to be handcuffed to an A, B schedule. Let us develop a schedule that is based on meeting the needs of our current student population and future student population, and a B may not be the best model.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The key, however, is to eliminate the 1 to 2 year academic gaps that can occur with our current block schedule. I am not here to be saying the block

[R9073-45] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: have all agreed that we're not going to be handcuffed to an A, B schedule. Let us develop a schedule that is based on meeting the needs of our current student population and future student population, and a B may not be the best model.
TEXT> The key, however, is to eliminate the 1 to 2 year academic gaps that can occur with our current block schedule. I am not here to be  saying the block schedule is not worthwhile. I'm saying that there are certain components of it that unintentionally create some challenges.  And one of those deals with, for example, a student taking a math course in the fall of their freshman year and may not take another math course until the second half of their sophomore year,  versus ongoing opportunities to deal with math, reading, writing, foreign language science, social studies, the importance of being transparent that staff as well as community, such as right now in the school board, has continuous updates as to how this is evolving. Think outside the box. By the way. Find out what works for our community and have license to think beyond some of the constraints that we currently have. So the collective bargaining agreement is being put aside, and the sugar River Education Association and the administration are working collectively and collaboratively to develop a schedule with some of the parameters that I've talked about, knowing that we don't have until the end of the 20 1718 to wrap this up. So this should come to closure in February 2018.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And so there can be plans to prepare. And one of the things that's very important, and the article in yesterday's Valley News regarding the CTE, greater access to our

[R9073-84] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other questions.
TEXT> Before you as a is a green  sheet that has  a email from Doug Morton to Pat Berry, from Doug Morton to Pat Berry. Doug Morton is a is a teacher here in our,  our tech center, plumbing and heating, HVAC.  This this email talks about how we are expanding opportunities for students to work in local businesses, known as extended learning opportunities. We talk about Chandler Zullo, who is a second year student with the PPVAC at sugar River and is having an extended learning  opportunity  with a local employer of Scott Hinckley. We're also talking about  another student who has had the opportunity, Brendan Beam, who has accepted a full time work co-op program this summer with Arc mechanical and is the process of working with Christine Downey and Doug Morton to develop a Summer L so he can also earn graduation credits and make the experience as memorial as memorable as possible.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So what is exciting about this is that we are partnering with local businesses, and we are expanding on our extended learning opportunities, where students with these partnerships and local

[R9073-105] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: kindergarten. I'm hearing the word adequacy, and what's interesting is long before I arrived in Claremont, there was a Claremont suit or lawsuit. And the Supreme Court, I am aware, indicated, yes, it is the responsibility of Concord to support adequate education for all children.
TEXT> In truth, the ZIP code of a child has a major impact on the resources.  Not to diminish the work of others in the past, but the playing field is not level on the back. The last page I have taken the portion of the information  and number 50 is Claremont, and you can see the difference if. This bill is passed. This information is about eight hours old. I haven't been sitting on this for several days and I know they they they meet tomorrow, they meeting  the house, the full house. So phone calls are critical. And for those listening.  Mr.. Mr.. O'Connor, in any other individuals, you know, with the impact  a phone call conquered has a great deal of contact with lobbyists. They don't have a great deal of contact with the residents. And I'm quoting Senator John Reagan, who spoke to superintendents back in January. If we as community members don't speak up and a phone call is better than email, even a message left  if we don't, we have a chance of losing this opportunity. What makes sense and what actually occurs? Sometimes a polarized Chris.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I guess I was going to ask for a letter and then I was going to ask for an email, so I'll get rid of those. I'd like to

[R9073-202] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: This isn't for dramatic.
TEXT> Centennial educator at Saint-Gaudens. And I'm with my colleagues who will introduce themselves. But this is Kirsten and Don.  And we're here to keep up the the conversation, the the tone of this meeting,  other than this, dangerous vote that's about to happen. You know, what I've heard in the meetings thus far is that, you know, there's there's positive  feelings. There's there's great collaboration. There are many opportunities happening right now.  That there's a locus for change. That's that's boiling right here. And that's what we're here to talk to you about.  Community action  and volunteerism is really important. And fortunately,  community, I, I'm thinking of what you said, Mr. Irish, about hiring a,  a person whose job it is is to create relationships between community and business and the school. In fact, it comes from all different directions. It would, you know, it is important to have someone do this as outreach within the the district, but also have the community.  And our partners  realize how important it is to partner with  the school districts if we really want to educate children in the 21st century.  I'm a proponent of place based education.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: It's also known as project based education or problem based education. It's a model for teaching. It's a pedagogical model that actually came out of med schools. They realized that

[R9073-203] Nancy Lewis | Stevens High School social studies teacher; Saint-Gaudens centennial e | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: do this as outreach within the the district, but also have the community. And our partners realize how important it is to partner with the school districts if we really want to educate children in the 21st century. I'm a proponent of place based education.
TEXT> It's also known as project based education or problem based education. It's a model for teaching. It's a pedagogical model that actually came out of med schools. They realized that doctors were, well, much better prepared if they actually did medicine as opposed to learn medicine. This is a no brainer, especially in a tech center, because that's what tech centers do. It's they they learn, the teachers, students learn. It's the constructivist model.  Students and people learn by doing. With that in mind, what  Saint-Gaudens and the school district are embarking on is  an endeavor with to develop place based education within our school district. And with that in mind, I'm going to turn it over to my colleagues.
NEXT> Kirsten Burlingame: So I'm Kirsten Burlingame, and I'm an education and interpretation ranger at Saint-Gaudens, which it looks like we're listed as saga on there. We're not trying to be overly dramatic.

[R9073-204] Kirsten Burlingame | Education and interpretation ranger, Saint-Gaudens National Historical | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: and people learn by doing. With that in mind, what Saint-Gaudens and the school district are embarking on is an endeavor with to develop place based education within our school district. And with that in mind, I'm going to turn it over to my colleagues.
TEXT> So I'm Kirsten Burlingame, and I'm an education and interpretation ranger at Saint-Gaudens, which it looks like we're listed as saga  on there. We're not trying to be overly dramatic.  Any national park,  goes and there are 417 goes by the first two letters of its first name and the first two letters of its second name. So we're, you know, we happen to be saga, but Mount Rainier would be more Grand Canyon GRC. So,  although we can be dramatic.  So we're the only National Park Service site in New Hampshire, conveniently located 20 minutes up the road from, from you all here in Claremont. And last year, we celebrated our centennial, so we turned 100. The National Park Service dead. So we found some funding for events and for a great centennial educator. And so Nancy and I have been working together the past year and through the end of the summer, maybe longer.  Basically working on tying Saint-Gaudens and the Park Service, getting into the community, more specifically Claremont. And so some things that we're working on, are  the Saga Steam Camp, which is specifically for Claremont Middle School students. And so I talked to just yesterday at the middle school and told all the teachers about that and Steam as science, technology, engineering. And then we've got the art piece in there since it's Saint-Gaudens and math teachers.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: So we had to add an H and now it is steam.

[R9073-207] Kirsten Burlingame | Education and interpretation ranger, Saint-Gaudens National Historical | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: I, I don't have it on.
TEXT> We have some of the high school students from Stevens High are going to have the first ever high school  art exhibit at Saint-Gaudens on May 19th.  So we've got lots of good things working, and it's all revolving around place based education. So it's learning from and within the community and going a little bit beyond to Saint-Gaudens as well, and just creating stewards for your town. And for the parks. And the final thing that we're working on is, Don and I have met with every teacher in from kindergarten, first, second, third, fourth and fifth in Claremont. So we've been to lots of staff meetings, getting  their feedback on place based education and their goals and challenges.  And we're crafting a workshop, the three of us one day at Saint-Gaudens, one day at Sullivan County. To meet their needs. But it's tailored to the teachers of Claremont K through five.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9073-245] Kirsten Burlingame | Education and interpretation ranger, Saint-Gaudens National Historical | 2017-05-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Okay. Would it, would it just be for the middle school or are we looking at models that could possibly go into first grade kindergarten?
TEXT> We're starting with middle school. Yeah, yeah. And we we got a grant through the Wellborn Ecology Fund and last summer for $5,000. And then Nancy and I were like, what? You know, how can we craft this? And we saw that there was a need.  There's a lot of camps for first, you know, kindergarten through, fifth or, you know, but not many for middle school. So we were starting there. So we're going to see how this goes. Plus, we wanted to pick the hardest group of kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: And.

[R9073-251] Kirsten Burlingame | Education and interpretation ranger, Saint-Gaudens National Historical | 2017-05-03
PREV> Nancy Lewis: It's a very good deal.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. And actually, it'll be the three of us leading it with two high school students that will be paid,  as co camp counselors.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Stevens high School students.

[R9073-252] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Chris' [162, 166]; c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Kirsten Burlingame: Yeah, yeah. And actually, it'll be the three of us leading it with two high school students that will be paid, as co camp counselors.
TEXT> Stevens high School students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9073-260] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Hasn't it? Yeah.
TEXT> Do our middle school kids or parents know about this yet?
NEXT> Kirsten Burlingame: I just I've sent, I think, doctor McGowan, I think you shared the PDF, so it was okay to share, and I actually took probably 50 to 100 copies yesterday

[R9073-261] Kirsten Burlingame | Education and interpretation ranger, Saint-Gaudens National Historical | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Do our middle school kids or parents know about this yet?
TEXT> I just I've sent, I think, doctor McGowan, I think you shared the PDF, so it was okay to share, and I actually took probably 50 to 100 copies yesterday to the middle school. And then I took copies because it's for kids entering sixth, seventh and eighth grade. So we had to kind of cut it off. So it's entering. So I actually did take it to, Desert and Maple Ave, but bluff, I think I got too, too late yesterday.  So we'll see, you know, the interest level.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. Yeah.

[R9073-274] Kirsten Burlingame | Education and interpretation ranger, Saint-Gaudens National Historical | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely.
TEXT> One final thing is  I left those. That there's every kid in a park, any fourth grader. So any. Let's see. Yeah. Any current fourth grader can get a free national park to any or. Excuse me, a free pass to any National Park Service site which kids are free anyway to national parks, but that means they get their families in. And so I've let folks know. But you know, sometimes, like, I know there's a lot of kids from Claremont that haven't been to Saint-Gaudens. And, you know, now if they.
NEXT> Unidentified: You know.

[R9073-276] Kirsten Burlingame | Education and interpretation ranger, Saint-Gaudens National Historical | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: You know.
TEXT> They've got a free pass for their families, they can bring guests or whatever. And we want kids,  at the site. So I've put some information on the table about that.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So would that include all national parks in New Hampshire?

[R9073-326] Marion Lovett | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior ('Mari | 2017-05-03
PREV> Don Dexter: Wow.
TEXT> These people know what they're talking about. And these are our future kids and generations. So it's incredible to come with these fellow people in my school and meet so many other people.
NEXT> Nancy Lewis: And Clara is our engineer. She's a freshman and she she joined up. Clara, did you know much about this program before you started?

[R9073-358] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right. Well, fiscal year 19 budget presentation.
TEXT> Part of  of  our commitment to you as we work toward developing fiscal year 18. Excuse me, fiscal year 19, even though fiscal year 18 hasn't even started yet. Is to provide you with budgetary information, and, and you have expressed an interest to learn more about our technology as well as our security. And so, Josh Malloy, who is the director of instructional technology for the Claremont School District, who, by the way, is  now a Claremont resident with his with his children and wife, is here to provide a a PowerPoint presentation. This may very well,  not answer all your questions. And if it does not, that will be helpful for us as we prepare to come back for further information. But this is one of the many steps to provide you with the foundation  of awareness, as you have to deal with important budgetary decisions which will be starting soon. So welcome sir.
NEXT> Unidentified: To get started.

[R9073-363] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Josh Malloy: Oh, they're very delicate. And I did not break them. They were already broken. They're all public.
TEXT> While Josh is setting up. I think it's wonderful that we recruit a professional educator of Josh's caliber. He and his family have relocated to Claremont. They'll be moving into their home in the very near future. So not only a director with an important responsibility, but also a new resident to our community and his children enrolled in our school district this past Monday.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Welcome.

[R9073-490] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Frank' [24, 127]; 'Thank | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: 1.5. Yeah.
TEXT> So it'd be interesting to see, I, I think it'd be interesting to see some of the fruits of that investment. And what are what are people, what are we using those resources for. I'm assuming it's to create engaging lessons that kids can relate to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9073-499] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recordi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Marion Lovett: Sort of.
TEXT> The, the I mean, to some degree, yes, absolutely. There's an expectation that all teachers are using technology in the classroom. We've done a lot of work in the last, predominantly 18 months or so, creating a technology curriculum for grades K through five that never existed before. And we have a vertically aligned curriculum, grades K through 12,  that is is being implemented this year. And we are seeing that the need to, shift some of those learning areas to lower grades as we implement the curriculum at lower grades. And students come to the middle school, for instance, with greater skill, we can we can now address different things at an earlier age. So we, are working on our writing curriculum as well. And one of the requirements of writing curriculum is to have a technology component in every unit, whether that be publishing or accessing information through digital means or whatever that might be. Every unit is required to have a technology component. What?  Something that that I've been cognizant of, though, is I don't want to be the end result.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I want technology to be the tool to get to a greater end result. And that's very different. It's we're not teaching technology for technology sake. We're teaching content. We're

[R9073-506] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report; referred to as ' | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: If I may.
TEXT> You mean.  Excuse me. I, my impulsivity increases as we get as the night gets on. But I want to share with you that in 2011, 2012, Frank Sprague will concur with this. It took a computer at the high school 15, 12, 15 minutes to boot up. We were in dark ages. We couldn't because my predecessors had a very clear vision on technology, but it's my understanding most of it went on Warren articles and they weren't successful. That's not a criticism, but we couldn't keep up. We have come light years in technology as we have tried to catch up. And I remember in this very room I had high school students, I think it was in January 2012. We did a little video clip, explain what it's like to be a high school student at Stevens High School. With today's technology, I there was no script. They spoke from their heart and the budget and the Warren articles passed because we were in trouble. Now I'm not. However, your comment, Chris, is very, very fair. So where and and for future discussion,  where are we? What do we need to do? Outcomes of our tech integrator? In other words, how are we maximizing our technology? But also how can we justify continually to spend money on technology? I mean, that's one of the things I've heard.
NEXT> Unidentified: If I'm correct.

[R9073-563] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides: calls to order, runs agenda, c | 2017-05-03
PREV> Chris Irish: Well, it's I think it's a security.
TEXT> If kids are getting bullied in school, they don't feel secure in school. So that's a problem. So, I'd like to see some sort of. We know where we are. What? What we've spent money on for security again. We could probably take some of that stuff out and look at a plan on where we need to go in the future.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think it's already planned.

[R9073-690] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recordi | 2017-05-03
PREV> Unidentified: Mike. Couple things. How does this line up with surrounding schools and their schedules? Newport and surrounding schools. Is this line up with theirs?
TEXT> Yeah. Middleton and I met with the superintendent in Newport, and we looked at the calendars at that time.  Newport had not yet finalized their calendar for next year, but our conversation focused on aligning our vacation weeks, which my understanding is we did. We adjusted one of them to align with Newport. So both of them should align with what Newport had on the table at that time. And Newport was going to, connect with their board to have their start date aligned with our start date so that we would minimize the number of days that we were out of sync, particularly because we share CTE students. We also went through and looked at our professional development days and things of that nature and and aligned those as much as was possible or feasible. We have some constraints, such as voting days. Two of our facilities are used for voting, so there's a date in November and a date in March that are midweek dates that aren't necessarily conducive to other districts, but that's something that we in our district need to to do. So those will be dates that we won't necessarily align, but we did align  our vacations and holidays, for instance, with the New Hampshire recommended school calendar. So it should align better for 1718 than it has the last year or two.
NEXT> Unidentified: And with, I know this year, whether it be luck or good planning, we were able to make up the snow days by built in hours. Is that the same

[R9098-19] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (addressed as 'Marion'; nam | 2017-05-17
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: 1000. So that's pretty incredible. Future school board a New Hampshire state scholars will journey to the Fisher Cats game tomorrow, and Manchester 26 seniors will enjoy a day out at the ball game to recognize their accomplishments, along with students from around the state.
TEXT> The final SAS Band Inquire concert is Thursday, June 1st at 7 p.m.. Students in the owls program went ahead with the Community Service Day on April 21st. They had a bake sale from goodies baked themselves from scratch in our kitchen. Thanks to students and staff at the Tech Center for supporting our cause. They raised $129, which has been donated to the Humane Society here in Claremont. Stevens High School Musical Theater is presenting Shrek the Musical next week. Performances are May 25th to the 27th  at 7 p.m. and May 28th at 2 p.m.. Over 50 shows students make up the cast and crew for the production. We would be honored to have board members come to see our show. One of the things to share is that we are preparing for our first round of student led ELO presentations at the end of May and June, so we look forward to sharing the results of these presentations of perhaps a June school board meeting. Logan Bateman has won the Stock Market Challenge competition for the state of New Hampshire offered by the CIF,  a Foundation and Fidelity Investments. In this online challenge, students start with $100,000 and attempt to make their portfolio grow throughout the school year. In Logan's case, he finished the challenge with almost $124,000. Logan will be honored Thursday, May 17th, in Merrimack, New Hampshire.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: And then from Mr. Usher, who is the physics department or teacher in the physics department? In Honors Physics two, we are studying atomic physics. This includes nuclear energy and

[R9098-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: least have a greater awareness. This is a very, very important topic that we need to have in preparation for preparing the budget, as well as have publicly as well as privately and not public. So the board is aware of, of this particular issue.
TEXT> It.  And so I look forward I look forward to that discussion with you. But this I want to share with you is not a New Hampshire dilemma. This is a national issue  across our country there. We have seen an increase of of this challenge.  And so it's something that we can't ignore. And it's something that we have to, in the appropriate way, address, because we're not talking about a small group of children. We're talking about the entire school community, because one child who's having difficulty impacts many others. We're concerned about that child, but we're also concerned about all other children being impacted. And our our objective is to take a step back and do some retooling and redesigning.  The most effective way to assist  every student in the Claremont School District. And Chris Bezel will be spending a little time on that as well. So  there's a great deal  to be proud of here. As the 2016 2017  school year begins to wind down. But just know that  even though we have our challenges as we do, and we'll be talking about some of them tonight, there is a great deal to be proud of. And this evening, Rogue Robotics will be a further illustration of that. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? Thank you. And we'll open it up for citizens comments. Anybody for citizens comments. Close citizens comments. We'll move on to discussion items.

[R9098-28] Unidentified | Robotics club (Rogue Robotics) adult mentor, parent of a team member;  | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: that was titled How to Build an Underwater Robot. Several years after it was published, an MIT professor found one of the projects, the one which we now call Seahawk, and he began to use it to get interest in the engineering program at MIT.
TEXT> Many years after that, another professor saw how well the program was doing and wanted to use it to teach teachers how to teach engineering, and he was able to partner with the Office of Naval Research to get funding to begin that program. Then, many years after that, the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers. I have to have cheat cards because these are long names. Partnered with the Office of Naval Research to develop the National Sea Perch program that we know today, to have an outreach to students below the college level.  They began the whole infrastructure of the kits, the support program, the training programs for mentors, teachers to provide this experience to  really kindergarten through high school. In 2011, the Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International Foundation began to take over the management of the Sea Ports Program. And since that time, 100,000 students in our country have participated in the Sea Perch program, and their whole mission is to provide an exciting, hands on, Stem based experience to encourage more students to go into an engineering field. One reason is in our country, we have fallen from third to 17th in the world for having college graduates, graduating with a career in engineering.
NEXT> Unidentified: Presently, in this country, there are over 400,000 engineering jobs available. 40% or more are going unfilled, and Rogue Robots intends to help change those statistics. I'd really like to

[R9098-70] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: about a national concern. And I'm not saying that we had the solution and we're going to fix the world, but I am saying if it's not going as well as you'd like or if you have challenges, you can turn your back on it.
TEXT> You can make excuses and point fingers and blame, or you can say, so how can we address this more effectively? And so that's what this is about tonight as one of the bricks that we are building as we develop future budgetary decisions. And this has to be a piece of that process. So tonight we're not going to have a resolution. But tonight my goal is that the board  after this evening  will remember that this needs to be one of the targets that we work toward  as we plan for the future.  I'm very pleased to to welcome  Melanie Williams.  She  and also Lisa Draper from TLC.  They  are two  professionals who work closely with with children, with our community. TLC has become a partner with the Claremont School District.  They have shared resources with us, and I look forward to  continuing that relationship. And let me just say, it's not just only tock, but this is not a school district issue. This is our community's issue. And so we're not to be effective. We need to partner and we need to expand that partnership. So I've asked what I've asked Melanie if she could just share share her experiences with you to provide us with a better understanding of this challenge.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R9098-72] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> So I'm Melanie Williams, I'm. A clinical. Supervisor at TLC Family Resource Center here in town. I've been at TLC for ten years. I am a licensed clinical mental health counselor and but have been doing home visiting, and I'm in the community. I'm seeing what's happening, and definitely there are some things that we can work on. We just showed resilience. I know a lot of people probably couldn't make it and we're going to show it again. But has anyone heard of that resilience, the biology of stress and the science of hope. And it's an amazing movie. And it talks about adverse childhood experiences, which are things like being abused or neglected as a child, having a parent incarcerated,  parents who divorce or separate things that you and I all see all the time. Right? But it can have an effect on kids. And these are prevalent. I have little notes that I wrote on blue paper, so I can't see them, but 67% of people who were surveyed in this, a study had at least one adverse childhood experience. So that's not just Claremont. This was done in California and it is a nationwide problem. And so what can we do. Right.  We had and what have I seen.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: So we had more than 60 people come to see resilience, which is amazing. And that tells me that we have an engaged community. Right. And you all would probably

[R9098-73] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: people who were surveyed in this, a study had at least one adverse childhood experience. So that's not just Claremont. This was done in California and it is a nationwide problem. And so what can we do. Right. We had and what have I seen.
TEXT> So we had more than 60 people come to see resilience, which is amazing. And that tells me that we have an engaged community. Right. And you all would probably like to see it too. So we're going to screen it at some point. We're working on that here in Claremont and also in Newport, because Newport wants the information too. But it is it is happening here. I'm going into homes where, you know, people are wondering where their next meal is coming from, or I'm going to get, you know, a food box from the food pantry. Housing is unstable. Maybe one parent is struggling with mental illness. That's another one of the ACS. Or there's the opioid crisis. I'm sure you're all aware of that. So we're seeing that too. So it is happening. And if you can imagine being a kid in that environment, it's going to be pretty hard to listen in school if that's what you're doing, what you're experiencing at home. Right. So what can we do so we can be informed? You all have access to information about Aces. So you can read about that and you can know about them.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: And we can spread that information to the community as well, because it shouldn't just be professionals who know about it. It should be everyone. Because if knowledge is power,

[R9098-82] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thanks, Corey.
TEXT> It is. It's a hugely important topic. And I, I admit I was kind of conflicted when I, when I saw that the topic because it's, it's another situation where as a school, we're being asked to really get involved in social issues. However,  when I saw the list, you know, what I want to say about this topic is it's not an income issue. It's not a specific household issue. It's not a stereotypical issue. Because when I saw the list, I suffered from eight out of ten well before 18 years old. And the point to that is I grew up in a time when you kept the secret on the, you know, I always looked at it, we looked like the Waltons from the outside and we were in the Manson's on the inside. And you know, I didn't start dealing with these issues until I was in my 40s. Had someone when I was a child maybe done some. Who knows. But the reason I go here, I've rekindled the relationship with my fifth grade teacher from 36 years ago. We were having a conversation. We first started talking, he said it was happening when I was in his class at 11 years old, and he said he knew something was happening. He had it in a journal, but back then you weren't allowed to.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So it's a hugely important and it's important for people to not feel intimidated by it and be able to speak about it. It took me a long time to

[R9098-87] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: strategies, but you still might not know. Right. Like somebody I've been doing this work for 15 years and still people say things to me and I'm just not sure how to respond sometimes. But just being there and saying I heard you is enough.
TEXT> And honestly, the biggest gift of all is knowing you're not alone. Yeah, some of us grow up. I think when people go through, especially children, they develop this concept of terminal uniqueness and shame and shame, remorse, fear, and at least to a lot of other issues as you grow up as an adult, untreated. And so I think that's the message is you have to reach out for help. And if you see something, don't walk past it. Stop it. Help!
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Exactly. We've been able to do a community film series, and I think that our timing has been a little off because there's conflicts with, you know, baseball and other

[R9098-96] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris Irish: Something. Yeah. That way you could go at it any anytime you wanted to be a lot more access that way.
TEXT> The one thing I want to say that that Melanie said that that. I really. Keyed on, that there is. Hope. That and that this isn't a parents problem or a grandparents problem. This is our problem and that it is a community issue.  And again, as you as Melanie said, it's not about Claremont. It's about where we are in our in our society today. But the reason I wanted to discuss it  is to I agree with Rebecca. We need to talk about this because it's real and it's a challenge. But then besides talking about it, let's make some plans to continue this conversation and then to talk about how we can improve our capacity to assist children. And when I say children, I'm talking about every child, every child, because every child is impacted as well as the faculty and the school community. So I want to thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Frank, just. I'm sorry. Everybody's jumping in ahead of me. Oh, I, I heard you mentioned West Central Behavioral Services, and which ends to me, based on what Middleton just

[R9098-98] Melanie Williams | Clinical supervisor, TLC Family Resource Center (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: do this. But are you available to, to assist us when we start looking at a needs analysis? Because I know we have some I know we have some interventionists in the schools now, but this is pretty specific types of, of of trauma really.
TEXT> So there's evidence based practices that can help with trauma. And I'm trained in one of them child parent psychotherapy which I've been doing for eight years. And it is amazing. So it's a year long treatment weekly kind of because nobody can come in weekly but with a dyad. So working on that relationship between the parent and the child and a lot of work is done, not just the parent. It could be any caregiver, but working on where that caregiver has come from and how they're triggered in that relationship based on their own experiences, and helping that child to express their trauma and be heard and figure out ways to move on and cope. So there are evidence based practices, and people are trained at West Central to do those. So that's a higher level. But these, you know, adverse childhood experiences we can help with those. Right. We can help minimize the effects on the heart and the behavior of adverse childhood experiences. If somebody in the classroom is going through a parent being divorced and it's not necessarily traumatic, they're not fearful that they're going to die or someone they love is going to die. That's trauma, right? But they are troubled by it. That's where we can help. But that's a good point.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I worry about relying too much on West Central. I've seen a lot of people whose particular insurance situations prevent them from accessing that. So. I'd like to know that

[R9098-104] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Your answer raised another concern with me in that we're going to train our existing personnel to do it.
TEXT> So no, not I said that, but that's not exactly,  train our existing personnel to help us create trauma sensitive schools, not to provide that direct clinical support, but to help us create environments that are more conducive to support students who have these needs, and then sourcing grant funds to get the clinical staff in place in order to support the individual students. We've done a little bit with the System of Care grant. We just hired our project manager. She started Monday.  The next position that we're going to be posting is for a social worker, wraparound facilitator.  There is somebody from TLC and West Central and a few other organizations who are sitting on that leadership committee for that project. And so that's a step in the right direction. But we we need more veteran..
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: At some point, I'd like to get some some kind of clinical feedback. Speaking to this, what Corey was just talking about. I think one of my, I guess, one

[R9098-108] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: Michelle.
TEXT> I just want to stay to Frank's comment. There are other counseling.  There's actually, the building counselors, they work with different adolescents and children also who accept,  help through state or other funding insurances. So there are a couple out there in the West Central. So this is this is a very sensitive subject for me. I happen to be dealing with this right now, actually, due to my daughter's incarceration and, and my grandson living with me. So please have to forgive me for my emotional moment.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I want to I want to thank you. This is this is an important discussion. I think I look back to when I was growing up in, I don't think

[R9098-109] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Michelle Pierce: West Central. So this is this is a very sensitive subject for me. I happen to be dealing with this right now, actually, due to my daughter's incarceration and, and my grandson living with me. So please have to forgive me for my emotional moment.
TEXT> I want to I want to thank you. This is this is an important discussion. I think I look back to when I was growing up in, I don't think this was  something like Chris head was discussed. Right.  I, I dealt with it  as a child. And, you know, looking back, I can I can identify those teachers that,  now, they knew something was going on, and. If nothing else, to be able to get teachers. To have them learn ways to identify and even even relate, if nothing else, just to be able to be there for, for for a kid,  you know, fire, police departments. They go into to households and it's there, it's there, there's there's a lot of a lot more poverty these days  than there were than there was even 20 years ago. And and that, that has that has an effect on kids. Definitely. But but I am glad that we're, we're we're discussing this. I'm glad that the schools are doing something because  I. Just to have have somebody there for a kid  is  a lot.
NEXT> Melanie Williams: And if they need more support, knowing where they could get it right. So you don't have to carry the burden by yourself. Right. As a teacher.

[R9098-111] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Melanie Williams: And if they need more support, knowing where they could get it right. So you don't have to carry the burden by yourself. Right. As a teacher.
TEXT> Well, and that and that I think is to me is a big piece of the solution. And the hope piece of this is putting them with people that have been through it that maybe are outside their their authority stream. You know, people like those of us that have been through it even all these years. I the school I work at, I've talked to kids. You can you can tell and they'll come out and you talk and they know they have someone they can just talk to, nothing else, just to talk about something. And then you get them to the right people that can help them with, you know, the support group to me. I'm a big believer in the support group side. That's a huge piece of the puzzle. When all is said and done, one on one with therapists, it's expensive and it's it can help. But being in the room with someone that's been through it, that's the strength, the strength in people helping each other for, you know, and that's the strength that gives you the freedom to talk about it when you feel safe because someone else has been through it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Right. I think that whatever we develop, to me, that's got to be a big piece of it. And those of us in the community need to step up and

[R9098-114] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: not a system in place on how to deal with that after, I think all the best efforts in the world might go down the tube if we're if we're all not on the same page as to how to how to deal with that.
TEXT> Rebecca. Thank you. I will tell you, my experience is in the past six years have been that our elementary, middle and high school faculty and administration  have been  had been doing a Youmans gentleman's job, and have developed strategies. But it's to a point now and the severity of it now that we need assistance. And when I say assistance, I'm not talking about sending a child out. I'm talking about bringing just hours that Frank said. Looking at our budget and how we can address this need long term, long term.  And so that being said, I want to this is not going to be resolved tonight, but we've discussed it publicly. We're going to bring this back because it's real. And every student and every faculty member and the families  are working together over time will address this. And, Melanie, the agreement was that she could she could come, but she has another obligation that deals with young children. So I.
NEXT> Allison: Was watching her.

[R9098-130] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So what you have is.
TEXT> A  in front of you is a five year comparison,  of our out of district costs. So if you look at 2017,  we are estimated at this point to come in about 2.1 million  as compared to last year at  2.5 million in 2015, we were at 2.1 million. 2014 we were at 2.2 million 1013 we were 2.4. So. I don't want to get lost in the numbers so much because we have worked really hard the past couple of years to refine our processes. Between myself and my out of district coordinator, Dave Cochran, who is also here tonight, to specifically look at the processes for how kids are going out of district. And also our focus has been on do we have the right conditions in which to bring kids back? And,  I would like to think  it is once a once a student goes out, the research nationally is very clear. It is it is very difficult to bring them back. And with that said,  you know, Dave and I have been pretty successful working with,  the various schools, with the high school, with the middle school to bring some of these kiddos back in here because we've had the the right conditions in which to do that, one being the Alt program  at the high school.
NEXT> Chris: So we've been successful to bring some kids back from into that program. So I think we're starting to see in the drop in the numbers here in terms of

[R9098-133] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: And we.
TEXT> There are some very, very significant mental health needs. If we're going to seriously think about continuing to educate kids in our district who have these needs, we need to think in a much extremely different way about how to meet those needs.  And we will talk more and more about,  how to do that. You have  and what we're seeing across the state is  these out of district placements, there are no more placements. There's no more room at the end. You have programs. We're seeing unprecedented numbers across the state from all these other school districts as well, who are experiencing the same things as we are. It's not terminally unique in Claremont. Here. Every other school district across the state is experiencing the same things, and there is a massive influx of students who are going into our district placements at this point, and there are no rooms. And so you have these programs who are who are right now retooling to expand for next year. So Dave and I have run into several situations this year where we've got between 5 and 7 kids right now. Who would we consider to be extremely at risk students who would benefit from and out of district placement? Because we don't have the capacity to deal with what?
NEXT> Chris: And we're not talking about education because what we're talking about here is containment versus education. And so for a lot of these students, we're we're containing them, but we're

[R9098-137] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris: to seriously look at restructuring to prevent some of these kiddos from going out, we're going to need some significant mental health support in the school districts, boots on the ground to sort of set that up and how we get there, I'm not sure.
TEXT> But that's that's part of why we're having this, this discussion. And the other thing is we have recently met with Newport.  Newport is also experiencing the same thing at this point. So we are looking at  between the two districts, we're looking at possible space. We're looking at maybe trying to set up something for the fall. And again,  it's it's if we can if we can set a program up and we can prevent kids from going out. I think that's where the, that's where and when we can bring kids back, when it's appropriate, how we get there. At this point, I'm not sure. We just have we've had one meeting with them. There's there's a lot of interest in moving forward with that.  First place is to first thing is to do is to identify an available space. And we all know that here in Claremont  within our school space and,  you know, often, you know, it it is it is at a premium right now. So it is very difficult to find a space to have a program to meet the needs of emotionally disturbed kids. Yeah.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I if I may.

[R9098-250] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: get them, you get them connected with people. You it's really a, an induction process into the school district to help them get situated and get ready to do their work. So I don't know if Charlie, you want to talk some more about that.
TEXT> Yeah.  Patrick, to get to your question specifically. If you go back. Three. To. Four years ago. Technology really wasn't utilized within the curriculum across the board. And if you take a look at your your curriculum, people, if you speak with them, they'll tell you that a huge investment has been made in supporting things like language arts with programs like Reading Wonders. So reading wonders is a product that's used in our elementary schools, and there is an online component to that. And a lot of our teachers use that for visualization purposes,  where they're throwing stuff up on the board from a laptop or from a Chromebook where students might be given a story. It could even be a text to speech situation. And then the student will have to predict the outcome. So using Smartboard activities by using some type of interactive gaming through reading wonders, that's enhancing your curriculum. And what's nice about that, right, is one of the things that we know is that we haven't had consistency in a curriculum. So if you have, let's say, a grade three classroom at Maple, you would want the same type of  learning environment for grade three at bluff, grade three at Disney. So what a product like reading wonders gives us is more consistency across the board.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: And when you have the staff turnover also that we've had the past, let's say 3 to 5 years, as Josh just mentioned, with the onboarding process, it's easier for

[R9098-251] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: So if you have, let's say, a grade three classroom at Maple, you would want the same type of learning environment for grade three at bluff, grade three at Disney. So what a product like reading wonders gives us is more consistency across the board.
TEXT> And when you have the staff turnover also that we've had the past, let's say 3 to 5 years, as Josh just mentioned, with the onboarding process, it's easier for our staff to come in and become adopted when you basically have a curriculum that's right there that can be implemented. That's not to say that they don't put in their own legwork, but obviously all the tools that they need are right there. We also do the same thing with math and focus. So math and focus is something that we're using again at the elementary level. And there are online components to that. Okay. The other big piece that you're I think you're all aware of from last year is there was a huge amount of money spent on I ready. So I know you've had the elementary principals in this year at various times to look at the results of I ready test scores. So I know that basically approximately an hour per week I know is the goal for students to work with that product in both English as well as in math.  45 minutes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Content area.

[R9098-253] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Content area.
TEXT> So, so between those three products alone, you're getting a lot of technology push at the elementary level. Then we could also discuss the basic technology curriculum. So at the K-5 level, students go in once a week for technology. A lot of that is focused on basically 3 to 4 major components typing skills, digital citizenship, which I've spoken about a few years ago. When I first came in, were using Common Sense Media.  We are also using  a product called typing.com, which is an online resource for students to learn their keyboarding skills. Google is obviously the other big push. That's our third and the fourth one that we're just starting to get into now is coding, and we're starting to use activities via code.org. At the middle school level. They have a 22 day curriculum specific for grades six, seven and eight, again predominantly centered around Google Drive. So in grade six, again with the digital citizenship component as well. So you have at grade six, it's pretty much Google Docs. Grade seven is pretty much Google presentations. Grade eight is pretty much Google Spreadsheets or we're also Paul is now also getting into more coding.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So what we're trying to do is build upon what we did with the our code the first couple of years, do more with Code.org. And now what's happening is

[R9098-256] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: well as what we're trying to do now, getting the new tech curriculum off the ground at the high school. So those are all the things that are currently, you know, happening. I can answer any more specific questions on curriculum if you have them.
TEXT> Well, I guess I was thinking, since, you know, with Chrome, with the, you know, with the law of the Chrome, I think docs and everything. What it's collaborate. It's designed for collaboration. There's also you know, with I know with blogging and there's some, some good opportunities for  how the students can start working collaboratively. And as you mentioned that I'm I'm really glad you did. Are we kind of do we have anything right now where we were we kind of or  our. Use kind of, I guess, kind of enhancing collaborative learning through the technology, or is that something we're kind of working on to develop?
NEXT> Josh Malloy: Fortunately, G suite has been very, very helpful in doing that. So we're already doing it. I think we need to do more of it. I just heard a story

[R9098-259] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Josh Malloy: So, yeah, we're already doing a lot with Google Classroom. I know there's a lot of.
TEXT> Yeah, I was going to mention Google. Google classroom is a great, leverage point for our staff. Again, it's very it's obviously it's free. And, from the management side for both the teachers as well as the students. It's it's great. The sharing of docs is definitely happening across classrooms, depending upon the situation and the curriculum area and the other new thing that you're going to see taking off that just got released, maybe just about a month ago is team drives. So team drives also allow for us to to start sharing information in a completely different way than just sharing docs. So that's something that we're also going to start exploring and looking into.
NEXT> Unidentified: Another.

[R9098-261] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Another.
TEXT> Another way that we're able to leverage Google is if we with our writing curriculum, for instance, the consultant that we use has a daily rate that we pay as you would with any consultant to come. They teach us. She's been working with us for a number of years, teaching us in the writing workshop process, and has helped to develop curriculum. She's in Missouri, she's on the Google platform. She communicates with our teachers on the Google Platform, comments on the lesson plans that they've written, comments on, student exemplars and things of that nature. And it's all done through the use of technology at times. I mean, she's she's literally in a different time zone. So it's done in a way that is collaborative and professional. And so thinking of it from the resource end of things, we pay her daily rate when she's here, but that's a lot of other support that we're getting from somebody.  Because we're able to leverage technology in such a way. So it's it's been huge for us.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So, Charlie, this is your third year, right?

[R9098-264] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: Yeah.
TEXT> So you've seen, have you? I trust your judgment. You, you you know, you and I have worked together. You've seen a significant growth in people's use of technology and and not just using it, but engaging kids with more engaging lessons.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: And so all right, so.

[R9098-269] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Charlie Gessner: doing a full week in late July. I've already gone on record to staff and said, call me up. Email me if you want to come in during the summer, just do one on one stuff. Will do one on one after school. We do.
TEXT> I just want to be a devil's advocate too as well though, because I, I think about time in general. So when you talk about teachers being able to implement new technology and new programs and new plans and new websites and all of that, that kind of stuff for them takes time to learn it, to be able to use it and interact  well with the students. And a lot of times, they don't have it and, and they have family that they want to be with on the weekend or  in the summer. So I applaud you. And I remember you, you used to help me a lot. I just want to say that, but I also just want to recognize, even though we all know it, that that is time is time.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: I agree with you. And I want to just I want to just piggyback on that for a second. And I think if you've lived in Claremont a while, you

[R9098-270] Charlie Gessner | Technology integrationist, SAU 6 (ASR 'Charlie Gessner', spelling unve | 2017-05-17
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: weekend or in the summer. So I applaud you. And I remember you, you used to help me a lot. I just want to say that, but I also just want to recognize, even though we all know it, that that is time is time.
TEXT> I agree with you. And I want to just I want to just piggyback on that for a second. And I think if you've lived in Claremont a while, you know, this, the teaching staff that you had here 10 to 15 years ago when I was here is not the teaching staff that you have today. And what I mean by that is a lot of our staff were local. A lot of our staff now travel an hour to get to work and go home. So when you say come to a workshop at 330 in the afternoon and stay for an hour and a half to two hours, that's a challenge. If you've got young kids at home, it's not like they can just pop home and, you know, be home in 5 minutes or 10 minutes because they live in Claremont. So that's a challenge. And one of the things that I was happy to see, and I'm hoping we're going to take advantage of it next year, is that when I looked at the calendar, we're starting to have more of those half days built in because we're going to have, you know, teacher, I'm assuming professional development opportunities and I'm hoping and I'm being greedy and this this will be myself.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: Sales pitch on the tech side is I want that time. Give me give me that time in a building. And this way it doesn't require staff any additional time

[R9098-289] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: You were emailed the program studies after I emailed the agenda last week to you. That's going to be reviewing the specific changes as we prepare for 1718.
TEXT> One of the things I wanted to point out to you is a qualifying statement that, at the advice of Christine Downing, we've put on the front cover and this hasn't gone to print yet. We haven't had it bound yet. We're hoping to be more digital this year.  Produce fewer bound copies  and reduce our printing costs significantly. But we have this little codicil on the front that says the purpose of this family and student handbook program of studies is designed to inform you about Stephen's High School. We urge you to read it carefully. Become familiar with the information presented. If there's a conflict between the handbook slash POS and a district policy, the Claremont School policy will govern and the administration reserves the right to revise the handbook program of studies at any time without notice. The most current handbook POS may be found on the essay and school websites. The purpose of that is  not to go ahead. And once you've publicly approved this, to go ahead and turn it into a different document. But there are times when, policies change, internal decisions are made that then don't get reflected in what was  reviewed and approved  back a year before.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we feel it. Kathleen Christine thought it was very important, and I have to agree with her that this is a living document, more so than than ever, and

[R9098-290] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: to go ahead. And once you've publicly approved this, to go ahead and turn it into a different document. But there are times when, policies change, internal decisions are made that then don't get reflected in what was reviewed and approved back a year before.
TEXT> And we feel it. Kathleen Christine thought it was very important, and I have to agree with her that this is a living document, more so than than ever, and we need to have that kind of flexibility to, to update it, so that it reflects current decision making policies. There's not a whole lot that's really different. Some of it is formatting. Hopefully it's easier to read, easier to access, but some of the the things that I think are that are necessary to in our,  important for the public to know our diploma options. We we have three we have the state standard, which is our 20 credit, the district standard, which is the 23, and then our Diploma of distinction, which is our 27. Those those credits haven't changed the total number of credits. However, the makeup has changed slightly. We've reduced the 4.0 social studies requirement, the four credits of social studies down to 3.5,  and that matches still with state scholars, the Hampshire State Scholars. And we've added another half credit to the electives.  So that that switch has been made. We did reduce our social studies staff by one this year,  and we revisited this and we said we really want to make sure that students are are obviously meeting the state requirements.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But in our highest diploma, making sure that they're meeting New Hampshire State Scholars requirements. And that is at 3.5. So we felt comfortable making that change. What you'll also

[R9098-291] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: half credit to the electives. So that that switch has been made. We did reduce our social studies staff by one this year, and we revisited this and we said we really want to make sure that students are are obviously meeting the state requirements.
TEXT> But in our highest diploma, making sure that they're meeting New Hampshire State Scholars requirements. And that is at 3.5. So we felt comfortable making that change.  What you'll also see on the cover is we've drastically increased the number in our legend. On the front, we have a legend that dictates and shows which classes and courses are honors and Advanced Placement course, which are NCAA eligibility approved courses? Which ones are running star courses, which means that students can get college credit for them because they align with college course requirements and are taught by teachers with master's degrees, and also whether they're eligible for a math embedded credit. So we know that the state of New Hampshire, back in the summer of 15, said that students needed to have access to math competencies every year of their high school education. So a student may have four credits but go into their senior year. And now what do they do? They still have to have access to a course that has a math competencies embedded in them. So what we did is we went to our science department, we went to our CTE courses and we said, please articulate.  We we did a map curriculum mapping which courses could double as math  competency courses and those have that identification.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Now also we've added entire page here which has the the student checklist for state minimum graduation requirements. And it breaks it down by discipline. How many credits and what

[R9098-292] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: embedded in them. So what we did is we went to our science department, we went to our CTE courses and we said, please articulate. We we did a map curriculum mapping which courses could double as math competency courses and those have that identification.
TEXT> Now also we've added entire page here which has the the student checklist for state minimum graduation requirements. And it breaks it down  by discipline.  How many credits and what is in those different core components, so that a student is not going to come out of Stevens High School missing any graduation requirements for the state of New Hampshire. And that includes Owls program, ALS program. We are now doing a forensic check on every single transcript to ensure that, it meets that. And this is just an easier visual for us to be able to do that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Two.

[R9098-294] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Two.
TEXT> Two I'm just looking at some places where we've changed things. We changed the wording in last year's POS around AP courses. What's up? We were requiring students to take the AP exam.  We've changed that to  we are expecting students to take it,  not requiring it. Subtle but important difference. We have added layers of English at the 12th grade college prep that didn't exist before. We've taken college comp and turned it into a weighted honors course. So students have some other options. If they want a rigorous 12th grade English experience that isn't a P, they now have some options. Before it was taking 12 general English or I'm taking AP. It was the only game in town, so we've given them some other options. And so  we've also talked a lot about guidance being very specific in talking with students about what they're getting into when they take an AP course. Why is it important to take the test? But we also recognize that not all students feel that it's important to take the test. So we  we're not requiring it. What I'd like to get to the point is we have money in the budget to help support students financially with AP tests or any other assessment. But I'd like to get to the point where we have enough money in our budget so that we could pay for any student who takes an AP test. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: $87.

[R9098-297] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: I think it's actually now up to 92, and they've taken away the option for a reduced cost.
TEXT> What is the problem if a student wants to take an AP course but not the AP test? I mean, I took I was mostly AP classes, but I just wasn't. I just want to take the class.  Is there a problem. I mean I know you're, you say expecting them to but,  but why can't they just take an AP level course without the test.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We want to, we want to ensure that the internal assessments in our AP courses are as rigorous as what the AP test is going to be. I'm not sure

[R9098-298] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: took I was mostly AP classes, but I just wasn't. I just want to take the class. Is there a problem. I mean I know you're, you say expecting them to but, but why can't they just take an AP level course without the test.
TEXT> We want to, we want to ensure that the internal assessments in our AP courses are as rigorous as what the AP test is going to be.  I'm not sure that we're 100% there yet. So we have to our our teachers create the curriculum. It has to get vetted by the college board to make sure that it meets their standards. The College Board gives its end of the course assessment, which is often and we've talked about this in a 4x4. It's often a semester after the course ends. So  there's that difficulty. But we've like our AP chemistry teacher, shall meet with students during February break. April break. She meets with them twice a week and flex to keep them on top of things before taking the test. But in talking with teachers and we had a very robust conversation about this, they feel that part of the AP experience is in having them experience that assessment, that level of assessment. We get feedback from students who go off to college that we at Stephens have not necessarily prepared them for the intensity of college level exams. So that's part of it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: You know, that if you're if you're going to have the AP experience, that three hour intense assessment at the end of it is there's value in that. And I

[R9098-299] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: the AP experience is in having them experience that assessment, that level of assessment. We get feedback from students who go off to college that we at Stephens have not necessarily prepared them for the intensity of college level exams. So that's part of it.
TEXT> You know, that if you're if you're going to have the AP experience, that three hour intense  assessment at the end of it is there's value in that.  And I think it's, it's a selfishly take the student out of it. Selfishly, it's a good way to, to determine and make sure that our teachers are ensuring the rigor in the way they're teaching their AP classes. So it's it's helpful on that end. But we as we're beginning now with, with Christine's help in the curriculum work that's being done, we have to ensure that all of our AP curriculum and assessments, because that's where they're getting their grade. They're not getting their grade from that AP test, the teachers giving them that grade. And we have to ensure that those are all meeting the same college board.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yeah, I guess I was trying to see what the difference was between the AP class and this, I guess this other option that's not AP that.

[R9098-303] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: He said that you created was was that well, you said that you it wasn't being for English. You said that.
TEXT> Before kids only had 12 general English or AP. Those were their two choices if they were in the 12th grade.  Now we've created a higher level college prep, 12 English,  and we've also looked at if a student wants to take college comp, they have to come to me with their transcript and I sign off on that so that there's a vetting process for the college comp as well. So that's now an honors level. The rigor of that courses has increased because we know the value of students writing well and and writing at a college level in their senior year, preparing them for that. What what's ahead of them. So now they have those other options. It's not just the two two trick pony that that existed several years ago. Now they have these other rigorous courses to choose from. So we're hoping that when they take an AP exam or the exam, when they take sign up for the AP course, they know all their options and they know here are the pros and cons about being an AP. You're the pros and cons of the other choices.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay, thanks.

[R9098-305] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: Okay, thanks.
TEXT> And we haven't done we didn't do a good job of advertising that to kids in the past and making it clear to them what those choices were.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So the. Students have had, had. Have had access to this for a while.

[R9098-306] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: And we haven't done we didn't do a good job of advertising that to kids in the past and making it clear to them what those choices were.
TEXT> So the. Students have had, had. Have had access to this for a while.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Yes. Since January. Yeah. In different iterations. Okay.

[R9098-312] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: page that outlines exactly it's page four, and it shows you what the State Scholar Standard Core Courses study is. We're that and then some in our 27 credit diploma. And I guess I hear what part of your question is why the then some.
TEXT> I guess I guess, yeah, for me, to me and I guess the a difference I saw that, you know, we describe it the message to college bound students is rigorous course load. And I looked at Lebanon's and it said challenging content of study or challenging program of study. And they also mentioned that there's a lot more than just your academic GPA that they kind of makes. And I guess I like the way that they explained it. It was more like if what I would hear as a student, you know, you need to kind of  be balanced.  There's a lot to to factor in. But I didn't see that, that that emphasis on quantitative number of courses. I mean, I'd rather see challenging coursework and not necessarily have to push as maximum credits.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: They are.

[R9098-317] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: is. They know what the prize is. They know what has to happen in there. And then I think we do do a good job of saying, but I don't emphasize GPA, you know, take band, take chorus, take theater, take art, don't take courses.
TEXT> Don't sign up for stuff because it's weighted. Because you're looking for a magical number, because colleges less and less are really looking at that. They're less and less looking in numbers. They want a diverse kid. They want a student who's tried a lot going out of their comfort zone is has been  an athlete and a musician and all of that. That's what's appeals to them. They want a multi multilayered kid on their campus. So I think we've done a good job of de-emphasizing GPA and really emphasizing a variety of experiences.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So I see. What you're saying. If they if, if they were to choose that path, if they're for that thing or scholar this way, it ensures that they will

[R9098-325] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: Yellows extended learning opportunity. So if it's if a student wants to take Mandarin Chinese, we're not offering it. But they don't want to do either. But there's somebody who can teach them Mandarin Chinese in the community. We'll set up an ELO for them.
TEXT> The elbows are as rigorous, if not more,  as we've now implemented them in the school. What a student has to do, the competencies, all of that. It's pretty intense, but it's a really layered experience. Samantha Woodman is building an entire or has built an entire sugar shed from scratch.  What she's learned on building this I mean,  her own two hands is amazing. Done it through an ELO. So we're we're giving kids a lot more opportunities to follow their passions or take things that they're learning out there in the world and then giving them credit for it because they're learning experiences that are happening outside the walls, often of Steven's high school.  And they should be credited for that work and shown different ways that they can learn. That's not necessarily in a classroom. So pretty excited about our ellos.
NEXT> Chris: Couple, a. Couple of kids. Who are, doing yellows in, in pre-K.

[R9098-326] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: for it because they're learning experiences that are happening outside the walls, often of Steven's high school. And they should be credited for that work and shown different ways that they can learn. That's not necessarily in a classroom. So pretty excited about our ellos.
TEXT> Couple, a. Couple of kids. Who are, doing yellows in, in pre-K.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R9098-328] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (surname unclear; ASR 'Chris Bezos', | 2017-05-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Trying to, you know, to figure out if child care or something that they  want to go into for a career. So.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Right. So they're working in the pre-K program as an elbow. Absolutely. What we used to call Catch the Wave, which is our dual enrollment program with River Valley Community

[R9098-485] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: And it was the.
TEXT> The school that decided  to have traffic flow that way. Yeah. For picking up kids.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So yeah.

[R9098-490] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Neighborhood of speeders or is it people trying to circumvent the school and.
TEXT> No people lining up, people going to pick up their kids from school?
NEXT> Chris: Those parents.

[R9098-496] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-05-17
PREV> Chris Irish: And that's that's been a while because I took my granddaughter there when she was going there.
TEXT> Now I think I think that's the biggest concern is after most kids have already been picked up. So thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R9098-509] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - 'Michael'  | 2017-05-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: have that available. And then, they'll go to class the next day. So some of the students are seniors. This is the week before. Graduation, so it's coming up shortly. It's June 4th and fifth, I believe. And so that's all being taken into account.
TEXT> How many students are there?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I, I honestly, I can't speak to the number of students in national honor Society.

[R9098-510] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: How many students are there?
TEXT> I, I honestly, I can't speak to the number of students in national honor Society.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But solely behind the school, like behind this building.

[R9098-514] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - 'Michael'  | 2017-05-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: And the soccer field.
TEXT> We just came through all the time. Project challenge kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Is there anything else you want to add from when they've done it in the past, Frank, that you're aware of?

[R9128-9] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> All in favor? Okay. And student representatives report.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: So I'm going to take this up there on the podium.

[R9128-15] Mary Ann Lovett | Student representative to the school board (ASR 'Mary Ann love it', 'M | 2017-05-31
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: others speaking more than some cutting people off and an apparent lack of respect. I hope next year the board will follow this more strictly and ask themselves if what they are about to say has been said, or if they should even say it.
TEXT> Thankfully, doctor McGowan sends out an email prior to the schoolroom meeting saying the topics I will be discussed and action items needed to be met. This allows time for the school board members to research any topics  or items of interest. Coming fully prepared to the meeting. Unfortunately, this does not always happen. Two to often I have heard questions ask that minor research or preparation would have answered spending precious time the board has. It is frustrating to not only me, but members of the public, appearing as if the members are not well informed. I understand time is spares, but by becoming a school board member, one takes on that commitment. Without research, how can one truly comprehend the decisions they are about to make? I would like to take a moment and to reflect on what the school board is. The school board is a governing body with the purpose of regulating policies for all of saw six. The role is to ensure that students are getting most of their education that the taxpayers are funding. It's important to remember the board's responsibility, or else boundaries will be crossed and lines will be faded when having discussions and making decisions. I hope the conclusions follow that.
NEXT> Mary Ann Lovett: This includes a joint discussions with the City Council. The items discussed must have common ground between both bodies and the ability to promote change, or else it is a

[R9128-21] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Anybody else?
TEXT> I just have one if I may. So what Mary Ann love it had represented tonight is is I think one of the indicators of a of a of a strong school district that it welcomes constructive criticism. It welcomes the student voice because this school district, any school district really wasn't created for adults, was created by students. And so it's important that they had the opportunity to express themselves. And it's important that we reflect.  And so I want to thank you. And  I hope that this is the beginning of ongoing opportunities for students to be a part  of improving their school district. It's not the adults, it's really theirs.  And they are clientele. So Mary Ann, thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Superintendents report.

[R9128-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: a good night and we can have a full board to be able to just represent that to the kids. I think it's awesome. I'm not looking for us to actually have a place on the agenda, just more of a seat on the stage.
TEXT> There will definitely be seats on the stage, but, I think it does give a very positive comment to the community because school board members, as Marion Lovett just said, and as you all know this, your position is very important and your position not only impacts our employees, our teachers, but actually every student. So I think it's very appropriate for school board to be visible if they can.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, I'd like to see as many of us as possible. I do plan to go to the awards night the night before as well, because that's really awesome to

[R9128-39] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: minutes get done right. That's all. Thank you Mary. Yeah that's a big reminder alumni coming up. So please come out. Anybody else on the citizens forum? Okay, so we're back to discussion items. I will turn it over to doctor McGovern for food service.
TEXT> As you all know, this this evening is is dedicated exclusively, the exception of the CT CCTV board food service. And we have two food service companies, vendors, very well known throughout this area, Fresh Picks Cafe and the Abbey Group. They are here to make presentations. I did send you electronic copies of what Corey LeClaire is sending out. And tonight's opportunity is to listen and to ask questions.  As I indicated to you last week, electronically in the email when I sent the agenda, is that after tonight's meeting, a food service committee is going to meet Michelle Pierce and Brian Rapp, represent the school board. Lisa Ellie Filene, Cheryl Ferland, Sarah Ferland, Renee Flint,  are representing faculty. We've heard from the students and and their their responsibility is to meet and to have a candidate give and take reviewing the RFP and any information that we have from both companies. And then they'll come back with a recommendation. But the final decision will be the school boards. And so tonight it's not a decision time. Tonight is a is a learning time a give and take opportunity. And I welcome Fresh Picks Cafe and I welcome the Abbey Group. I would ask, however, if Mike O'Neill could just a bit about the process,  the request for proposal and where we are with that. Before we begin, if you could serve. Okay.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: So the process is is a long process, as we all know, because we've been going through it for a while. The first thing we do is we we prepare

[R9128-53] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (spelling unverified) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: are not working well. And of course there is always one at the bottom. But the, you know, the kids vote with their feet on certain items, you know, and also sometimes, you know, years ago something was popular and it's fallen out of favor.
TEXT> And yeah. How often do you meet with student advisory committees?
NEXT> Nina Hansen: It's usually monthly. So as long as the advisory committee is there, if if we have to start, one might take a couple of, you know, a couple of months

[R9128-65] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: Both of the companies are providing a no cost program. So that should be some money available to reinvest back into the programs. But we are able to operate without costing the district any money with all of our choices that were for presenting today.
TEXT> This one is one Brian asked me to ask it what you kind of mentioned about. What do you envision for educational opportunities for students?
NEXT> Nina Hansen: Are we talking about the tax center specifically or.

[R9128-67] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: Are we talking about the tax center specifically or.
TEXT> In general tax center be great, but anything that gives a student an opportunity to get an education in the culinary field or work with you guys for you guys, whatever the options.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: And yeah, go ahead. So yeah, there you go.

[R9128-79] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: real reason that they should be out of money. But occasionally there are cases where they forget to send in money, and our online payment system interacts, reporting sale instantaneously. As soon as they put money on, it goes right on their account. It's live.
TEXT> Some parents ask us to call them, you know, when the account gets to a certain balance.  So I'm the same with you. If I have four kids, it doesn't take long to for my balance to drop pretty quickly and  having a notification, even before what Scott was talking about the automatic.  We also make phone calls to parents who say you're low on your account. But Scott said we never take any meals away from students, and we follow the board's direction on the charge policy.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm looking at school board policies. There is one that you'll be working on this summer. It's called meal charging. That's in response to a recent law that's been RSA

[R9128-80] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Nina Hansen: notification, even before what Scott was talking about the automatic. We also make phone calls to parents who say you're low on your account. But Scott said we never take any meals away from students, and we follow the board's direction on the charge policy.
TEXT> I'm looking at school board policies. There is one that you'll be working on this summer. It's called meal charging. That's in response to a recent law that's been RSA in New Hampshire that deals with the challenge of students  and food. And there'll be a protocol that's established, that's expected of school districts. So we certainly would be working with our our vendor. But excuse me, Corey, but we want to be obviously in compliance  with, with state statute. It it's been a challenge nationwide. What your point because of of a variety of reasons.  But there are clear guidelines now that districts are expected to follow and you'll be a part of that decision process.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Mike.

[R9128-86] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - superintendent at [684] cre | 2017-05-31
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And it will be in the board's lap soon.
TEXT> I don't know about this, so I'm not educated on the new RSA policy. Should we also look at the district policy? I think beyond that,  I don't know what what we've been doing in the past, but where we have flexibility, where we have not just about a policy and compliance, but as we're saying that the districts, if the districts choose about what kind of policy they have for students that are that are behind in payment, I know, I don't know, I don't know this the new RSA,  but we are kind of moving from from an in service, you know, from having our own, cafeteria to kind of having a, a private one. So I okay.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah. I mean, yeah, I don't want to get too far into that time.

[R9128-104] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: offering the more choices. We've also added an additional position that's in our schedule that you'll see. There's a 25,000 position added to the high school. And that's going to add a fifth person, which is going to just make things even, you know, better.
TEXT> We're going to have more people, more choices, happier customers relates to more sales. Nina's talked about the foods from scratch, and I've  talked about all you can eat fresh fruits and vegetables, bars. That's really important to kids like that. It's like a salad bar in every school.  We also actively seek direct local purchases in the community as well, as we have relationships with local farmers that are distributed through Rinehart. You'll see that we actually have a press conference held tomorrow. We we just sealed the deal with a farmer that took me three years. I personally got, you know, from the community contact with the farmer. I personally picked up the lettuce and delivered it one year. And then we also have a restaurant where the chef, I was too busy, actually picked up the lettuce. And because of, you know, our buying power, we were able to basically force our vendor to pick up the lettuce from the farmer and deliver it to all of our schools. And so they picked up lettuce today and delivering. That led us to the schools tomorrow.  And that was picked yesterday. And that's a big deal for the farmer, because she's cutting out two middlemen out of the deal and putting more money in their pocket.
NEXT> Scott: And we're we're actively seeking a couple more of our products are that we don't have local connections for right now as carrots and tomatoes, and that's around 500 0

[R9128-109] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - secondary cluster; [264-265 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: So the directors also will have some vacation benefits. So they're usually pretty busy with, with everything going on. And people think there's not a lot to do in schools, but we are all pretty busy, that's for sure. If you look at the. Okay.
TEXT> So I guess I just wanted to understand, so for free or reduced meals. For a free meal at the child, you see, is that would they be able to access, like the fruit and salad bar without it?
NEXT> Scott: All choices are available to all students in every school, and we try to promote that every chance we can get, because there is always those questions. But no matter

[R9128-119] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member on free and reduced lunch rates [212-220]; | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Just go.
TEXT> For it so that you understand how, beneficial something like that. And, and could be for our system.  Our for instance, right now one of our elementary schools has a free and reduced lunch rate of 75%. Our district wide rate is only 50%. Logic would tell you that you you know, as children get older, families don't become more financially stable and have greater incomes. Logic would tell you that as they get older, they are just not completing their free and reduced lunch paperwork. I think that there's a stigma attached to that. And that's something that we as a board have started to talk about. And I think we need to be very cognizant of is why I'm, thinking of point of sale system could be really beneficial to our district regardless of the provider, because free and reduced lunch rates  are far more to a district than just an individual child's daily meal  plan. It also brings in title one money. It brings in E-Rate money. It brings in a lot, a lot of money that we get as a district. Those formulas are calculated based off free and reduced lunch rates. So if we can increase,  our rates to match our actual demographics,  it will only have a positive financial impact for the district in the long haul.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I just think that that's important, not the Abbey group neutral on that, but just the idea of point of sale, the implications of that are much greater than,

[R9128-122] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member on free and reduced lunch rates [212-220]; | 2017-05-31
PREV> Frank Sprague: Even mention SAP or if you ever.
TEXT> Write, sure, there's fee waivers. There's all sorts of the, the, the benefits  of those figures. And those rates,  far exceed just in individual child's meal for the day. And I don't think everybody understands that that's not widely known. So I think it's important to just make sure that we as a board understand, the the potential benefit of having parents be able to do things from their  home. And increase those rates for us.
NEXT> Jason Hughes: So if I can just address that briefly, it also adds to the programing that you're eligible to receive in your district. So right now I see online that you're

[R9128-123] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: don't think everybody understands that that's not widely known. So I think it's important to just make sure that we as a board understand, the the potential benefit of having parents be able to do things from their home. And increase those rates for us.
TEXT> So if I can just address that briefly, it also adds to the programing that you're eligible to receive in your district. So right now I see online that you're eligible to have five sites for summer programing that could be open sites that would free serve every student under the age of 18 for free. If those numbers drop, you won't be qualified to have these open summer programs going. Also, your fresh fruit and vegetable program that you're currently offering in your schools. If you're free and reduced rate drops, you're going to have to drop out of those funds. It's super important after school programing. You could currently run after school enrichment, have supper served or after school snack served. So all of these programs tie into your free and reduced rate. And if you can keep people applying and if they can do it in the privacy of their homes without having to send anything in. And our point of sale doesn't, identify.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.

[R9128-125] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.
TEXT> Any student in line. So everyone has served the same. There's there's no difference. You're going to have a lot more people participating in the program, and it's going to help keep your other programs afloat.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Anybody else have any other questions?

[R9128-139] Nina Hansen | School nutrition specialist, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated) | 2017-05-31
PREV> Scott: directors, we do try different things that we like to see if they work in our schools. And we're always looking for that magic bullet of what's, what's what it's going to take to work and sell more meals. So we're always trying new things.
TEXT> But we do have very successful summer programs that, take care of students that maybe don't have access to, meals in the summertime. So. And after school.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Yeah. Yeah.

[R9128-145] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - superintendent at [684] cre | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Like a kind of balance.
TEXT> More I'm thinking more, say situation. Situation. No, I'm thinking more situations. Where, say, if we had students that where they filled out the free and reduced lunch application in another district when they when they transfer, if they transferred to our district. But they but it was all.
NEXT> Nina Hansen: Would follow them. The sending school would give the receiving school that information. That's part of an administrative transfer school.

[R9128-148] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - superintendent at [684] cre | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. I just wanted to say that because I do I think the point of sale system, I've seen it work before and I think it's excellent. And,  you know, we definitely need it. But that was just something I was thinking about because we have a lot of students that,  there's a lot of transferring in and out of districts. So  I thought anything that could facilitate that would be great.
NEXT> Unidentified: So you. Mary.

[R9128-151] Scott | Vice President of Operations, The Abbey Group, food service bidder (fi | 2017-05-31
PREV> Mary Ann Lovett: Very simple question in your cost analysis in the kitchen supplies, you just state utensils. Are you talking about plastic silverware or actual?
TEXT> Our goal is to have everything as much as possible reusable. And I did notice. You're absolutely right. There's a lot of styrofoam. You didn't say it, but I could read it. There's a lot of styrofoam, a lot of plastic  in in these kitchens. And I personally can't eat on that stuff. So it's my personal mission to get rid of it. And I always task our ordering department to find those schools that are using that product. And we and we, we, we have some situations probably like at the high school where students leave the cafeteria,  but we want to make it difficult for them to take, you know, paper and styrofoam and not make it. So it's right there and everybody takes one. So our goal is to use reusable whenever possible. Real silverware. Real silverware. And again on the on the items, we're going down through the list as far as the local items and trying to, you know, trying to convert our carrots out of California to carrots out of New Hampshire. Vermont. We're also going down our list and looking at processed food items  and and moving more items to homemade. We do a great job with it. We're we're always challenging ourselves to do better.
NEXT> Jason Hughes: So the way that ties into your question is that when we make when you make something that's pre-made, a pre-made item of pizza that's already been made, it sits

[R9128-154] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - secondary cluster; [264-265 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Michelle, did you have any other questions?
TEXT> Yeah. So I guess I'm sorry I, I lost my train here. I was looking at your website, actually, and I was going over your, lunch prepay program and  the. Free premium membership and. You know, it says you can deposit money with these through your debit card, the flex of depositing money into multiple students accounts out of one payment to view your accounts, to view 120 days worth of meal history. My question on that is is that so that show. So as a parent, I can go in there and say, well, what's he eating over the last 120 days and that. And so you actually are cataloging that also.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, the system captures.

[R9128-160] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Sure that on the free lunch. How do you.
TEXT> Okay, so free lunch is recorded as is not a payment or a purchase because it's a free lunch. So if there's money on the account, a child can purchase an all a cart item. So if you have qualify for a free lunch, your parent would still have to put money in that account for you to be able to purchase all the cart.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Okay, so our car is separate from the fruit and salad cart.

