[R9790-435] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [736],[910]; presen | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: You want to add.
TEXT> To the curriculum aspect? So. We've, overall. Our technology curriculum. Came to 212, really, and,  have introduced Common. Sense Media at the younger grades, and  that is heavily about how you,  interact in online platforms. And,  not only is social etiquette, but also safety procedures and things of that nature. And so, just in the last couple of years, we've included that in our in our K-12 curriculum. And so it starts at very young grades. And so you can go on to the website tech tips or tech tools. Excuse me, on any of the school district websites you can see the common sense media information. And so there's not a specific class that I'm aware of at the high school level that says how you're supposed to manage your cell phone in public. But we have started  the Common Sense Media training in earlier grades. Our high school students wouldn't have had the benefit of that starting in the earlier grades, because that's something in the last couple of years. But just to speak to the curricular aspects of how we,  collectively use technology, not just cell phones, but technology in general has been has been introduced recently.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So and one further thing, I think here's a real, real opportunity for community engagement and conversations and forums. I know that when my kids were teenagers, they're the apps

[R9790-790] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Few years ago.
TEXT> Getting off topic, kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, all those in favor opposed? Okay.

[R9790-793] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [736],[910]; presen | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Can I.
TEXT> Ask one more thing before you wrap up? And that is, kindergarten registration time period was the month of April. Last I heard, our numbers were fairly low compared to the current year. Maybe a third of what we have in our current class. So, just a plug out there as you're talking to people making sure that folks are registering their child or children for kindergarten, just contact your local school. If you're not sure which school is your school, contact the saw office.  There's an online platform to be able to register now for families if it's easier for them, or we have accessibility in any of our buildings to help them with that. And so we I know there's more kindergartners out there. So if we can just ensure that, folks are making us aware as have budgetary implications in terms of where we put staff, if we if we're not sure of numbers. We ran into that this year. So we need to know who is out there for kindergartners. And I believe the cut off  o off the top of my head is September 30th five. By September 30th.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I feel like we always have a lot of movements in some that remember at the beginning to, but my head is about.

[R9799-212] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the director nomination [46]; addresse | 2018-05-10
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: like the tech center is being cleared out so that the saw six employees in the building can move into there. So I'm wondering if you could just address that one. And then I have one more for you so you can clear it up.
TEXT> I've heard that before. The answer is there was no plans to bring the saw to the tech center. All right. But nothing is off the table as we go forward with planning. But right now, there is no plan to do that. We do have a plan. We do have a plan, though, to expand the use of this tech center. And we do have a plan that being formed now to have students have greater access to the tech center, because they can accomplish some of their core academic competencies in this tech center, which currently that is not the case. In the perfect world, Tech Center would become a high school among itself, where a student wouldn't be trying to juggle my courses at Stevens High School and my courses at the Tech Center. But there was no definitive plan that the Dow building is coming here.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. And one more. Sorry, Frank. There was a rumor going around that, you and Frank were working together to, put some saw six offices on Pleasant Street above Frank's

[R9799-266] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the roll-call caller (not named on this r | 2018-05-10
PREV> Michael Petrin: It was.
TEXT> A student community service.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: I can't get them off the ground. Once you get on the ladder.

[R9828-18] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> Opposed? Okay. We will be skipping the student rep report and go right to the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Thank you.

[R9828-31] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Tom Smith: So great. Thank you very much. That'd be that'd be phenomenal. Thank you.
TEXT> So, doctor, my good one. So what popped into my mind when we're talking about this was some sort of visibility on the web page with this type of adopt a kid type of  of initiative.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: That's a good idea. And then it could be mailed out.

[R9828-38] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes.
TEXT> Thank you. Is that something that we could also send out in like a all parent email? In that way it can get to more of the parents that might not even know of that, or even know that their child could go to band because there's an instrument free. Right. I think that would be helpful to maybe at the end of the year, send that out, maybe with the rest of the emails. Great as an idea.
NEXT> Tom Smith: Yeah, I would definitely.

[R9828-41] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve.
TEXT> I just want to make it was a pretty easy decision for me as to as to do this.  Because I have one child that's in band, I have three that play sports, and I actually kind of thought about it and I thought, well, between all the gear I'm buying for this, multiple sports I'm paying, I only have invested one clarinet and some reeds for my other child. And I said the only thing I can do because the everything is paid for, besides the random books I get are here and there for music. I was like, is increased exposure to the arts? And that's what made that decision very easy for me to do.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you, thank you and thank you.

[R9828-61] Frank Romeo | Nominee and incoming principal, Claremont Middle School; currently vic | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: What do you see is your biggest challenge taking this job? What do you.
TEXT> I think like anything else, relationships coming in and getting to know the CMS community.  But right from the beginning, just being here, being present,  getting to know the families, getting to know the people on the ground.  I spent a full day at school from eight to I think I actually didn't leave till, like, 4:00.  And they actually had to ask me to leave. I think they came down to get me.  It was very exciting to to meet families, to meet faculty and staff.  I went out during free time and played around with the students and stuff like that, and I felt very comfortable. And to me, the biggest hurdle is going to be just continuing that, and getting to know, like I said, families and community members. And that's always the biggest challenge when you start. Yeah.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I have a question.

[R9828-123] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member asking about GEAR UP sele | 2018-06-06
PREV> Paulette Gerald: Yes, three or more.
TEXT> So I guess I, I guess in my mind, because of the way mine wind works, I would be like, well, if I had, say, ten kids I could pick perhaps the one with the attendance issue may not be the one you know, it may be the ones who had other, you know, I ready issues and things.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Like that. Yes, yes.

[R9828-129] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (self-ID 'Steven. Ward two' speaking as  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Jason Benware: Right.
TEXT> And it's maybe my lack of knowledge on the whole gear up program in general.  I hear college a lot, but did we do we have the ability to also look at vocational schools as part of that? Because I think that's an important component, because we have a lot of kids that could do something besides college, and it may be better suited for them.
NEXT> Paulette Gerald: That's an excellent question, and one that the mayor has had as well. She's on our advisory board. Gear up is really specifically about college, but we have been weaving

[R9828-136] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: just want to know, is it going to continue next year, in the year after? I mean, I, I love to see these programs that sometimes I've been seeing and get set up and then they go away and, and everybody's lost from it. So.
TEXT> So that's an did I cut you off? I didn't mean to. That is something that we're very aware of as well. That's why we really want to look at the data. We want to track it. We want to make sure we have to determine whether this is successful when we're as adults, sitting around the table looking at the current data that we have, looking at the student population that we have. You know, sometimes things sound really great.  And then when we implement them, not so much.  So that's why we really want to,  see how this goes. And then,  you know, there may be some money next year as  a seventh graders are are next year's eighth graders are moving up. There could be some money left  that we could put towards this. We were very surprised when they said that they had this extra money, and so maybe they will have more.  I think,  I will have a discussion with Frank, who you just met, and see. Is there a way to put cover, even some of it in, in the budget. Furthering it? Yeah, yeah. So I think there are some things to, to try, but for me and for the, for the team at CMS, we felt at least we get a chance to try this now and at least we get a chance to help out this group of kids, this cohort of kids.
NEXT> Paulette Gerald: So, it's pretty exciting. I'm hoping it will be successful. I know I've been reading a lot about. Well, you just heard Tom's, his idea of adopting a student, you

[R9828-137] Paulette Gerald | Outgoing Claremont Middle School principal, leaving for the Concord Sc | 2018-06-06
PREV> Paulette Gerald: things to, to try, but for me and for the, for the team at CMS, we felt at least we get a chance to try this now and at least we get a chance to help out this group of kids, this cohort of kids.
TEXT> So,  it's pretty exciting. I'm hoping it will be successful. I know I've been reading a lot about. Well, you just heard Tom's,  his idea of adopting a student, you know, for through the music program. He is outstanding, by the way. He is an amazing music teacher. So there could be sponsors. I'm thinking through some of the, the local businesses who also might be able to, to help us out with something like that. You know, I think that there are some I think there's some untapped potential.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And thirdly, excuse me. Thank you for your time here and your work and efforts. And I wish you the best, in your new journey.

[R9828-160] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. See? Posting. School board meeting agendas and newspaper. I don't know if you want to talk about that, or I can.
TEXT> Well, I just want to share with you that I when we started looking into what the cost would be, the cost we felt was quite high.  All of the parents and the students  are now receiving the agendas, but if you want to put the complete agenda, all the items.  I wanted you to know the cost.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Extensive. Did you get that all?

[R9828-185] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And thanks for getting the information or Missy getting the information.
TEXT> Okay. Review of student of Stevens High School senior class comments.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: As I leave the district, I wanted to give you some history. And the history has been that going back ten years or more before I even arrived, there's been

[R9828-191] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Horsky 'I agree with Carolyn and Re | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead.
TEXT> I did read all of these and it was so insightful. A lot of them I knew and a lot of them  were surprising to me. But I feel like on this list of,  positives and negatives for 2017, there are so many things on here that could be easily addressed,  and changed immediately.  There's things like,  so many changes, but no one explains why. Why to students. I mean that that's a communication thing. There's no reason why we can't improve upon that, door entry time consuming. I mean, there's there's ways to just fix a lot of these easily. So  I feel positive about that because I was thinking that there was probably going to be so many things that we couldn't even address immediately, but there are many things that we can.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So one of the patterns I noticed over the last few years was, a pattern of inconsistency. And I see this come up over and over again about inconsistency, about

[R9828-205] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent 'Expenditures and revenu | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Do you do you ever leave the that particular line overdrawn for the sake of the auditor?
TEXT> A lot of times. And then they'll say, how come it's over, gone? It's like, well, special education was overdrawn. So they had three kids out of district.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But it's okay to do that rather than.

[R9828-250] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent 'Expenditures and revenu | 2018-06-06
PREV> Jason Benware: Okay. I'm just curious how emergency it had to be. In other.
TEXT> Words, I mean, I think that becomes a that becomes a planning issue. Okay. I can pay for it out of the budget. Let's leave the capital reserve alone. But I come one year and I say, okay, well, we spent all the money on special ed students. I don't have any money left. And I got a furnace down. I got to take money out of the capital reserve to do that. And that's how that would happen.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: At the middle school. As middle school, we had we had a frozen pipe that burst. At the middle school, we had ice damming. And when you have ice damming

[R9828-253] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent 'Expenditures and revenu | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: had asked you, you know, about why there were so many big numbers and not the amount of money used in that at the end of the year. But that's when you explained it. If we didn't use it, we moved it to somewhere else.
TEXT> Yeah. And I mean, there's the biggest variances in that you're going to see are going to be in the special ed lines. Because what happens is we have in-state, out-of-state, private and public. So the student could move from one place to another, or we could have a change in placements from different people. Some people come back, some people going out. And if those places are $100,000 a piece, if two kids move, all of a sudden they got $200,000 left in it. And if you look at the variances in this budget, the biggest variances are in those accounts. And that's because sometimes they move around. So it becomes a question of like I was saying earlier, I could move the money every time somebody moves. But then if you move it so many times you kind of lose track of where you started.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So would it be easier to separate out the special education to the rest of the budget?

[R9828-262] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: So if I break out special ed right now and I look at you to date my budget balance, my budget balance, and this is all my special ed accounts, is a -$137,385.
TEXT> And there could be two kids going into another district placement.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yeah, and there's been more than that. Yeah. Unfortunately. And their movements and that's been the problem. Go ahead. Sorry. It's up to Frank to call on. You might help

[R9828-314] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I'm just saying it. I know that we'd been on that, but we hadn't said that. So I think we should, instead of talking about it, set it, and then, you know.
TEXT> If I can done.  We looked at what other districts have been doing,  and we realized that a local district in Lebanon, I think, spent almost $80,000 having it done. It's not just walking around your facility and moving children or widgets, because you need to have an assessment of the of the maximum space that the loud and what you can use that space we have. We walked away from having someone come in to assistance with that. We have Josh Malloy has been collecting data as far as the square footage in the space.  But once again, if the board in the future wants that to be one of the goals, then that is something that certainly could occur. The goal was to get involved with that process during the 1718 years, part of the strategic action plan. That was the goal. But then we realized  what it would entail and what it would entail. Would receiving or having someone to come in as a consultant to assist, because it's not just how many chairs you can fit into a room, but rather maximizing the available space for what is intended to be.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess I'm a little confused because I mean, obviously, you could have people assess it, you know, who are contractors, assess each building and give you three different

[R9828-370] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. All right. Item G.
TEXT> Just FYI to let you know,  utilizing our technology and support of students, we cannot provide students with every program they need. Especially with our schedule.  Students have to find the space where it's available. In some cases, we don't offer the program. But utilizing Odyssey where and blacks, we have been able to do that. So this is just an FYI.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Honestly, where is the. Program that we were using in the Alice program? And it's a online curriculum that's is supervised by certified teachers. So it's it does pass muster

[R9828-479] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Horsky 'I agree with Carolyn and Re | 2018-06-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: to have a list. Yes. And I think we need to consolidate, but we need to do it all together because we're not. We're not winning by adding to all. It's not. I shouldn't really say it like that. I can't figure out my words.
TEXT> But I just wanted to say that I think this is a really great start to a conversation, and I just want to make it clear that this these are just ideas to find out what they would cost should we decide to go with one or the other or whatever. We're just gathering information on whatever ideas we think that we would like to have for safety. However, we determine what we would like to have for safety. It's information gathering process. And then I would just like to see somehow community involvement in, in what they end up having to pay for. I think that that was just my ultimate goal. I feel like I feel like on situations like this, we can involve the community with bulletproof glass. Being on the Warren article for 142,000 for five schools, you know what I mean? And then they vote on it, or,  resource officers at each building for $200,000, and then they decide if that's what they want for their schools. I just think it's important that we gather the information, figure out what we're going to do with it, and make sure that we involve the public on decisions that are going to affect their children and their taxes.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think.

[R9828-511] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair asks 'Doctor McGlynn/Goodwin' [9], [65];  | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: One comment? Absolutely.
TEXT> I just put a community's benefit.  It was made. We just had a comment that a person brought a gun to school. I just want to explain to the community that yesterday, a gentleman who normally carries a gun with him everywhere did bring his child to school. The gun was noticed in a holster by children who notified the administration. The administration contacted me. We worked with the local authorities. The gentleman was contacted. He apologized. He always carries his gun with him. He said he wouldn't do it again. So I just want people to know  that we do have a protocol regarding,  and how we go about  dealing with individuals who would bring weapons to school. Since the state law now has changed and policy and state law do not work well, and we have been working with legal counsel to that matter. So, just so the community knows that that's what happened and I and that it is quite uncommon. I don't ever remember, having a principal say we have had parents coming in with guns.  We did have a parent who who was an outdoor that had some knives. The gentleman brought in wearing them to pick up his child. And we spoke with the person and they were very good about it. So we're not anti-gun. We just don't want guns or weapons on our school property.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R9828-610] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Horsky 'I agree with Carolyn and Re | 2018-06-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: great idea during the drafting process of this for the definition of what chronic is. So I don't know how this board feels upon those drafts if I need to undertake them more for some fine tuning or if we're ready to make a vote.
TEXT> I just wanted to say in one, I can't remember where it is. I think it's on the protocol for students to be readmitted back into the school. I think it said something somewhere about,  they will be transported by their parent or designated guardian and,  if,  if lice are still present, then the the parent or guardian will transport them home. I think we just need to take the word home out, because we can't dictate where they're going to take their kid after they leave. But that's a that's semantics. But I think we should just where.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: It is clear and concise as possible.

[R9828-623] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: is removal from school. And even on the newer adopted policy, that's less harsh than the no. Net policy is only for chronic cases. Forcing somebody to take the responsibility of being a parent. That's what I have to say in regards to that letter.
TEXT> No, I wasn't exactly he said to him and me. Yeah. So first of all, we can't dictate to parents how they should raise their children. Just as a side note on that. And nurses usually do go through,  mental,  mental part mental health courses, which is usually part of  as in like as a CNA, I had to have I could choose to go through what's  a mental health program, which means I could be working with children with mental disabilities or adults. And, and our ends and LPN will actually have more of that training. So I do have to let you know that information. And then there's four days left at school. So personally speaking, I'd like to move this policy for a second, read table it to a second read for  our next meeting, because there are some concerns that have come up. The nurses letter is definitely something. And and we need to look at obviously. And I don't think if you're a committee that you should just vote on something tonight without sitting down and reviewing that and giving that the thought that goes into it. So I'm asking you as the committee to do that before we pass this tonight.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are you making a motion to table it?

[R9828-635] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Jason and Michelle' [333] - | 2018-06-06
PREV> Unidentified: Voting on.
TEXT> The other thing I wanted to ask was, I guess so the the nurses and the letter suggested that monthly head checks doesn't necessarily equate to less cases of loss. And I'm just curious if, if it's possible for us to take a look and see if if there's data that suggests that. Because what they're saying is it's more traumatic to just do this to kids and you get no results out of it, is how I read the letter. So that being said, I mean,  I personally, I'm not comfortable moving on either one of these policies as it stands right now.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Then you would have wanted to make that.

[R9828-672] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle and Steve' [98] -> | 2018-06-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: One as proposed by Steven Horse and then there's the other.
TEXT> So I prefer that no child be sent home because of being picked on, and ridiculed. It's hard because that one kid could get brutally picked on ten times more for that. It's like. It's. It's very much like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Which.

[R9849-14] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (addressed 'Madam M | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: The Leadville.
TEXT> And and reboot.  I'm meeting occasionally with some different organizations who are looking at the policy and seeing how  we can ensure that, communities are aware of the policy so that it just doesn't pass into law. And then the state of New Hampshire, various communities don't understand the law. So, in the law that was signed in, there will be a system for lead and drinking water in schools and testing. And I just wanted to bring that to your attention because it says upon the effective date, the section of the law is July 1st, 2019, and within every five year period thereafter, public and private schools and licensed child care facilities that have not sampled in the prior two years shall test for the presence of lead and drinking water at all locations at the facility that is available for consumption by children. So I want to bring this to the school board's attention, because you may want to decide to work on policy with regard to that, you know, lifting different parts of the law and creating a policy of, you know, a cycle of when you plan to test for water just so that you know, it's on the horizon, because starting in 2019, July 1st, this becomes effective. So I have you can go online to get a copy of the law of that section. It's for section 418 of the law of the bill.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. So I would jump in and say my, school board chair notes will be, attached to when we get into the legislative focus for 2019. And Carolyn Todd will

[R9849-34] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity) (self-ID 'Hi, I'm Marjorie Erickson' [59], ' | 2018-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: I saw another hand back in the back.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Marjorie Erickson. I'm actually from unity, but I was just pointed or elected to as chairwoman of the Saw six board. So I just want to address that comment. If I can have two minutes of your time or less. We're just starting the process of looking for a superintendent. We have not formed a committee. We have not. We're we're just in the transition phase into that. We have every intention of including all state holders in this process.  Parents, community corporations. Teachers.  Administrative staff. Students. We have no intention of of keeping anybody out or in the dark. As we go through this process, we will be communicating all of our efforts with the community at large so that you all know what we're doing.  I invite you to come to any of our meetings. They're all posted on the SA website. So as we go through this process, you're all welcome to join us and comment during the citizens comments. But then again, we will be forming committees that that are not just the school board but are made up of the greater community. So thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thanks, Mark.

[R9849-37] Walt Stapleton | Public commenter, Ward 3, candidate for NH House (self-ID 'I'm Walt St | 2018-06-21
PREV> Walt Stapleton: the legislature. The the thing that I like to do would be to look in depth at legislation instead of just passing it on a whim or on an agenda. Thoughtful legislation can eliminate a lot of problems down the road for lawsuits, rework challenges.
TEXT> And I'm especially interested in education. We've had a long time problem with funding adequate education in the state of New Hampshire, as you well know, and we need to bring that to some successful closure for all parties involved. I would like to work on that, along with other issues and transportation, since that is my forte from my business experience and interested in the people in Claremont, because Claremont has done well by me and my family. My children were educated here, received a great education, and the tech center here, especially my son Gregory. So  I'm very thankful and privileged to be in Claremont and want to stay here and serve the community in the legislature, and I would appreciate your support to do so. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9849-54] Pope | Claremont City Councilor, first name not on this recording ('Counselor | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Excuse me.
TEXT> Into a few meetings and such since this. And I'm seeing where a lot of places are really, really working on their communication efforts. One of the things that has come out from not just New Hampshire, but from all over the country is that schools are now competing for revenue. They're competing for students. School choice has given so much opportunity for people to move around, and marketing is going to become one of the necessary evils or the necessary good parts of what we do in the future. So we can't ignore that, that there is competition out there. And for us to compete, we've got to get a word out. The same thing comes for our city in very other various other communities. You can start looking on TV, you see the ads for New York, and even communities in New York are hiring marketing agencies, agents, PR people. I was just recently in New York State, and you can see press releases from all sorts of little communities that are looking for residents to move in families, workers, their advertising, their companies, the whole bit. Vermont has just started off, I think it's piece of Vermont where they're trying to get old people who have connections to Vermont back in.
NEXT> Pope: It's all marketing. We are competing not just for students, but to show our good side, to make revenue for our school, to get workers into our community. We can

[R9849-55] Pope | Claremont City Councilor, first name not on this recording ('Counselor | 2018-06-21
PREV> Pope: of little communities that are looking for residents to move in families, workers, their advertising, their companies, the whole bit. Vermont has just started off, I think it's piece of Vermont where they're trying to get old people who have connections to Vermont back in.
TEXT> It's all marketing. We are competing not just for students, but to show our good side, to make revenue for our school, to get workers into our community. We can all or all we want. But unless we've got someone who's willing to give one unified voice and one person to actually go out and hit the bushes and seek those avenues of getting that word out, we're just hollering into a paper bag, to be honest with you. So we got to get someone in that position.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Other thoughts? Yes.

[R9849-198] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presiding; calls meeting to order [0] | 2018-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: city, I know when we heard from the lawyers, Keene is involved with this. Keene's interested in participating. I know Newport is. I've already talked to Doctor Gallagher. She's all in. Certainly we are. Pittsfield is. And I agree with what Mayor Lovett just said.
TEXT> I think it has come to a critical mass. I think that, it's affecting everyone. We heard last night in our board meeting, we talked about, catastrophic aid for our special ed kids that, that incur, huge  costs to provide them an adequate education.  And, that has been getting chipped away at leaving the state is saying, well, this year we're only paying 60% of  above 55,000. We have to pay the first 50,000. Then after that, the state picks up part of it. But that state, part of it is diminishing, downshifting more back to the local communities. So I think as a as a what I would like to see as a Claremont board and certainly Claremont as a community, is have these candidates here and really act as and again, talk about the need for a communication person,  really have a unified front in confronting candidates with the expectation of what  our what your constituency expects from you when you get down to Concord. So that's my $0.02 worth.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Very well said. I have copies, in all the school board people have already got this, so I would like just the city council at this point. Oh, why don't

[R9849-221] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (recognized by the mayor with a State House cloc | 2018-06-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: on our own dime. You know, that school building aid was on moratorium? We have been trying to do the right things, and I think we need to clearly communicate how much we have invested in our school system, but we can't do it alone.
TEXT> Just to bring closure to this. I would caution you about comparing one community to another and comparing staff, because all communities have different needs. The demographics from one community can be very different from another. A teacher used to work in our district now is in another community. She said the difference is enormous because of the demographics, but in truth, the playing field is not level. The Lebanon School District has fewer schools, fewer students, fewer teachers, fewer administrators. Their budget is more than $14 million larger than Claremont. The playing field isn't level, the playing field isn't level, and we lose so many of our teachers to other communities. We hire good. Well, we we invest, but we can't keep them. And you can't blame them. I, elementary school teacher two years ago went to a nearby community. The difference in compensation $24,000.
NEXT> Gauthier: If you would. If you would, I would suggest putting together a list of comprehensive list so I can bring it to the statehouse. And I can say this is

[R9849-267] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (addressed 'Madam M | 2018-06-21
PREV> Gauthier: Did you have information? I'd like to have that.
TEXT> So to follow that up with Doctor  Goodwin and I happen to have a meeting with New Futures the other day there. Their job is to advocate, educate and collaborate to improve the health and wellness of all Granite Staters. They do a lot of work down at the state House and, advocating for various bills. They did a lot with the lead bill, in conjunction with a lot of other organizations, but they do in-depth presentations on policy issues, issue areas, and if collectively, collectively, we think that children's behavioral health is critical in our community, they do offer a services for children with behavioral health concerns can be difficult to navigate. New Hampshire This presentation offers an overview and calls advocates to get involved in improving the system. So this is a 1 to 2 hour presentation that if we would like them to come here to Claremont and give, we can invite them to do so. And that would further strengthen  our advocacy between our community and what's going on at the state House. So if you would like me to arrange that, I can give you some preliminary information. We can set up a date through emails either.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Good. Yes.

[R9849-271] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (addressed 'Madam M | 2018-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So. I think you're that was your top one of the behavioral health for children.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There are many more that that is a very serious issue. Okay. And we were, as I said, having some preliminary plans to address it. But that being said, I

[R9849-309] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, presiding for the City Council (closing items; add | 2018-06-21
PREV> Gauthier: That's $1,000. Would you like that?
TEXT> That would be great.  And then the last thing that I have on my to do list is to contact new futures, to have them do that presentation on children's behavioral health so we can improve our advocacy in that area. Does that sound like I've got it all? Yeah. Okay. So,  before we adjourn, any other final comments? Questions for our legislators. Thank you for your time being here tonight. Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you very much.

[R9850-41] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: I. Wasn't here. Okay.
TEXT> All right. We don't have a student rep. This point, Lexy has graduated. Superintendents report.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thank you.

[R9850-90] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed 'Mike' by superintendent [104 | 2018-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Could you just explain that to everybody very briefly.
TEXT> So there's an RSA that says we will pay you special education aid. So what we do is we're going to pay you a portion of the money. You spend over two different thresholds. The first threshold is three and a half times the average cost to educate a child in the state. The average cost of a  child in the state is about 15,500. Three and a half times that is 52,000. So theoretically, anything you spend over 52,000, we're going to give you back 50%. Then after that if you get to ten times. So if you get a student, you spend more than 152,000 on. We're going to give you 100% of that pack. So we do a mass nation. We do a calculation. And then the state says, wait a minute. If I do that calculation, I need 300 bucks. I only got 200. So let's pay everybody 66% of that. So then they reduce the amount they're going to pay further using that formula. So we don't get the money that we're entitled to under the RSA. We get two thirds of that. And the percentage over the past couple of years has been about 66 to 68%. So they're there and we're leaving money on the table again with with the with that, even though it's statutorily required that they pay us that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason.

[R9850-106] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: components research, reflection, product presentation. So there's need to be research going on throughout, reflection, going on throughout, and then some sort of culmination that brings all the learning together and that how that product and presentation play out can vary from student to student.
TEXT> And so that's the handbook. I just wanted you to have that to reference. The last form in that is our completion record.  All three of those documents, along with the final summary reflection that the student do does gets filed in the student's permanent record. So if somebody pulls up a transcript and says, hey, I want to know more about this L there's full documentation to back it up as well as it helps our school counselors if they get a call from a university or college saying, hey, I don't understand what's on this transcript. They don't just have to go seek the student out, they can pull that record right out, read the summary and get a good sense of it. Okay. But we do loop in the school counselors  on, you know, who's doing L's. And like I said, a lot of them either start with me going to the school counselors or school counselors coming to me. So definitely a strong connection there with our school counseling department. The next three page document you have is my summary report to you.  So I want to caution that really, prior to the 1617 school year, we didn't really have a solid way of collecting data on LS.  So if you're going to set a baseline for your data, I really suggest you guys set the baseline at this past  school year, the 1718 school year.
NEXT> Christine Downing: And I'll tell you why. I'm not saying the 1617 school year, because we really didn't kick in the formal L process till second semester until January of 2017. So

[R9850-113] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (states the board gave her signing aut | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> More questions than that is. To emphasize that Christine just said these are all student driven and students find engaged partners with whom to work, whether it be a high school faculty member or a community member. And that bond fits and the work fits within the strategic action plan that this board has agreed to. And the idea of expanding learning outside of the four brick and mortar walls of our high school. This is how we've started that process. And so it's something that I think we need to continue to support as we move forward.  And, and we're looking at ways internally to figure out how to do that with restructuring and the curriculum positions and such, and ensuring that students who want this  outside of the box learning opportunity that better meets their needs. And, and really many of these are in the applied learning realm.  It's much more about hands on learning, practical experiences and things of that nature that that students choose to do. And, and that's where we want to head, and that's what's driven by the strategic plan. And so I think it's important to keep this at the forefront of our discussions.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Definitely.

[R9850-118] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (chair takes 'Carolyn's motion' [16]; ra | 2018-06-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: You're welcome.
TEXT> I'm sorry. We're going to lose you. I'm very. Interested in what types of without a big list, what types of opportunities the students have. I believe that there was a student in 2016 and 17 that did a writing credit, I think Anna Avery.
NEXT> Christine Downing: Yes, yes.

[R9850-122] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: the network of how to get through the Department of Labor. And so we can expedite that. I mean, example is I placed a kid at Red River just they started last Friday. And Red River is like, hey, our, approval lapsed because it's annual.
TEXT> They have to renew it every year. And I'm like, no problem, no problem. Let me pick up the phone. I'll call. We had that approval within 36 hours. So, you know, you know, the kid was able to start, etc.. So we we do Red River, we do arc, we do Wieland all our big East there I say community, but then we have some little ones like I have a student who's now finishing her third l'eau with the Old Courthouse restaurant in Newport, because she wants to be a pastry chef, and she's phenomenal.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Who that is.

[R9850-124] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Who that is.
TEXT> I had a student this year.  Doctor Goodwin saw this and we thought, oh, my God, a future science teacher for Stevens High School, Allison Nummi said, you know, we don't offer chemistry, too. I want to explore chemistry deeper, Miss Alta said, I'd love to do this with you, Allison. Her presentation when she gave it was phenomenal. And she finally said, I want to be a teacher. I think I have found and we're like, yeah, you need to be a teacher after watching her.  So it's just great. I mean, I think of Chandler Zullo, who's graduated, he, he installed a complete green energy pellet system. I mean, even Doug Morton wasn't sure how to do it, and they brainstormed it together. Took him a year and a half to do this, but did it all through an L and phenomenal. Landed him a job at Hinkley.  So there's great opportunities and it's really they come with a passion and it's up to us to say, you know what? You have got to help them navigate. You're demonstrating X, Y, and Z. We know you are. The best part, I got to tell you, with an l o is reading their, their journals and logs that they keep throughout, but then they're their summary reflection.
NEXT> Christine Downing: And I guess the one thing that I would say ls do that we haven't really solidified yet at Stevens High School is they address what we call those 21st

[R9850-126] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (motion acknowledged 'Mr. Benoit' [26];  | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: rubrics. I don't know how. I hand them to them, say, give me a rating back, talk to me about the student and how they did so we can figure out what's that final rating. And they work. So we've got some good things going.
TEXT> I just wanted to say that I think that this program is great. I think that when you have students who have a desire to learn something, we need to nurture that, and especially when it may lead them to doing something they actually want to do when they get out of high school.  Whether it be to go right into the field or to to go to school, it seems like it's a much more productive means of teaching somebody than simply sitting in the classroom all the time. So very supportive of this.
NEXT> Christine Downing: You know, the neat thing is, the byproduct of all of this is the influence it has on classroom teacher practices. I mean, Larissa has done in yellow, so she

[R9850-137] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: And one of the things to remember about the ML you is that a survey, which is why we came back to you in September and said, you think we we've looked at this composition, we think we're missing some players. So now.
TEXT> Yes. So as you can see, we've expanded once again and we're shifting things because we are losing some folks, after the school year. So we added our building principal to the committee because we thought that was crucial in terms of our work and in terms of our schedule. We also realized a missing stakeholder where students, we needed to have students on our committee. So we've added Gaby Savo and Emily Courier.  We realized we needed a special education teacher. So we've included Mike. We needed a school counselor. So we asked Mimi Rhymes to come on board with us as well as world language. So we have Gary Collison, and we anticipate that the new curriculum specialist will be joining our committee as well. But you can see the group that's leaving the committee after the school year. So every time we have a shift in our committee's makeup, it does take a while to bring them on board. If you want to take a look at our next slide, if you want to say more about that facilitation. Yes. Well, as you know that we're losing Christine, so I'm losing my coach.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: And in deciding on how we were going to do that moving forward, we agreed by consensus that we would do try facilitators instead of. So Scott Pope and Jill

[R9850-139] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: item until everybody is at least at a three. And a three means I can live with what we're doing. The reason for that is because we need all of our folks on the schedule committee to be in for the work that we're doing.
TEXT> We can't have committee members who feel uncomfortable with any decision that we make, because if we do that, then we have contention within the group, and then we're back to where we started with a group that doesn't agree with each other. So we work on a consensus model, and it takes a while, and it takes new committee members a while to understand what norms look like and how we do business. So I'm going to go through what we created last summer as a group. As a group, we put we met at Christine's house and we came together as educators, administrators and teachers.  And we created Utopia. Utopia meant in the perfect world, the perfect schedule would include all of these things. And we filled her walls with charts and charts and charts of paper  that we codified into what we now have is our core beliefs, and everything that we do as a committee is done through the lens of these beliefs. So I'm just going to go through them quickly with you and give them to you. In a nutshell, the first one is that it reflects Claremont values and beliefs. It celebrates what we do well as a school community and allows for opportunities to improve and grow.  Also, it commits to flexible and personalized learning, allowing students to have choice and voice on their educational paths.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: It promotes communication for all stakeholders. It celebrates pride and value of this particular community and aligns itself with our strategic action plans for the Claremont School District. It provides

[R9850-140] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: is that it reflects Claremont values and beliefs. It celebrates what we do well as a school community and allows for opportunities to improve and grow. Also, it commits to flexible and personalized learning, allowing students to have choice and voice on their educational paths.
TEXT> It promotes communication for all stakeholders. It celebrates pride and value of this particular community and aligns itself with  our strategic action plans for the Claremont School District. It provides communication and collaboration opportunities not just for teachers and students, but also for administration, students, families and community, and  a perfect school schedule or a school schedule. We want to make sure utilizes community and school resources to create community partnerships in order to allow learning to happen beyond the classroom walls. So these are our core beliefs. Everything that we do as a committee is looked through that lens.
NEXT> Christine Downing: So I'm going to back up one second, because I'm going to pull out a bullet here, that when we first wrote down this second bullet of choice in voice

[R9850-145] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So what have we been up to?  Back when we saw you last in September, at least some of you, we told you that we were going back to the community because what we want to know is what Claremont values in a school schedule, what they want to see the school day look like and what they want their children to be learning. So we took a lot of data from a lot of various stakeholders. We  pulled the students, we pulled teachers, we pulled community members to find out what their values were, what they wanted to see in a school schedule. And we worked on that for quite a long time, and we started to distill the data,  in phase one. And what we learned after we we asked many questions, a lot of open ended questions, so that people could give us realistic feedback. And we were able to, use the qualitative data to develop six categories that people thought were important in terms of what they wanted their students to be learning and doing. And from the responses, we found that people wanted real life applications, real life practice.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: They were concerned about the daily timetable when things would happen during the school day, when the school day would begin, when the school day would end, and where things

[R9850-146] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: we were able to, use the qualitative data to develop six categories that people thought were important in terms of what they wanted their students to be learning and doing. And from the responses, we found that people wanted real life applications, real life practice.
TEXT> They were concerned about the daily timetable when things would happen during the school day, when the school day would begin, when the school day would end, and where things would land within the school day. They wanted rigorous academics, they wanted choice in their academics. And that was crossed the board. Some folks didn't want any change at all. They wanted it to stay the same. And then we had some invalid responses where we couldn't gather enough information from what they told us on their surveys. So from that, we were able to create a chart that can dictate to you what from the student perspective, from the parent perspective and staff perspective, what Claremont citizens, students, parents and and community members find important?
NEXT> Christine Downing: We should preference that our biggest return rate in terms of feedback. Keep in mind we only asked two very simple questions and they are open ended questions. I'm trying

[R9850-148] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: We should preference that our biggest return rate in terms of feedback. Keep in mind we only asked two very simple questions and they are open ended questions. I'm trying to remember the two.
TEXT> It was what what would the school day? Which should the school day look like and what should students be learning and doing in high school?
NEXT> Christine Downing: We had a common feel free to comment and they were open ended. So these were not multiple choice. They weren't like art scales. I like disagree, whatever. These are

[R9850-149] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (second cluster f | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: It was what what would the school day? Which should the school day look like and what should students be learning and doing in high school?
TEXT> We had a common feel free to comment and they were open ended. So these were not multiple choice. They weren't like art scales. I like disagree, whatever. These are completely open ended. We had over a 60% return rate across the Student Body survey.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: That's amazing.

[R9850-158] Christine Downing | Stevens High School curriculum specialist, departing (self-ID 'Christi | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: we have been working through our committee meetings at diving into research based on the information given us through the partnership with League of Innovative Schools, researching articles, looking at various schedule models. So that's that was our spring. In terms of what we did.
TEXT> Said about that. Moment when she and I were he was painting when we were sitting in that session in San Diego, and they looked at each other and were like, oh my God, take away the whole step to the Supreme Court.  And the story in their session was about the impact of their schedule on kids and academics, etc., in their school, their whole school redesign approach, take away the whole Supreme Court set. And we were like, oh my God, this is the story I plan on. We felt like we were sitting there, and that was probably one of the most powerful visits we went on. We got a lot of great information. They, they took four years to implement the schedule they implemented for the first time this year, and some of it had to do with budgetary issues, where they had to build up staffing to do the schedule they wanted, and they actually even delayed a whole year. They were actually supposed to start their schedule in the 1617 school year, but they had some leadership transition, so they delayed it.  But they always had it there. They  made it part of their negotiation with their collective bargaining unit that they have down there. So it was very thoughtful and deliberate how they went about this. And we just resounded to us.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: Yeah, yeah.

[R9850-161] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Christine Downing: talked about. We don't want to just take somebody else's schedule and say, okay, we're just going to do this as Steven. We want to take all the parts that we know are going to work for Stevens and what's that going to look like?
TEXT> So I want to paint you a picture of how we've we've come to at least starting with some recommendations that we have just for even a pilot for our next school year. So if you look at our core beliefs that talk about  celebrating what Claremont Values, that's, that's that's a huge part of our core belief is to celebrate what Claremont values. And then you take a look at the data that that Claremont gave us which said real life application is important to students, staff and parents. And then you think about ways that we can start to accommodate that. And in places where, well, how can we work with students to have them develop mentally know what they need to be doing? Like say you're a freshman, how do we orient them to things that you need to be doing? As a freshman and a sophomore, in a junior and a senior, and how can we incorporate those things and say our advisory program, something that we already have and do and how can we improve upon it? So we started to have a conversation in our committee about grade level advisories to instead of having it, because right now it's more, you know, you can have freshman, sophomore, junior seniors in a same advisory.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: We thought in terms of could we, parse it out so that grade level, they're they're grouped with kids in the same grade level and that their teachers go along

[R9850-162] Larissa Cahill | Co-facilitator, Stevens High School scheduling committee (introduced w | 2018-06-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: do and how can we improve upon it? So we started to have a conversation in our committee about grade level advisories to instead of having it, because right now it's more, you know, you can have freshman, sophomore, junior seniors in a same advisory.
TEXT> We thought in terms of could we,  parse it out so that grade level, they're they're grouped with kids in the same grade level and that their teachers go along with them to meetings in regard to how to orient yourself  during freshman year, what are the skill sets you need for sophomore year? What are some of the soft skills you need for junior year, as you're going out on those college visits and then moving into senior year? So once again, instead of just saying, let's try this, we looked at it through our core beliefs, and then we looked at it through what the community told us they wanted. And we've started to make a recommendation. And then instead of just doing it, we've brought it back to our stakeholders so that they know what it is we're up to. And so we gave a pull to our staff members,  in terms of how they felt about grade level advisories. And this is the result that we got.
NEXT> Christine Downing: I think, to also echo that in our research, in our visits and going back to the I think it's our third core value and belief about that. We want

[R9850-177] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (states the board gave her signing aut | 2018-06-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah. So I just wanted to get an idea. I saw all the people that were on your list. I didn't see any parents. Is that due to lack of interest or. I was just curious.
TEXT> Respond to that. So the original. You said that the members.  Yes. I would. Appoint five members. And from that process, we have asked, as she indicated, to expand that, to have a larger stakeholder group, and we included students. There are folks who are parents on the committee, but they are not serving only in the capacity of parent. And then in addition to that, we have conducted surveys with parents and reached out to parents. We're cognizant of making the group size functional. And we also because of the folks who are sitting at the table, we  are, really  bound to meeting at 215 in the afternoon, which is a challenge for families who are working  and have work schedules that prevent them from attending at that time. And so we've sort other ways to get that input from parents and guardians.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9850-194] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Moving along. Looks like we are transitioning over to action items.
TEXT> Very pleased to welcome Gerald. Outgoing principal of CMS, Audra Buckland. Remaining Assistant Principal of CMS. Going to make a presentation regarding the CMS 2018 2019 Claremont Middle School Student Handbook. And ladies, I want to thank you both not only for tonight, but also for those of you who have not noticed, if you look on the main bulls and board at CMS, it's welcoming the next principal of CMS, Frank Romeo,  who plans to be here during the month of June. Off and on and we'll hit the ground learning in early July. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh you're welcome.

[R9850-231] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So one clarifying thing. So so  as far as the policies and such that are in the handbook, do students, their parents sign a receipt saying I've.
NEXT> Unidentified: Received. The back. Of the last. Page okay. Yeah.

[R9850-244] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Jason Benware: and having to still share the classroom with the same students, he had a much better time of it than kids who had not had that before. So I think it benefits all students from all backgrounds. So I do believe it's a good program.
TEXT> In a perfect world, I believe, if I may, Frank, I believe the ratio is 5050. We are challenged to maintain that ratio because of the needs of of our community and the needs of children. But the goal is one day this will expand.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carolyn, and then Steven and Michelle.

[R9850-325] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [314], [387]; sup | 2018-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: So the English position was cut. Correct? Sure.
TEXT> So I guess my question. I have one I've been kind of curious about, when you guys count up the teacher student ratio, are you also maintenance and special ed and all of the other kind of you know what? Not necessarily in the classroom. Student if you understand what I'm asking. Yeah.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Are you referring to the published student teacher ratio on the Department of Education website, or are you referring to some other source of data?

[R9850-326] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (states the board gave her signing aut | 2018-06-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I've been kind of curious about, when you guys count up the teacher student ratio, are you also maintenance and special ed and all of the other kind of you know what? Not necessarily in the classroom. Student if you understand what I'm asking. Yeah.
TEXT> Are you referring to the published student teacher ratio on the Department of Education website, or are you referring to some other source of data?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: No, I think I'm just it was a question that kind of came up that I wanted to ask, actually, that when I was listening to NPR in Vermont issues.

[R9850-327] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [314], [387]; sup | 2018-06-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: Are you referring to the published student teacher ratio on the Department of Education website, or are you referring to some other source of data?
TEXT> No, I think I'm just it was a question that kind of came up that I wanted to ask, actually, that when I was listening to NPR in Vermont issues. They can in the same boat talking about that stuff. And  so that was something that came up was, are you are you counting, you know, when you're doing your teacher student ratios here, are we counting  all personnel, including the cook and the cleaner and the.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Well, when we've talked about student teacher ratio at this table and we've talked about, for instance, last winter we talked about the kindergarten class sizes at Bluff Elementary School.

[R9850-329] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Doctor Goodwin' [7]; gives superinte | 2018-06-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: recalling at the moment, but on average we are mid teens to mid 20s. In terms of classroom teacher and number of students. There may be other adults in that room, but in terms of classroom teacher and number of students. That's where we run.
TEXT> When you when you, the special education teachers who may not have a classroom, if they're added to the mix, the ratio decreases. But it truly it just going by class size can be very challenging.  If all children were the same, they'd be an argument.
NEXT> Unidentified: There.

[R9850-332] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [314], [387]; sup | 2018-06-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: But certain certain. As we all know, there is children with different needs and in some cases it's in the best interests of all. If we have a smaller class size because of the needs of the class.
TEXT> And I guess that was where I was trying to figure out, you know, is this the state or federal looking at it as student ratio differently than we are? You know, is it going to.  Cause I do know that I guess I'm to understand, like not counting the special education department because they get paid differently or they're not. I guess.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They get paid the same.

[R9853-186] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reads his letter of resignation as superintende | 2018-06-14
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Background rec record check law was established. We no longer are taking a person's word about their background. We now have access to ensure that every man and woman we hire are the kind of adults we want, with our children and with our colleagues.
TEXT> Before, that was not the case, and an event in 2014 was a horrific reminder of that. Now all children and all staff have a better chance of being in a safe environment because of this law passing. I did not do it myself. I worked with many others and it took two years because there was a lot of resistance. But we are in a better place. Despite fixed cost increases, annual budget growth has been minimal. And last but not least, early childhood education program established for Claremont children in prior years. Children from other communities were involved with this program. It was costing our district $200,000 a year. Now we've reduced the cost and now we are just servicing Claremont children. So in closing, it has been my honor, and I underline the word honor to serve as superintendent of schools. I look forward in the future to the Unity and Claremont School District's future progress, and it is my hope that that future progress will be measured by all students growth and achievement. Thank you sir.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: Our next item obviously follows that. And I think this was a very nice highlight of the things that have happened. And our next, piece is, terminating what we're going

[R9876-514] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member) (calls to order [0], asks 'Mary' to c | 2018-06-28
PREV> Unidentified: To.
TEXT> Involve will involve okay. We'll involve input from stakeholders, the district staff students parents and the greater Claremont Unity communities. Okay. Do you want me to read it now has its.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have one more.

[R9876-526] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (Unity member) (calls to order [0], asks 'Mary' to c | 2018-06-28
PREV> Unidentified: You can.
TEXT> And do we like pursuant. Was there any. I'll read it and then you can decide. Pursuant to recent decisions, the essay you six school board is beginning the process of transitioning district leadership to a new superintendent. A succession plan defining the transition process was approved, was presented and approved. At a public. Sorry, I'm. I've got to cross them out. At a public meeting held June 28th. 2018. This plan includes the key transition elements of appointing and acting superintendent, hiring an interim superintendent to support the district through the transition, and then defining the process to be used to identify and hire a superintendent who is aligned with the, say, core values. See six core values. It is expected that the superintendent search process will involve input from all stakeholders. The Saw six district staff, students, parents, and the Greater Claremont and Unity communities to ensure a transparent and deliberate process. All aspects of the succession plan will be followed in sequence and open meetings where  citizen comments and feedback will be welcomed. So we have a motion on.
NEXT> Unidentified: The table.

[R9906-244] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) ('Steve.' [52,122,343,382,709] each fol | 2018-07-12
PREV> Unidentified: Here.
TEXT> Being overly aggressive at 130. But at the same token, we want to get somebody here as well. So it's a it's a matter of finding a tough balance. And I think that's where this second sheet comes very heavily into play. The one thing I would like to see on the second sheet with the student body, so that we have some terrible district sizes.
NEXT> Unidentified: To go off.

[R9906-361] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting in the superintendent's absenc | 2018-07-12
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: is there's room to wiggle in there if there ever needed to be. So another question I had is you were looking for a lot of principles are the assistant principals, even though we don't call them that, I can't remember what we call them.
TEXT> At the middle and the high school, they are called assistant principal. Well, we do have a system principals at the middle and high school. We also have a assistant principal slash special education building coordinator at the high school. And then we have student service coordinators at the elementary school.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So they be covering any of the filling in for any of the jobs while the principals while you're looking for principals.

[R9906-366] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (acting in the superintendent's absenc | 2018-07-12
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I'm just responding to what she was sharing with us that we are looking. So that's a question for what you shared.
TEXT> It includes,  and some of and three of these have been filled. So middle school principal, CTE director, superintendent, director of special education,  Maple Avenue, principal,  Bluff Elementary, student service coordinator, high school special education coordinator, and  possibly is that seven.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: And last one more in.

[R9907-8] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], asks Mrs. Wo | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, second.
TEXT> Any discussion on that? Okay. All those in favor? Aye. On those opposed? Okay. Thank you. We can skip item three. Student reps report. Mike, are we doing a superintendents report or are we skipping that as well.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: As Courtney mentioned that she said no.

[R9907-40] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (asks whether the program can expand [69 | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: true to what we do based on what the needs we feel to bring this service into your district. We need those those numbers there. So that's kind of what the program is. And sort of like a nutshell. I can take questions. Yes, sir.
TEXT> I want to say I think this is great. I think this is something we've needed, and I'm glad we're looking at going in this direction. That being said, the numbers we're looking at. So 12 kids? Yes. Is this just a pilot numbers? In other words, are there more identified kids that may be able to. Could this expand beyond this if it works? I guess the question, because that would be my hope, is that if it is just something that.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: We don't take questions on, things we haven't talked about yet. Are you reading ahead again?

[R9907-43] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Jason Benware: No, I'm looking at this right here. I'm just asking if this is the numbers are small because it's a pilot, and if so, is there potential for growth?
TEXT> I mean, initially we were actually looking at one classroom. Just just to just to get some of the, some of the heavy hitters. But the discussion came back around to the fact that we've identified level two and level three kids. Certainly. And,  you know, once you have one classroom, you can add a second one for less than the first one because you can share some of those resources. The question becomes, how many of those resources can you share? And we certainly didn't want to jump in with 3 or 4 rooms and say, well, we're going to save all this money and not be able to succeed at it. So I think that  certainly can be scaled up. And I think 12 is aggressive to start out in the beginning.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Okay. I had one other question. If it's okay. Is it being housed in a different building, or is it using rooms in the schools that we already have, or.

[R9907-48] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: in the middle school and the high school. And one of the big, bugaboo we had was the entrance criteria and exit criteria for this program. And I'm curious, who are these kids and and how do they and what are the expectations for them?
TEXT> That program, if I recall, from from Corey, was not successful. And the reason why it wasn't successful is that criteria piece. Oftentimes when school districts do a lot of homework and thinking what they're doing,  they often bring in behavioral problems and mental health problems. It's like well and vinegar, they don't mix. And you've got to really look at what is the criteria for a  a student with trauma based needs and learning needs. And so our the uniqueness of the Meadow School at the Brattleboro Retreat is that we work with dual diagnosed children all the time and and not just. Lightly, but real deep trauma based children. And so that's where you start. That's where you start is really identifying the criteria is we have a clinical manager, doctor Lisa Kelly, who does the evaluations and she sets it. So right now let's talk about this when Claremont has a recommendation through Ben and Dave Cochrane. To me I engage Lisa in the process. Lisa will then look at all the records that that student has. She will sit down with the family and she will talk with them, and she will assess their whether that child is going to be successful or not successful, because you're looking at goodness of fit. And one of the screenings we do at that point is we really look at is this  child of behavioral child okay, what shows the most okay.
NEXT> Mike Kell: And what's the history of that child. So that's a factor of what we're doing. So what Ben and I've talked about doing is we're going to set up a

[R9907-49] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: whether that child is going to be successful or not successful, because you're looking at goodness of fit. And one of the screenings we do at that point is we really look at is this child of behavioral child okay, what shows the most okay.
TEXT> And what's the history of that child. So that's a factor of what we're doing. So what Ben and I've talked about doing is we're going to set up a sort of like a screening team here. So it'll be Ben,  myself and Lisa Kelly and I think Dave and other people on your staff  that will really sit down with that and have almost like what we do at the retreat. We have families come down for a tour. We spend time talking to the families or gals, whatever the case may be, and then we will make an assessment there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Guardian ad litem? Yes. Okay.

[R9907-52] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: My apologies. I'm coming in late to this in my thinking, but I'm noticing two mental health workers, one mental health worker, three mental health workers. Are these, your guys that you're bringing?
TEXT> Yes. So the concept of the operation is basically you're contracting with us. We step in with our our staff, and we may do some interviewing up here for staff and train them at the retreat with us,  so that we look at people who are closer to the district.  And I know the dynamics of we have to deal with  all the time. So knowing kids, knowing family systems, that's always a cautious caution we might have to take. But we provide the staffing.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. That's kind of where I was going with it. Just making sure that the staff is strained because you can have the best intentions, but if your staff isn't

[R9907-61] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: of having multiple schools involved, I think, is a good one. I worked in the Newport schools for a number of years, and certainly they have this need too. So when Jason went to increasing capacity, I went to my brain, went to charging tuition.
TEXT> And I think that's that that's part of the long term plan. That is the goal. I mean, I think it's the goal of not just us, but for Brattleboro Retreat. Yeah. But like I said before, we don't want to start off with 24 kids. I think that we know I get it, you know, I get it, you know, maybe next year we have 24 kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Let's get this working first. I get it, I get it. So I know that, if we approved this tonight, I think it's on the front burner for Ben because

[R9907-75] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Steve, do you feel like your questions | 2018-07-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Correct. Because this this does not include additional services. It's just basic education.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. So the question I have is is I see they were planning on 12 students. But where my question comes into play is how many students do we actually have their level three. And how many students do we have that are actually level two. Because we're cherry picking six students to come back into this program realistically?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Well, we know that Ben can speak to this, but we're not taking six kids from outside and bringing them back. We're doing a combination of of, you know, so

[R9907-76] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: 12 students. But where my question comes into play is how many students do we actually have their level three. And how many students do we have that are actually level two. Because we're cherry picking six students to come back into this program realistically?
TEXT> Well, we know that Ben can speak to this, but we're not taking six kids from outside and bringing them back. We're doing a combination of of, you know, so why don't you.
NEXT> Ben: Yeah. Yeah, sure. So it's a it's a. The answer is not entirely quantifiable. Right. I would say, but we're looking at it like Mike said, we're looking at at

[R9907-77] Ben | SAU 6 special education administrator, new role from July 2, 2018 (int | 2018-07-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Well, we know that Ben can speak to this, but we're not taking six kids from outside and bringing them back. We're doing a combination of of, you know, so why don't you.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah, sure. So it's a it's a. The answer is not entirely quantifiable. Right. I would say, but we're looking at it like Mike said, we're looking at at least 3 to 4 kids that we can bring back fairly quickly, which would result in immediate cost savings.  And then there's certainly the principals. There's been some discussion over the past year,  the principles that identified a number of students that you know, in, for all practical purposes, should be in at a district placement. And so instead of those, let's say there's another three that should be in a district placement, we're going to be to keep them in that level three program. The level, the level two program, which, which Mike spoke to a bit a bit earlier, is not quite as as intensive, but there's certainly more than six kids between the three elementary schools that we can service there that are not going to be disrupting the learning of the other kiddos. I think. I think at one point the principals, along with Corey, identified 19 students,  between the three buildings  that that would be slotted, so to speak, for our district placement or, you know, you know, intense, tense need.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So whereby the concern rises is, okay, so we're going to take care of a total of 12 out of 19 at this point. That's you know, that's a start.

[R9907-81] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair ('I guess I don't have to recognize [79]  | 2018-07-18
PREV> Ben: Exactly. Yeah.
TEXT> I just I just want to speak to that for a second. In my experience in Newport, we had a fairly good alternative program over there. And one of the things that made it successful was that we had a teacher teaching content. We actually had two psychotherapists just for that program. Two, they weren't dealing with any other kids. And so and I think I heard you saying this, maybe I didn't, but you have to have dedicated staff that's there. Because de-escalation and such have to happen immediately. It isn't where you've got a student who's, in crisis or having an episode and trying to find the person. They're in another meeting there somewhere. You've got to have those people right there. And that's, I think, the the premise of this program, is it not that you have people, right?
NEXT> Mike Kell: When you look at the whole child, you've got to really look at a continuum. Of care. And that continuum kicks.

[R9907-82] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: who's, in crisis or having an episode and trying to find the person. They're in another meeting there somewhere. You've got to have those people right there. And that's, I think, the the premise of this program, is it not that you have people, right?
TEXT> When you look at the whole child, you've got to really look at a continuum. Of care. And that continuum kicks.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Sorry.

[R9907-95] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Steve, do you feel like your questions | 2018-07-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: we are. But I think and Ben can probably talk to this better. But these these people are specialists in that as opposed to to a general psychologist. I mean, they deal with these these types of issues all the time. And I think that's.
TEXT> That goes back to my IEP question because I'm looking at we're we're looking at placing children out of district or in district in this case. And that's what part of what the psychologists were paying for does. So I'm just trying to clarify because I,  I,  I don't understand it all. So it's better for me to ask the questions because these questions, it still bothers me thinking of seven children not able to be covered that we have partially identified. And even if it does turn to 15, I mean, we could obviously get on the ball to get those identifications done, I guess.
NEXT> Ben: I mean, I.

[R9907-100] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Two things that that you want to look at. The first is.
TEXT> When it comes to identifying the student, your school psychologist does the psychiatric or the the the ed psych, and they determine where the metal in the educational ability is. So they're really looking at that. The schools that our social worker, they're trained as mental health therapists and they deal with the trauma based of children all the time. So what that collaboration looks like, and I think, Ben, that one of the people at the table, your school psychologists,  that when we have that collaborative team, we've talked about a screening program so that what looks like to answer your question, Stephen, is, is when you look at that assessment program, that 4590 that could have more success when you're bringing a student in and you're working with that. That's where I think your school psychologist comes in and you're looking at what are the strategies and techniques for that child to be successful back into their special ed classroom, their inclusion or self-contained classroom. So that, I think, is the rotation of that piece of making sure that the child is ready. One of the things we do not want to do, and in fact,  Ben and I and Mike and I and Corey, we talked about originally, I wasn't ready to bring a level three kid back. And they'll tell you that because of the needs of that level three  child. And if we build it with the supports,  then we have that piece there.
NEXT> Mike Kell: But I really look at when you're talking about this, you're looking at collaboration. I think that that is what we want to do because we're all here, gather around

[R9907-101] Mike Kell | Bridges Program / Meadows School, Brattleboro Retreat, presenter (self | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: I and Corey, we talked about originally, I wasn't ready to bring a level three kid back. And they'll tell you that because of the needs of that level three child. And if we build it with the supports, then we have that piece there.
TEXT> But I really look at when you're talking about this, you're looking at collaboration. I think that that is what we want to do because we're all here, gather around the table for kids and for kids to be successful. And so the more we collaborate and we build the program,  it's going to be successful.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So typically our school psychologist are at the table at these meetings anyway. I mean, you're talking about heavy hitter kids right now. So normally the psychologist who evaluated in

[R9907-102] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized 'Rebecca and Steve' [113 | 2018-07-18
PREV> Mike Kell: looking at collaboration. I think that that is what we want to do because we're all here, gather around the table for kids and for kids to be successful. And so the more we collaborate and we build the program, it's going to be successful.
TEXT> So typically our school psychologist are at the table at these meetings anyway. I mean, you're talking about heavy hitter kids right now. So  normally the psychologist who evaluated in this district anyway is typically at that meeting, correct. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Does that help at all? Steve I don't know if it helps.,
NEXT> Ben: I can I answer to. Please the school site question. It's a it's a good question. You know, in Claremont there's o six. Our school sites are used to test

[R9907-107] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Steve, do you feel like your questions | 2018-07-18
PREV> Jason Benware: So that's.
TEXT> Is here for, for me because I'm just sitting here looking at your telling seven children or seven families. Hey, sorry. We got a program here, but, there's not room for you, and that's not how we can operate. Sure, we need to do business clean and efficiently, but we need to serve our community equally. We can't just cherry pick. And that was my biggest concern, because our tax dollars come from the entire community. And we can't just exclude their somebody's child who's paying into that system. And that's that was where my concern was based.  So I'm ready to go forward okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any other any other comments? All those in favor are opposed. Nice job guys.

[R9907-123] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair ('I guess I don't have to recognize [79]  | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. How are you? Thank you so much.
TEXT> I'm very pleased to see that that you're interested in taking on this a tough job. I couldn't help but think that, when we were talking about the alternative program, what was going on in the teachers minds in the back of the room about how many students would benefit from an alternative program. And I suspect that in their minds, it's probably more than 19.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9907-215] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair ('I guess I don't have to recognize [79]  | 2018-07-18
PREV> Jason Benware: don't, when they get the I know all the kids get the policies and they have to sign off on receiving it. Do all of the teachers do the same? Is my question, because I think that if indeed they do, then they're sort of.
TEXT> There's a teacher handbook in a in a student handbook.
NEXT> Jason Benware: But does the teacher handbook outline the, the, the cell phone policy in the same regard as the student handbook is what I'm curious about? Because that's what I mean.

[R9907-216] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (asks whether the program can expand [69 | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: There's a teacher handbook in a in a student handbook.
TEXT> But does the teacher handbook outline the, the,  the cell phone policy in the same regard as the student handbook is what I'm curious about? Because that's what I mean. I want, I want, what's the word I'm thinking of? I want them to own it as a teacher. If you're signing off on this, that means you know the policy. And if our expectation is for them to  follow the policy and they know the policy, then, then that's important.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. So I'm going to take it from you folks that I'm going to write up something and I'll send it along to Corey to forward to the to the

[R9907-227] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mike, are we doing a superinten | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> So the question becomes how do you enforce that? Well, the, the, the person who's enforcing who's who enforces it, everybody who's a district employee, other student, I mean, who's enforcing it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think that's I think.

[R9907-237] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member ('Steve, do you feel like your questions | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Being followed. Against what.
TEXT> People are just kind of snubbing the nose of the policy in some areas, too, because they know it exists. If they're not, students aren't supposed to be using them in their line and  use them in the classroom.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So here's I'm going to cut you off for a second, Carolyn. So I think what we want is evidence that it's important and evidence that is that it's important.

[R9907-247] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (onsets of the cell-phone comments after | 2018-07-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Carolyn.
TEXT> I just. Wanted to remind the board that during. Our. Senior luncheon  was when I had five students at my table, and each one of them didn't know what the policy really was. And that's when it really hit home to me  that it has to be followed through  in, in as a ministry down.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So Jason. And I encountered the same thing.

[R9907-252] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (asks whether the program can expand [69 | 2018-07-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> It is my hope that any adult teacher that comes into our district reads the policies before they sign them with a kid, even though it's not excusable, it's understandable if we're hiring teachers that can't read policy and understand it, and then they sign off on it. That's on them. Let me just put that out there.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Could comment on that.

[R9928-75] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent nominee, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Doctor Keith Pfe | 2018-07-26
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I second it, Michelle.
TEXT> Good evening. And I'll try to keep this brief, but I thought you might want to be able to put a face and a name together. Simply 45 years in public education. I'm proud of that.  To serve the  children of the communities where I have worked in, elected your community and all those variety positions I started way back in 1972, three, in the city of Philadelphia as a social studies teacher, and I taught U.S. history and Pennsylvania subject two courses at Central High School. And, I'm sorry that I turned something on. And then I taught  Dobbins the courses that came to me for that, started up by Sugarloaf Abrams High School, where I taught social studies. That was 1974. The latter part of that year, I changed Monmouth Academy, taught special education, then proceeded to continue to teach for that. The fact that I want to the first secondary special ed teachers don't ever have an excellent English teacher who supported me and helped me with that, and taught me a lot. After Monmouth, I went to Miranda Cook, and after I after Miranda Cook, I went, I came here because my wife had taken a position in at Plymouth State, and we had gone to Penn State in Vermont. I loved the year in Gardner, Maine, and I came over here. I worked in 23 to our north. Actually, I was the one central office administrators and as superintendent, that was not in Woodville.
NEXT> Unidentified: I was moving.

[R9928-83] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent nominee, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Doctor Keith Pfe | 2018-07-26
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: And I like your time. Thank you.
TEXT> That's why I have a myriad of save the child ties. This is my social studies. I have science, math. Yeah.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Very nice. Carolyn, I just,

[R9950-9] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Will we do.
TEXT> That discussion of I can read the consideration of confidential financial information that is exempt from public disclosure under RSA 9185. And if you look at RSA 91-85. It's, personal school records of pupils.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. So would we do that at the end of the meeting?

[R9950-18] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: I'll make a motion to approve the minutes.
TEXT> I'll second. Thank you. Further discussion on those minutes. None. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Thank you. We don't have a student rep. Yeah. We'll go to the superintendent's report to do the honors for you.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I'm going to introduce Doctor Pfeiffer to the Claremont School Board. He's our interim superintendent. He has prepared a report for you this evening. He started with us on Monday.

[R9950-22] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced by LeClair as 'Doctor Pfeiff | 2018-08-15
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: and they may be talking to somebody in Hong Kong or Indonesia or wherever. Which, you know, that was 20, 25 years ago was not the case. So there's been a big change, but we want to make sure they can compete in that world.
TEXT> You know, Corey really handled this, did a good job. We did have one student in the summer program at Disney,  who fell on in the on the swingset at the playground,  broken arm. All all our policies relative to injuries were followed. And the student was transported to the hospital and is mending. And Corey, when dad leave it there.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Okay. Thank you. Cell phones were a discussion at the July 18th meeting in terms of how individual buildings were implementing their procedures related to cell phones. So we have

[R9950-23] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: the summer program at Disney, who fell on in the on the swingset at the playground, broken arm. All all our policies relative to injuries were followed. And the student was transported to the hospital and is mending. And Corey, when dad leave it there.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. Cell phones were a discussion at the July 18th meeting in terms of how individual buildings were implementing their procedures related to cell phones. So we have an administrative retreat on this Friday. We have one full day with all administrators, and it's our opportunity to ensure that our practices are aligned across the district, review any procedural things before the start of the school year, and, get on the same page before students and staff roll back. So that would be a topic of discussion with the administrative team across the district this Friday to ensure that what you all, as the board have approved in student handbooks  for policy and procedure related to cell phones, is  implemented consistently across buildings and across the district. So I want to just provide that information for you.  And the second piece of information to provide is that we have, at Bluff Elementary, we qualify for a c p program. That's community. Mike, help me out with a and the p.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Program is a p. I'll I'll come back that.

[R9950-50] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael O'Neill: We also get $1,610 in extra adequacy for everybody who's eligible for free and reduced, and that's a big piece to it.
TEXT> So in a time then we can we'll discuss this later in the agenda. But in a time where  revenue sources are limited for public education in this district in particular, it's helpful to do everything we can to to offset that. And completing those forms is one way and it's confidential. It's online. If folks want to access it directly, there's no  they don't have to have a paper form that they have to turn back into their school. So they don't have that potential stigma of handing it to somebody they know in their in their school. It can be done online.  We'll have some, that available at the Back to School festival as well. So just as you're, as you're talking with folks and as you think about yourselves or school students in the districts,  consider consider filling those out. You never know.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: And I think another important benefit is that we can assure that students are eating at least two times a day.

[R9950-51] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced by LeClair as 'Doctor Pfeiff | 2018-08-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: be done online. We'll have some, that available at the Back to School festival as well. So just as you're, as you're talking with folks and as you think about yourselves or school students in the districts, consider consider filling those out. You never know.
TEXT> And I think another important benefit is that we can assure that students are eating at least two times a day.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's really so important.

[R9950-58] Susan Mason | Public commenter, Winter Street, Claremont (self-identified [91]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Could have been me.
TEXT> You regarding and you were saying it was going to be dealt with tonight and everything. And that's one of the reasons I'm here. But,  that's something that up until my granddaughter started in the school system in this town she had never had in her life, she had never had lice. Nothing. She started kindergarten here. She had it four times in that,  three times before Christmas and twice afterwards. And it got to a point where it was so bad that I myself lost 14 days of work trying to deal with the situation. And it was not because of her. It was because of two of her classmates. And that is to me, out of control. And because of that, she goes to daycare before and after school. She was not allowed to go because she was allowed. People were allowed to have head lice in school and because she contracted it from them two weeks before school started. I can tell you right now she had nothing. Within three weeks of school starting, she had her first case. And she had been she's been in daycares and everything else since she was two and a half, and never once had that situation happen. And to be hit by that within three weeks of the school year starting was a little outrageous. And to me, that's unacceptable. Because I am not going to send my child to school with head lice.
NEXT> Susan Mason: And have to deal with it for the whole school year, because 1 or 2 parents aren't dealing with it, or they're being allowed not to deal with it. You

[R9950-59] Susan Mason | Public commenter, Winter Street, Claremont (self-identified [91]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Susan Mason: half, and never once had that situation happen. And to be hit by that within three weeks of the school year starting was a little outrageous. And to me, that's unacceptable. Because I am not going to send my child to school with head lice.
TEXT> And  have to deal with it for the whole school year, because 1 or 2 parents aren't dealing with it, or they're being allowed not to deal with it. You guys can say you, as the board can say, okay, as long as they have been treated, once they can come back ten days later, it can reinvest itself. And nothing's being done at that point. And then it just goes and goes and goes. But other situations that you've been talking about tonight  are also affected to me. Like the school lunch thing that you were referring to. My child goes to just not school. She does get the free lunch, but that's going to help you in the long run. But sending out the email to all the parents doesn't always work. I refuse to do anything for the school system online because I do not in any way, shape or form want my granddaughter's information on the internet. I am her guardian because of a situation that I don't allow pictures of  her being taken a lot of different things, so sending out an email is fine, but some of us don't deal with it. I. I never got a school report card by email. I never got any information. I refused to sign up for your power program or whatever. I do not want to have anything internet based as far as my granddaughter is concerned, so sending out emails doesn't always hit all the targets.
NEXT> Susan Mason: And that's something you guys also have to look at. You may say, okay, send it out. His email to everybody regarding this school lunch program form. I won't get

[R9950-103] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: Well, thank you for the clarification.
TEXT> Okay. I think that's also. Gives us an opportunity. To explore relationships. With. Different providers and, and with more time and ensure that we are working or contracting with a provider. That. Can meet all of our needs in a way that satisfies  not only the the needs of our individual students, but our financial needs as a district for the long term. You know, it's certainly disappointing for  us to receive what we were told was a comprehensive. Proposal. And then. Get something very different later on. And at this point being, you know, getting these figures within the last few days and being August 15th,  to have a September 4th go date, even with the break even program, is now challenging at best.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Yeah.

[R9950-106] Unidentified | SAU 6 administrator presenting the Bridges out-of-district program upd | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: I assume that we're contracted with Brattleboro Retreat for the this coming year, 1819. How far is our contract with.
TEXT> So it's it's it's we contract on a kid by kid basis  for one year okay.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So we do have the option to definitely pull every all our resources and revenue expense away from them. And the reason I'm asking that is, is because basically, the

[R9950-108] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: it was basically a grandma was a rule. So with that said, I would like to definitely explore options as a district to pull everything away from Brattleboro retreat, because if they want to play business like that, that's not the way Claremont conducts business.
TEXT> So, In hearing the having been here for the original,  our original attempts at alternative programing in-house and then the probable retreat model,  it struck me that the main difference was that their  mental health pieces that come into play, where you've got the dedicated staff,  so that kids that are in distress don't wind up in the high school guidance office or in the high school assistant principal's office. Everything is pretty self-contained as far as dealing with kids behaviors and dealing with their academics. So I you know, one of the things I, we do have, their model is interesting to know. You know, a goal to work on would be how do we work with, staffing?  And I'm not suggesting we've got extra staff to do it because I know we don't, but, but that mental health piece,  how do we fold that in? Because I think that's that's the missing piece in my mind.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think that's a really important point. The students we're talking about who need a program like this are. Their academics is not the first priority right now. They they

[R9950-109] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: how do we work with, staffing? And I'm not suggesting we've got extra staff to do it because I know we don't, but, but that mental health piece, how do we fold that in? Because I think that's that's the missing piece in my mind.
TEXT> I think that's a really important point. The students we're talking about who need a program like this are. Their academics is not the first priority right now. They they are,  are some emotional and behavioral health needs that require a therapeutic setting that we currently are not equipped to meet. And so looking at it beyond what we currently do and, and making sure students are getting what they need in order to be successful is critical.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think a reaction. At least from my point of view, is, is sort of, we're treating them with punitive as opposed to therapeutically. I think that that's the shift

[R9950-123] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Numbers are large and scary with the numbers to send students out are also large and scary, as well as the effect on the student that has to travel 45 minutes each way or, you know.
TEXT> Not to mention the students who are in the classroom whose learning is being disrupted by those whose needs are not being met because it's not a therapeutic environment.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I think.

[R9950-129] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Students something you're going to keep working on this?
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[R9950-154] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: off the fact that we're having a pretty good turnover rate of staff with three retirements out of five classes, remind you that 60% and a new director, do you feel that we've deferred out far enough, or should we really be considering another deferment?
TEXT> That's a good question. I think we have, by deferring it for two years, that gives us a 2021. I think we can get up to speed to be there. That's my assessment. And, you know, Corey and I've been talking about I feel comfortable with that. I don't feel comfortable with the the original dates on it. I think those would be two 2019. By next year we would not be ready. But I think by two years we would definitely get the community input. Part of it is getting surveys from the community, from the students. Working with Newport's Sugar River tech and sharing that information. I'll be involved with their process because we are a region ten board and I'm on that board with them. So I get to kind of see what they're doing right now and either mirror or say, well, we're going to do something a little different because we want to be different.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Wanted to make sure that we're being realistic because we've already deferred we already have the public. Kind of trying to figure out why Claremont dropped the ball on 6

[R9950-195] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Right. Correct. No, no. These are, All of them. I believe all of them are replacing an existing member. There are no new positions. Checking quickly.
TEXT> With names here. Former students.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And, Corey, can you just, address the resignation piece? Because word around town is that people are resigning from Maple. People are still resigning from bluff. Can you speak to

[R9950-206] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So this evening, there are no formal resignations. For us to review.
TEXT> Okay. At this point in time, but we are still feverishly working to fully staff all of our schools. So,  as I get the formal resignations, I can provide that information to you. It wasn't part of the packet this evening, and  I  am  optimistic or hopeful that we don't have any more at this stage in the game because we are close to starting school,  and  it's been a little bit of a challenge. We I think the, the staff changes have been sort of cyclical. We had very few last year and this year we have more. Two years ago we had more. And so it has not been a steady amount every year,  nor has there been a trend to be identified in terms of the number of staff turning over. But people are using faces. New faces will be seen. And  I know that the principles are working on their welcoming letters. And in some cases where I, I received an email tonight as a parent to say, you know, if you, as a parent of Maple Avenue, for instance, want to know which teacher your child has, you can go into your power school portal and find out or,  in the case that the the teacher hasn't been hired yet for your particular child's classroom, then it will just say, you know, new teacher grade two or new teacher grade five, whatever it might be.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we're still processing paperwork. And we'll continue to do so.

[R9950-223] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Motion to win.
TEXT> Okay,  I'll move that the  we accept candidate, Timothy,  Bureau replacing Pam Donnelly as a grade three teacher.  Megan Coughlin as an English teacher, replacing Karen Kelson candidate, David Irwin. English language arts for grade eight, replacing Krista Dubuque. Jennifer McPherson. Guidance replacing Shaina Plumley. Jeremy Martin, Grade eight science, replacing Leanne O'Connor. Donna MacDougall, assistant principal, replaces the Nestor  Samantha Bailey. Special education, replacing Linda Cross O'Hara. Grade one replacing Miss Christensen Sandra Wilson, student service coordinator, replacing Miss Callaghan Michael Bennett. Building trades. Future replacing Mr. Ferland.  Addy part. Thank you. Grade seven English language arts teacher replacing Michelle Desolate lose Carmen Miller replacing Spanish teacher replacing a. Yeah, I won't even butcher that. Thank you Linda. And we're going on to Laura Bailey Miller,  alternative math teacher, replacing Ryan Dillon and Jordan Fowler Miller, grade four teacher, replacing Iris. Thanks.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'll second that.

[R9950-256] Laura Byrne | HIV Resource Center, Lebanon, syringe exchange operator (self-identifi | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'll let you. I'm going to let city address that.
TEXT> I just wanted to respond to that because I. I know that, you know, when we were starting our program, the Springfield Health Center,  I really was holding out for the for the health center location because I didn't want to be driving around Springfield with my car with a, you know, plus, I couldn't  offer clients to services that I can on site at the health center where I can actually actually do hepatitis and HIV testing. So but I know one of the concerns they had, they were concerned about having children, that that my clients would be interacting with children in the waiting room. And,  and but the fact is that my clients have children and sometimes they are in the waiting room playing with other children.  And, you know, in the in the number of years that I've been operating syringe exchange in, in white River and in, now in Springfield, we've never had an incident. It's not like people,  people are very discouraged from carrying drugs on their person. When they come to an exchange. They can carry the needles. We don't want people. We're not a safe injection site. We don't want people injecting in our bathroom. We're very clear about that and people are very respectful of that. I think our our clients are really struggling for the most part, and they're very careful because they appreciate having the service so much that they don't want to do anything that ruins it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I understand.

[R9950-273] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Melissa Lewis: So, again, you're the policy setters, and I'm going to enforce whatever policy you all set, knowing that that I have great connections with others if they're needed.
TEXT> My, my,  my only comment is that some of the people who might be using the needle exchange are actually  parents of students at this node and siblings of students at Disney Art.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So you were were not, naive to the I mean, we've had families who whose children have watched their parents overdose and, have not had a successful experience with that.

[R9950-274] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair: 'Thank you Melissa' [429, | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: My, my, my only comment is that some of the people who might be using the needle exchange are actually parents of students at this node and siblings of students at Disney Art.
TEXT> So you were were not, naive to the I mean, we've had families who whose children have watched their parents overdose and, have not had a successful experience with that. So it is traumatic. It can be traumatic.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's part of the culture.

[R9950-287] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: and two pair of positions, and a position where someone would be coordinating the program as well. The day would run the same time frame, 725 to 206 as the as the high school, but the composition of the day would, would look somewhat different.
TEXT> And so now that we have  one crisis counselor dedicated to the high school, the same individual five days a week, going to dedicate the first hour of her day to the high school, to the all to program. And so that therapeutic component, she'll provide that to, to the best of her abilities in the first hour.  That would include group meeting, individual sessions. And that's when the students and the staff will all meet together to outline their personalized learning behavior and social goals for the day. Each student will have created a PLP for themselves in conjunction with staff and parents. Within the first couple of weeks of of the year, that personalized learning plan will have all their state assessments. Any other eye ready scores that we have for that student, any grades that they have, in their file that that will be there so students can set goals for reading levels, math levels, etc. but it'll also give them an opportunity in the beginning of every day to say, what are my social, emotional, and academic goals today?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Today in math, in social studies, in English, in science? How am I going to behave today versus yesterday? One of my social interactions with my peers going to be,

[R9950-289] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: afternoon activities, of other things like that. But you'll see in the rules and regulations that we've become much stricter. Phones would be deposited at the beginning of the day in one common holding place, with staff turned off and not have access for students.
TEXT> Use of music is something to be earned for students. Et cetera, etc. they would go from their morning meeting and work with the crisis counselor and goal setting into three hours of academics. We have a full. As part of this packet, you would have seen a full curriculum for social Studies, English, math and also science, which I've worked with Miss Al and Miss Tamela at the high school about how we would deliver science curriculum, and that would happen directly at the high school during flex, so that our teachers at the high school wouldn't have to lose travel time. Getting to the all program will do it the other way around. Bring the all students down to the high school because they don't have to worry about that 42 minute block of flex. They can get there, use the full 42 minutes, get back and have their science curriculum that way a couple of times a week. And then  afternoon when we talk about afternoon activities, it's things like accessing the community center,  climbing Arrowhead, going downtown and shopping for, for meals, the use and creation of community meals to create a culture of a school within a school in that, in that environment.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So students are cooking. They're they're learning table etiquette. They're learning how to set a table, how to eat at a table, how to put a menu together, how to

[R9950-297] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Further discussion. Steve.
TEXT> I, I just need some clarification on the page that was just presented tonight. Use of earbuds, headphones to listen to music while working independently. How are they going to be doing that if their cell phones are taking. Because that's one of the most common devices.  And then there's the contradiction in the cell phone piece. If the teacher requests that students use their phone and personal devices for academic purposes, they may be retrieved and used for those purposes. That's also a contradiction to the school board policy about use during class time. So those are the clarifications I need, please.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So I am open to suggestions from the board because currently the, the, the the way in which we have addressed cell phone usage at the high school is that

[R9950-298] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: the teacher requests that students use their phone and personal devices for academic purposes, they may be retrieved and used for those purposes. That's also a contradiction to the school board policy about use during class time. So those are the clarifications I need, please.
TEXT> So I am open to suggestions from the board because currently the, the, the the way in which we have addressed cell phone usage at the high school is that if the teacher is using that phone for curricular purposes in the classroom, that is a okayed usage of that phone, as well as students who, focus better or take tests better while listening to music. We we know that that's the case for a lot of students. And so we have been allowing that at the high school. The difference at the all is that a student would have to earn that privilege in order to be able to use those devices in that way.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I was actually going to get to the high school when I actually had that. One of my notes about the permit, teacher permission, I think that contradicts what we've

[R9950-313] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: a part of the problem that they kids are getting kind of the s when we take their phones away from them. It means they are addicted to them and not in a positive way. So I am not disagreeing with what anybody has said.
TEXT> I'm trying to also find the balance as an educator, knowing that at the high school level, they will be using these devices in their places of work and have to know how to use them appropriately. And is that not a part of what we should be teaching them? So I'm trying to balance that educationally, knowing that are we are we providing a real world atmosphere for them, knowing the role that these devices will and do play for them in the rest of their lives? And shouldn't we be a part of helping them to navigate how to use them appropriately? When I go to a conference with fellow educators, we're all entrusted to have our phones on. And we all do. And throughout a conference or a workshop, we're all checking our emails. But we we know professionally how to do that and to do it appropriately and respectfully. We've learned that somehow. And I think that's an important thing for us to be teaching kids how to do. I do struggle with how to to do that. Do it well, be fair, be consistent, not have that device abused. I see our teachers learning all these new technologies for how to test kids on their phones, and the answers are going immediately to the teachers laptop.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It's amazing. And we we have been asking for teachers to build up their technology and how to use that technology in the classroom. And they are. And often the

[R9950-314] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: with how to to do that. Do it well, be fair, be consistent, not have that device abused. I see our teachers learning all these new technologies for how to test kids on their phones, and the answers are going immediately to the teachers laptop.
TEXT> It's amazing. And we we have been asking for teachers to build up their technology and how to use that technology in the classroom. And they are. And often the delivery source is the cell phone is the is the smartphone.  So I also worry that we take away that really exciting, engaging piece of our curriculum because we aren't being consistent. And to to look at it maybe from the other perspective of saying, we have to come down on making sure that the teachers are doing what they need to be doing, and the students are and we're following up.  But I'm not disagreeing. I'm just putting these other pieces out on the table to just explain my own conflict as an educator.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Steve. And then Jason.

[R9950-326] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named on this recordin | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: curriculum. It's an extremely efficient and engaging way for those kids to take a reading comprehension test and to gauge where the kids are. And now the teacher knows who read, who doesn't, who didn't read, what has what do they have to go over?
TEXT> He has immediate formative feedback from his students about that particular thing. That's just one incident where I was I was impressed at the at the great use of technology using using cell phones. And there's many, many more. But with it comes all the other stuff that we know is negative. And I don't disagree.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thanks, Bob.

[R9950-356] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Unidentified: So he.
TEXT> Was  withdrawn? Yeah. Can I make a motion? Sure.  I would like to amend the alternate behavioral programs policies in relation to the phones by deleting the last sentence. And I'm quoting, if the teacher requests that students use their phones or personal devices for academic purposes, they may be retrieved and used for those purposes. I would like to see that deleted. We'll leave the music thing alone for now, because I think that's going to benefit from the study, from the retreat.
NEXT> Jason Benware: A second.

[R9950-398] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Stephens. High school student parent handbook probably knew that math.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: There again, there's not a lot of really content changes other than the what we've added that we thought were important that other schools have in their handbook, such as

[R9950-438] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (self-identified as chairman [148]) | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: This you.
TEXT> Elementary student parent handbook.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I believe. That you received a document that had all of a summary of our changes, as well as a draft of the handbook. Anything highlighted in yellow is a

[R9950-439] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair: 'Thank you Melissa' [429, | 2018-08-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Elementary student parent handbook.
TEXT> I believe. That you received a document that had all of a summary of our changes, as well as a draft of the handbook. Anything highlighted in yellow is a proposed change. A couple of things just to highlight and a quick apology. You'll notice when it comes to the head lice section, we removed everything that was there and referred with an and replace that with a statement of please see current policy because we know that that was something that you were all actively engaged in. Our intention there would be, if the policy changes, when the policy changes, that we would certainly go in and add that to the electronic version that parents will have access to,  as well as sent home a paper copy to ensure that all children and families have access to that. So that would be how we would accommodate for that.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: Good.

[R9950-444] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-08-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: I move the way.
TEXT> Accept the student handbook for the elementary school as it is in front of us.
NEXT> Unidentified: Second.

[R9950-475] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Patricia Barry: So you.
TEXT> Know what? It is perfect. So thank you, Frank, for determining to be on a curriculum council, the multi-tiered system of support leadership team. So this is our system of care grant that we received a couple million dollars over a four plus year period. And this is talking about  putting. Some of you may know as RTI or  PBIs, but we have the idea of multi-tiered systems of supports ensuring that students are getting what they need, not only academically but behaviorally. And so as, we've talked a lot this evening about alternative programs and, expectations for students in the classrooms and things of that nature,  we need a more systemic and unified approach to behaviors so that you don't have, you know, this is allowed in this teacher's classroom, but not in this teacher's classroom. And we have expected and common responses to things. So we have  begun to implement a multi-tiered system of support in some schools. The middle school was able to make a lot of progress with this last year, and Disney has made a lot of progress last year.  And we have support that's funded by the System of Care grant through Unh in terms of professional development and leadership and training, and we are continuing to roll this out as schools have the capacity to do so and readiness to do so.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Bluff had a good start last year, but some of the folks or many of the folks that were on Bluffs MTS Committee have moved on to different opportunities. And

[R9950-506] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' [42-43, 329]; 'Cary' [5 | 2018-08-15
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. It's two.
TEXT> One Thursday a month, 230 to 430 for multi-tiered system support. That's really going to be more behaviorally focused. What are what do we have in place for behaviors and expectations related to that? And how are we supporting kids? And then a community engagement leadership team is currently it has been operating on Mondays.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Do you take guests.

[R9953-68] Unidentified | City Councilor called on at [121] ('Counselor ... here'); name not rec | 2018-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: need to stop and keep remembering. That's what we're talking about. So I know it's a lot of money, and I agree that we keep talking about it, but we don't want to invest and we know we have to invest to get back out.
TEXT> So I just want to I know I'm the one who always says, let's do it, but I do really think we should do this, and I don't think we should do it this second. But I do think we should make a plan for the next fiscal year of making this happen for ourselves. I do think that the city could use it just as much as the schools, but I do agree the schools are what everything grows out of. Everybody looks at the schools when they want to move here. Where are my kids going to go? The schools, really, everything comes out of the schools. So I do agree that that's very important. And I think all of your objectives, objective A questions are very important, but I can tell you from where I work, we have a very similar kind of problem where we have like clinical and admin world, and we have people who work solely in one area and we have to manage with two areas. So we have joint kind of ownership of one person over two areas, and we work with a secondary person in both areas of managing one person. So I know it can happen, but you really do need to partner with that person and have a person that, like, you really have to trust and they have to trust you. So I think it's difficult, but we can do it.
NEXT> Unidentified: So some of these questions I do agree are difficult, but if you have the right partner on the other side, you can make it work.

[R9953-81] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (chair recognizes 'Councilor Polk' [376]; Pie | 2018-08-09
PREV> Scott Pope: it's probably not going to be funded in the near future. But, you know, we can't forget about all these things we wish were being done. And we talked about our employers being done. And I'm going to tell you something else about the students.
TEXT> We're already asking a lot from the students. Yeah. Trust me, I, I kind of know that with my job. And so it's not that they're being lazy. It's just we've got curriculum that they have to hold and all that and voluntary things, sports, other things. The high rollers are doing a lot of those things. There probably would be some that are interested and I would welcome people talking to them. That'd be a great idea. Service learning.  I will close my thoughts with. I remember when Mayor Lovett and other school board members used to write the weekly school updates, and how that really helped keep people informed. We used to use the update here at the tech center. Mayor Lovett, when then a school board member used to come up and ask us what we were doing, and it was very welcome. And so I do know from past experience how valuable this position can be. And I know from current experience what a vacuum we have without that position.
NEXT> Russell: So.

[R9953-87] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, co-presiding (addressed 'Madam Mayor' [71, 80]; 'M | 2018-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Because we want to make the investment of broadening the tax base, which means we have to bring people into the community. We have to grow this community if we're really going to impact the tax rate with a couple of things need to happen.
TEXT> We have to increase our  our property values. We have to bring more people in. We have to have growth. The other thing is we need to bring people into this school district because unless  I'm mistaken, when you have out of district people students coming in, you get approximately what is it, 15,000? I don't know what the figure is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Now the tuition fees of the districts are 14 and change. So 15 is a fair number.

[R9953-89] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, co-presiding (addressed 'Madam Mayor' [71, 80]; 'M | 2018-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Now the tuition fees of the districts are 14 and change. So 15 is a fair number.
TEXT> So that increases your revenue stream which is going to enable you to do more within your school district. So my recommendation is we can talk about utilizing the resources we have. But I agree with a couple of statements that have been made. I know we are all stretched thin, and if you want learning opportunities or service opportunities, get somebody in that knows what public information officer, public relations, online presence,  online management of your. I mean management of your online presence. Get somebody who really knows, then communicate with your school district and the students there and that say, if you're interested in pursuing this type of career, would you like to do a small internship with this person who is an expert in their field? Make that kind of investment, and then you're going to see other things happen. But I think the time is to stop talking about it and take the risk because there is some risk. Do a pilot program, see what happens, have measurable goals, and then determine if those goals can they if there what did you see change. And and if you didn't get what you thought might come out of it, then it's one year that we've all learned something, but. We've got to move forward. I think because Claremont is not growing in population, it's just not.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I recognize.

[R9953-99] Allen Damren | Assistant Mayor, Claremont (mayor: 'assistant mayor D'Amour' [184]; 'M | 2018-08-09
PREV> Allen Damren: earlier this week, I believe, about the fact that, you know, something is a dearth of information about what our collective thoughts might be regarding Pleasant Street revitalization, and see how do we get some of that out into the public to generate some excitement.
TEXT> Have we done what we needed to do with a number of new businesses? Do people even know the number of new businesses that have moved in or started up? And I'm not speaking of big companies, these could be small, medium, whatever it may be. From the school side, I think certainly remarketing and revitalizing programs and students and so forth within the tech center, the building we're sitting in,  is certainly a vital task that needs to be addressed and be done. So I think we need someone. I think we need to  to borrow the mayor's, approach to a pilot.  But I wouldn't even do a pilot until such time as we had a list or a plan  of what? That person or company or whomever, what they were to be doing. We could sit down, any one of us, or a group of us,  and bombard the poor person with a number of ideas and different things that could be done. Their eyes would be going around in a circle. So if we agree to go ahead with something on a pilot plan and and do it and see if it works, let's not do that until such time as we have  an identifiable  program of what we want to see accomplished with a program developed and approved by this body, because otherwise I don't think we're going to get what we want to get when it comes out the other end.
NEXT> Allen Damren: When we do any kind of, evaluation of this effort come June or May or whatever next year, we're talking about doing something that's new, but little bits and pieces

[R9953-240] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, co-presiding (addressed 'Madam Mayor' [71, 80]; 'M | 2018-08-09
PREV> Jason Benware: 15 year old at the high school, they can go live on their Facebook account just like that. I mean, it's really quite simple. You can stream all day long. Okay, so I'm just wondering about recorded. Yeah, you'd probably hit a lot more people.
TEXT> Okay, good. All right. We got a plan. Now, back on schedule. So the next item on the agenda is scheduling new futures training I sent out. If I don't know if everybody saw the training menu, it was sent out. So.  And  if you recall from our previous conversation with former Superintendent Goodwin and the believe the school board weighed in, that the, one of the issues of concern within the school district is children's behavior, behavior. And, if that is indeed still the case, I think it might be best if we go ahead and schedule that training. It's a 1 to 2 hour presentation, and basically it would be an opportunity for us to learn what bells are coming down the pike or what are currently in play that deal with behavioral health. We can share with the trainers  what concerns we have and what legislation might be implemented or supported to address some of the questions, concerns that we have both at the school district but within the entire community, because we're all affected by behavioral health. So, if that is okay with you, I just need some ideas of when you would like to have this type of training.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I just add one piece to that. You know, we just had a discussion about funding and, school funding being a priority. Our, our school funding crisis is directly tied

[R9953-245] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, co-presiding (addressed 'Madam Mayor' [71, 80]; 'M | 2018-08-09
PREV> Jason Benware: This one.
TEXT> Children's behavioral system in New Hampshire.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Sorry.

[R9953-263] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont, co-presiding (addressed 'Madam Mayor' [71, 80]; 'M | 2018-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: So are you thinking, Mayor Levitt, that this would be, a joint meeting instead of meeting, as we do with an agenda? We would meet for this training.
TEXT> You can do whatever you want, but I think if we're if we're talking about behavioral health, children's behavioral health, and how it impacts both the school district and the community, this is about advocacy at the state level for legislation,  and  we're more powerful if we make us take a position collectively rather than independently. Now, everybody doesn't have to attend the training. I mean, it's not we don't have to. Have a joint meeting to the training is free. If we set it up, those were available can come. But as long as some of us have the knowledge, we can, you know, share it. And then because what we don't what I hate to see is once the legislative session starts, it's too late. Things are moving too fast. You have to understand what you're going to support before that session begins, basically, so you can follow it through. Otherwise you're you're coming at it from if you're lucky, you'll make the hearing. And if you're not, you'll miss the hearing. And then that you miss the opportunity.  So, there is a time element here, and I understand everybody's stretched thin. I'm just trying to respond to what you guys said at the last meeting, which is this is an important issue.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, I think we should go ahead and try to schedule it.

[R9953-291] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (chair recognizes 'Councilor Polk' [376]; Pie | 2018-08-09
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Actually, Scott was before you.
TEXT> I just don't want to clarify. So we are looking at, I just want to make sure Children's Behavioral Health Health System in New Hampshire is our training session.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: That's the last one on the. Yeah.

[R9974-54] Bill | NHSBA search consultant, co-founder of the Center for Secondary School | 2018-08-23
PREV> Barrett Christina: address, either in the documents or through our conversation, by all means, let's make sure that through the course of the evening, we get all your answer, all your questions answered to make sure everybody's comfortable with NHS as we move forward through this process.
TEXT> Good evening. A pleasure to be here. Let Alan and I give you just a little snapshot what our background is. So hopefully we have some credibility with you in terms of what we do.  I'm the co-founder of the center for Secondary School Redesign. We are a school consulting firm that works across the country, and we do lots of stuff. And the search process is just one of the pieces of what we do, but a very important piece. We also do school improvement plans. We work with districts. We work with state policymakers.  We do a lot of improvement of best practices in the classroom personalization, student agency, teacher agency, and so forth, and leadership training for administrators.  As a snapshot of how I got to be a co-founder of the organization, which started about a dozen years ago. I started off  actually after high school of being right up the road here at Dartmouth.  I graduated from Dartmouth and then was in the Army as a leader,  a real focus for me as leadership and always has been, being in leadership positions as well as studying leaders.  After my stint as a captain in the Army for four years, I got a doctorate in clinical psychology, and that focus was with children and families.
NEXT> Bill: So I did lots of work, and I was on the staff of Psychiatric Hospital for kids. And so I know kids and families well. After that, however, I ended

[R9974-55] Bill | NHSBA search consultant, co-founder of the Center for Secondary School | 2018-08-23
PREV> Bill: focus for me as leadership and always has been, being in leadership positions as well as studying leaders. After my stint as a captain in the Army for four years, I got a doctorate in clinical psychology, and that focus was with children and families.
TEXT> So I did lots of work, and I was on the staff of Psychiatric Hospital for kids. And so I know kids and families well. After that, however, I ended up with a Harvard group, and that's where what we're going to be doing tonight really has its start, because I want to talk to you about a very unique process. And I had the good fortune to work for the head of the psychology, sociology and anthropology departments at Harvard, and he was known as the world's top motivation and competency researcher. So what we would do is we would get groups of leaders in companies and in the military and study what the difference was between superstars, averages and poor performers. And the issue was you had to quantify it. So as we work together as a committee, what we're going to do is quantify what success looks like for somebody here. That was I hate to say this really takes me how old I am, but I started with that group in 79, and that was after ten years of being a psychologist and having been in the Army and a few other things,  but I love what I do.
NEXT> Bill: I spent four years with them and then spent over 20 years running my own firm, competing with the Harvard group, very successfully doing what we're doing here tonight, which

[R9974-149] Bill | NHSBA search consultant, co-founder of the Center for Secondary School | 2018-08-23
PREV> Bill: big Wall Street management and acquisition firms, investment banking firms. They have real problems. There were they send out their actual investment bankers, top investment bankers to all your top schools to talk to Harvard Business School, to to Wharton, to Stanford and everything else.
TEXT> The problem was they interviewed 20, 20 kids who were coming out of the business schools, and they had invite 19 of them back to to New York City, because everybody looks so darn good. You get the brightest of the bright. But you know what? 80% of competence that you're looking for is not technical competence. It's all about people competence. It's the social emotional competence that makes the difference. Yeah, yeah. And it's stamina. It's resilience. It's cognitive skills. It's critical thinking.  So what what I did was I went into this firm. I studied their superstars and average performers, all of them extremely bright came out with 11 different competencies. We didn't do roles here. All we needed with the competencies trained the investment bankers how to screen. And in those 11 competencies, about nine of them were non trainable. You know you can't train initiative. You can't train resilience. You know that sort of stuff showed them how to do a storytelling. And in the 20 to 30 minutes they had with that each of those candidates in a day to get just at least one solid story  immediately they were down to inviting only 2 to 3 back, and it made all a world of difference.
NEXT> Bill: This really works. This really works. Not very many people know about it. So we get 6 to 8. You do the telephone screen, try to get one story. We'll

[R9974-211] Rebecca Zullo | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont School Board Vice Chair) | 2018-08-23
PREV> Bill: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> I just had a comment. I really like, the way that you ask the questions and, it reminds me a little bit of, like, cognitive behavioral therapy. Like, along that lines is psychosocial stuff. And I really, like that a lot better than, you know. What are your biggest successes? Have always found interview questions to be kind of crap. So  I like the idea of doing it, in a way that people aren't really expecting and in a way that is not leading them to give the generic answer. We can all say that we loved our job and we love kids, but I, I like this.
NEXT> Barrett Christina: My favorite question is what's your management style? And everybody says I have an open door policy. Every every board, every board feels obligated to ask that question. And every

[R9974-216] Rebecca Zullo | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont School Board Vice Chair) | 2018-08-23
PREV> Bill: study of social emotional intelligence competencies with kids starting in kindergarten, and I'm using a storytelling and it works just as well with kids. And I'm also in one school. All the teachers are being taught how to do this storytelling approach with the kids.
TEXT> I think that's what reminded me of it, because I do occupational therapy, and a lot of what you're talking about is very similar in the way that we work with kids with psychosis disabilities.
NEXT> Bill: Let me turn down for a minute, because he's been a client at one time in our colleagues here. And this time, your observations that struck you about the process.

[R9974-260] Barrett Christina | Executive Director, New Hampshire School Boards Association (self-iden | 2018-08-23
PREV> Bill: you go to the community first and you just, you know, solicit from the community what they think it should be. And then you tell them it's going to be put into a very rigorous process and will be used as part of the input.
TEXT> Some districts have worked with have, have done, you know, survey monkeys that are open for a couple of weeks and you advertised that or they have a special email account where people could send comments or you do a couple of public forums, do one in unity, you do one in Claremont and invite the public in if you want. If you want people to come to criteria pizza childcare. Right? Right, right. Seriously, get get get get some high school kids and give them. You can't pay them. But give, give them credit, right? To volunteer credit and find a room with some toys and order pizza and everything and you'll get people to come. So but that's that's. And you do that on the front end to, to to solicit what are the criteria that we want. What are the what are the things we want in unity. What are the things we want? Claremont. What do we things that we want for the saw to to consider what we're looking for?
NEXT> Unidentified: That's a follow up question.

[R9986-5] Jesse | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name o | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jesse: far. Students from Student Voice will be asking to be on the next school board agenda to make a presentation on the proposed electronic device policy. They're in the process of gathering information from teachers on how to to use cell phones within the curriculum.
TEXT> In addition, our assistant principal, Miss Magee  and Special Ed Building Coordinator, both jobs would like to speak on how this policy will affect special ed  law. And I specifically,  and she did add that I report when discussing the policy and the use of private  modern electronic communication devices. She just wants you to keep in mind that students who use these devices on a daily basis as a way,  there are students who use these devices on a daily basis as a way of classroom survival. These are our special education students. These devices are used for note taking, calendar reminders, school class reminders, picture board notes, translation, and music as a way to  control impulsive behavior. When looking at this policy with just ask that you. Please keep in mind the total Stevens High School population, which would include the students with dips. And I'm going to pass the rest of this over to Prescott.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: And finally, we have 352 signatures from students on a petition that we would like to share with the board. It reads that we, the undersigned students, believe that students

[R9986-6] Prescott Herzog | Student representative, Stevens High School (self-identified 'Prescott | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jesse: a way to control impulsive behavior. When looking at this policy with just ask that you. Please keep in mind the total Stevens High School population, which would include the students with dips. And I'm going to pass the rest of this over to Prescott.
TEXT> And finally, we have 352 signatures from students on a petition that we would like to share with the board.  It reads that we, the undersigned students, believe that students at Stevens.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Preston, Prescott, Prescott. I'm sorry if we could do that during citizens comments. Okay. Okay. Okay. I think it's more appropriate than that. Okay.

[R9986-10] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (thanked as 'Doctor Pfeiffer' after his  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Jeff. Welcome aboard, Jesse and Preston. That's great. Thank you. Prescott press.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. Superintendents report. Well, my written report is in your folder, so you're welcome to the following along. You know, it's been a busy last few weeks in terms of, multiple things. The back to school event I thought was absolutely sensational. I'd like to publicly thank all those involved in the planning and implementation of that event. Over 600 backpacks were given out in about 42 minutes. We also gave out school supplies. Books, and other things to interest families. So, I thought it was a tremendous event. Obviously, we started school yesterday. They turned into monitor up on us a little bit, but we are surviving. And pleased to see so many  students back with us. It looks like our enrollment is down a little bit again from my here, but we'll see how things go out to in about a week and go from there. I am personally working with the town manager and with town officials on multiple projects. We are  looking at some joint ways, perhaps by to provide educational services  with the town and the school working together. Perhaps, maybe by looking at one of our special ed,  areas, we can bring some of our out of district students home, which is costly, and perhaps run a program right here in Claremont. That's on our mind. Certainly part of what we're going to talk about later, relative to  the needle exchange. And  we're, you know, constantly trying to make our buildings safer.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: In terms of access and make sure that students come to school ready to learn. So to thank everybody with helping to get schools open. We was relatively smooth. You

[R9986-11] Keith Pfeifer | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (thanked as 'Doctor Pfeiffer' after his  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Keith Pfeifer: district students home, which is costly, and perhaps run a program right here in Claremont. That's on our mind. Certainly part of what we're going to talk about later, relative to the needle exchange. And we're, you know, constantly trying to make our buildings safer.
TEXT> In terms of access and make sure that students  come to school ready to learn. So to  thank everybody with helping to get schools open. We was relatively smooth. You know, the occasional bus route and  you know, which school am I going to. So we've we're working through all of those. And you know, we've met the satisfaction of the community and  parents in doing so. So, a lot of new staff, a lot a few new ministers.  Between the three districts wanting you to know that we've been involved with 141 vacancies  challenging, we are still looking for some things like special ed teachers, paraprofessionals, and will maintain  our profile and advertising for those positions for some of the special ed positions. We may look at regular education caters for at least the teaching part. They may not have the background for the case management, but we can manage that with existing staff. So we'll see what works. Formerly, Keene State used to produce  teachers who were dual certified. I understand that may  be gone.  I think it's unfortunate because it really helped both regular educators and special educators to work together. So,  I promise you that Paul is coming.
NEXT> Keith Pfeifer: We'll have more color in our lives and enjoyment. You know, our sports teams have started, like to celebrate those people who are involved in the athletic program and wish

[R9986-14] Prescott Herzog | Student representative, Stevens High School (self-identified 'Prescott | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: At this time, I'd like to open it up for citizens comments. So, people like to be recognized and come up to the microphone, state your name and the word that you live in.
TEXT> All right.  Hi again, everyone. So we have a petition  from students of Steve. Oh, sorry. Prescott Herzog, board two. So I have a petition here of 352 students from Stevens High School.  On a petition, we would like to share about the  new cell phone policy.  And the undersigned statement says, we, the undersigned students, believe that the students at Stevens High School should be allowed to have use of private, modern electronic communication devices during class for instructional purposes at all facilities by students and staff. Modern electronic communication devices should be used only for instructional purposes with permission of the teacher. And I'd like to hang this over to the chairman of the board, Mr. Sprague.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you Prescott.

[R9986-19] Susan Mason | Public commenter, Claremont resident (self-identified [29]) | 2018-09-05
PREV> Susan Mason: that her and her other principals could work on since they originally put the book together. But I wanted to let you guys be aware of the situation, that it's not present in the book. And, with the lead, not led, but the life policy.
TEXT> My question to you as a board is who's going to do the training for these screeners? And how do we know that they know what they're doing? Number one, because a lot of parents can take training for an hour and whatever and not know what they're looking at to begin with. Two how are we going to know if a child has it more than four days consecutively? Are they going to be reporting to the school nurse every day or what? What's going to be the situation? Because the fact that you are saying on a monthly basis, the nurse will check or  a screener will check, but how do we know if the parent can do the job to check in that four days? Are you as a board and the nurse is going to be doing that daily check for those four days to determine whether they're going to be put out or referred to a doctor. And that's my questions to you, because if they're not going to be checked on a daily basis, how do we know it's lasting for consecutive days? If the next screening isn't for 26 more days?
NEXT> Susan Mason: And that's something I just wanted to ask and see what was sought up on that aspect. And that's something I like to see addressed, because if the child's got

[R9986-20] Susan Mason | Public commenter, Claremont resident (self-identified [29]) | 2018-09-05
PREV> Susan Mason: to be put out or referred to a doctor. And that's my questions to you, because if they're not going to be checked on a daily basis, how do we know it's lasting for consecutive days? If the next screening isn't for 26 more days?
TEXT> And that's something I just wanted to ask and see what was sought up on that aspect. And that's something I like to see addressed, because if the child's got the first day and the parents don't take care of it or don't know what they're doing the first day and they say, yeah, oh yeah, treatment began and didn't do it long enough or didn't completely work on the hair or something. You may have that person for 2 or 3 weeks of the 26 days till next check. And that's where I'm concerned because I don't want that situation happening again like a last year.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I was just going to say that typically we're not supposed to, comment or engage with citizens comments. So I didn't know. I don't know how you want to

[R9986-30] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I don't think Mike has either'  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Any other citizens like to approach and speak? Oh, that's right Mike.
TEXT> So I'm pulling on my phone here because, once in a while, we get. Messages from people that can't be here. And I'd like to provide, I guess, a voice for them.  So I get a message from Kate Royce from Ward two. She states,  about the the Hope  we are Hope program.  So she says the funding was pulled by the Department of Education Student Wellness Department for that program. As a parent, I'd like to state concern about the funding being pulled for the amazing We our Hope program  at the Federal Middle School. This program has not only helped so many children who are not otherwise receive help, but they are also helping teachers and faculty. I hope that there's some way the school superintendent office can contact the Doe and resolve this immediately, so we are hope can get back into the school and continue their work coaching and assisting kids in need. So like I said, that's from Kate Royce,  Ward two. And I just want to put out there that we, you know, we don't do this often, but we will I will entertain comments that I get and put them out in the citizens comments. Anybody who wants to contact us. But it's really a rare thing that she can't make it. But that was her concern.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Anyone else? Seeing none. Close citizens comments. Going to transition into discussion items. A would be audit update and f fiscal year 2014 statement.

[R9986-140] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Jason' [145],[484]); clu | 2018-09-05
PREV> Peter Wright: I think it was 60. It was. Last year. Okay. It was. 27.
TEXT> So one of the things that stuck out to me and perhaps just oversimplifying this, and if I had just let me know,  I look at the, the number of needles, clean needles distributed and it was 1760. And I look at the number of needles collected and it's 329. So to me it's sort of misleading. You collected 20% of what you gave out. So when I think of needle exchange, my thought is, is if I'm giving one out, I'm getting one taken back. So I think a lot of people, when they're being sold the idea of needle exchange, one of the things they're thinking about is, well, that's going to take needles off of the sidewalks and it's going to take needles off of when my kids are walking down through the park. If only 20% of them are getting taken in, where are the rest going? And should it be called something else? Because it's it's a very  lopsided. How many are being given out for what you guys are taking in?
NEXT> Peter Wright: Yeah, I'm afraid I can't answer that question. So when the project started in 2017, it didn't include Valley Regional. It was at a different location, but it was hosted

[R9986-143] Laura Byrne | Syringe service program, HIV/HCV research center at Dartmouth-Hitchcoc | 2018-09-05
PREV> Ashley Greenfield: know in, in the data that you've received, that was for less than six months. So it's a very short, very small sample of data that you guys are looking at. So just just some thoughts about that. So do you want to come up?
TEXT> Great. I am Laura Byrne and I'm actually with the HIV HB Research Center. I know it was incorrectly written in the notes at Dartmouth-Hitchcock. I'm working with project 4439, which is  volunteer Geisel and medical students to  form a syringe exchange, hopefully in Claremont. But so we actually call our our program syringe service program, and we don't have a one for one exchange policy. Some syringe service programs do have a one for one exchange policy, but there's a lot of research that indicates that if you don't, the needles get dispersed to people that need them, that need clean needles that won't come into syringe exchanges.  And we're trying to get our needles to those people so they don't share needles and other injection equipment. But we really see our program more as  a way to get people in for services. And we don't have an enormous  we don't have a one for one policy. Sometimes we have we have people that regularly bring their needles back. We have people that  do not bring their needles back. And I give out. We have three sizes of sharps containers, really secure, heavy plastic sharps containers that we give clients so they can transport their needles.
NEXT> Laura Byrne: We clients are always encouraged to dispose properly of needles. Our our programs in Vermont. And the Vermont law is that you can actually put needles in a very hard

[R9986-179] Peter Wright | President and CEO, Valley Regional Healthcare (self-identified [210],  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'd also like to see. A solid plan. With. Hours, you know, why not. Weekend hours Saturday when school started sessions. So, you know, I don't know.
TEXT> I don't know. I'm concerned, you know, as long as my facility is open in the area that we're going to choose is open there. Welcome. The team knows that. I think it has a lot to do with when the medical students are available, and what evidence and research they have about what's the most effective day and time. But I'm fine with the weekend. Doesn't doesn't bother me. We I'm happy to kind of work with them. And you know, if you give your approval to this, we'll come back and say, you said you wanted it, you know,  not while schools and sessions. So we're going to do it at this time. Do you think there's some support for the weekend. So we'll take a look at that. It there's definitely a need for it during the week as well. I wouldn't tell you we would do it exclusively on the weekend, because I don't think it would be as successful as if you have it one or both times.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carolyn.

[R9986-193] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Rebecca. Seconded' [1019] f | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: For a second. Can the chair a second? Yes, I'll second that. Thank you. Further discussion.
TEXT> I feel like I would be more open to this if, like Mike said, we could see something that would say it were after school hours and that would need to be coordinated with the principal of the school, because there are afterschool programs that happen in events that happen at the school. And I would definitely be more open minded to the weekends, but I still feel like I just I mean, if there could be a coordinated effort for this program to happen, which I agree with, to to happen when children are not at school  or parents and children after school, then I would be more open minded. I feel like to it if there were a plan for something like that.
NEXT> Unidentified: To to make sure that the hours are after the bell rings a Disney.

[R9986-219] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair 'Melissa' [387]; ASR 'Mr.  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Melissa. Sorry. You know that.
TEXT> There is one after school program run. By Green Mountain Children's Center that is there until 6:00 at night or earlier if students are picked up sooner than that.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So I would be in favor of I would be inclined to approve this if it were happening after programs were done at the school. So 330 is too early

[R9986-220] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Jason' [145],[484]); clu | 2018-09-05
PREV> Melissa Lewis: There is one after school program run. By Green Mountain Children's Center that is there until 6:00 at night or earlier if students are picked up sooner than that.
TEXT> So I would be in favor of I would be inclined to approve this if it were happening after programs were done at the school. So 330 is too early in my opinion.  There's still going to be kids there.
NEXT> Peter Wright: What what I, what I think perhaps I would hope maybe will make you feel better is part of this certainly should be coordination with CPD. And if we could

[R9986-276] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Further discussion. Steve. Go ahead.
TEXT> There was a question asked by a citizen in regards to what our interpretation of the four consecutive school days, consisting of active infestations,  being found at more than one school wide screening in a three month period. So the key thing is, is that yes, they will have to be checked, by the, the nurse or whoever is trained to do so  for an active infestation. And when we say active, we're not talking a nit, we're talking live bugs. If you have started the treatment and done it correctly, it will have killed live bugs 99% of the time. The where the issue is, is that it also gives the school the ability to address the treatment issue.  We cannot. We're not talking about removing that child on that day,  but that means we can go back and reaffirm the understanding of the procedures to treat this correctly, because that's where a lot of the concern has been, is on proper treatment. This gives us an ability to to address that via the nurse and the health care professionals involved in that with the student. The key part of one or more school wide screenings is if the child does get the the thing cleared up, but there's obviously something still not being done at home, or there's an environmental thing. We need to notify the parent once again, and we need to keep them informed.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: The key part about what we did with this policy, as opposed to it being a full blown no net policy, is we're trying to enhance the education in the

[R9986-277] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: more school wide screenings is if the child does get the the thing cleared up, but there's obviously something still not being done at home, or there's an environmental thing. We need to notify the parent once again, and we need to keep them informed.
TEXT> The key part about what we did with this policy, as opposed to it being a full blown no net policy, is we're trying to enhance the education in the ability for the families to treat. If you choose not to treat your child,  we're not going to put the other 97% of the population at risk for an infestation due to the refusal, because based off the way we've worded this, the way we've crafted it, thought was put in in a way to help these parents that need further assistance in a most proactive manner.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Michelle, can I jump? Just jump in front of you for I know you had your hand up. The question was also raised by the citizen who would be supervising

[R9986-288] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Steve.
TEXT> I can actually address that. Because there was a point in time where I wasn't a very rich person, and  during that point in time when I was a not very rich person, I had children in desert with Miss Lewis, and they were routinely coming back with head lice from my ex-wife's house or her families. I do not know. But because I was at a low income bracket at that time to get the non-prescription, you can just make the phone call and they will write it. The key thing is, is that the you have to use the non-prescription before they prescribe the superior chemical. There's a there's a key process to go through it where you need to record the dates, the times of those treatments. That's for the high test prescription based stuff.
NEXT> Susan Mason: Even when. I requested it for the store brand, they said I had to have had tried it my own and used my own my two times before they would

[R9986-291] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Rebecca. Seconded' [1019] f | 2018-09-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: You had a bad guy there then that day.
TEXT> So I just want to let everybody know that there are supports out there. If parents are unable to treat their children, the nurses are very willing to work with parents. I know community members, are working together to try and find some solutions to help people who cannot afford head lice. Kids. I know there's a huge conversation in the community in general, and I think awareness is being raised and people are are really, moving forward and finding ways to help everybody with this, with this problem problem. And I wanted to say to we didn't talk about the I quickly mentioned the proactive strategies from the nurses, but we spent a great deal of time talking about lockers.  And Corey was going to look into some information on that. And I think that it's, it's important that,  that that information be shared in schools. And I also think that I'm jumping around a lot, but I just want to get it out before I forget because I'm exhausted. I also think it's important to mention that in the policy for anyone who hasn't read it, this is not for the high school  level, and it's not for the middle school that the monthly screenings are for elementary school.
NEXT> Susan Mason: Yes, I understand that wholeheartedly.

[R9986-303] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' by Horsky [115], [802]  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Susan Mason: Little scattered run. So the person just sits on and they put away in the locker when they're done.
TEXT> So there's lots of things to explore with that go beyond simply the policy in terms of  how do we train staff to recognize symptoms of, infestation? How do we  manage children's clothing and materials in classrooms, particularly at the younger levels? How do we structure our classrooms to not only maximize learning but  prevent the, spread of infestation and things of that nature? And so I think my understanding of how we left the policy subcommittee was that we were committed to researching and looking into those things, getting the information from the fire department around encroachment on building code, things like that, in terms of blockers and cubbies and how can we how can we address that and have that material available for our next budget discussion? Because, you know, adding lockers, for instance, when elementary school is not free. So what would that cost be? And how do we plan for this? So it goes beyond just a policy.
NEXT> Jason Benware: A little off topic.

[R9986-307] Susan Mason | Public commenter, Claremont resident (self-identified [29]) | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jason Benware: it's a fairly cheap for treating the hair. I knew the furniture and stuff there, but maybe we can put that information out there as well. Under five bucks at the Dollar Tree or any of the dollar stores, you can do an effective treatment.
TEXT> Another question I had that I haven't heard anything about yet is how are we going to know if that child is still going to be infected before they face? Who is going to be checking that out?
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I actually thought I answered that earlier. They will be checked those four days.

[R9986-332] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Rebecca. Seconded' [1019] f | 2018-09-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> I know that there was  mention of special ed services and kids with IEPs and 504 and such, and, we did discuss that because that's what I work in is special. And my concern was, children not being able to access information that they need and utilize tools that they're going to need to help them be successful in their classroom and their environments. So,  in  this policy, I don't know if you guys have had a chance to read it at all,  but it does say that those kiddos are exempt from that with a medical, you know, if you have an IP or exempt from this policy, if you have a 504 where you utilize those tools, you're exempt from this policy. So, just please take that back to your I forget who it was.
NEXT> Unidentified: But.

[R9986-341] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presiding; addressed as 'chairman of the | 2018-09-05
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yeah that would be fun.
TEXT> There are also other, students who might be being medicated who don't have an IEP or 504 as well. So the medical needs should stay.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think we should just expand on it to cover more.

[R9986-347] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Jason Benware: policy that exists or procedures that existed last year. And the only differences were, were changes that were proposed, changes in the handbook this year that we did not agree upon. Correct. So nothing has changed. We're simply asking for the procedures to be followed.
TEXT> Yeah. To to clarify, we had mentioned during the debate on correcting the handbook about the policy, and the policy clearly was literally a one liner that says consistent with the student handbook of each building. So with that said, we were forced into a position where we just basically mirrored exactly what was there. And during our debate with in the policy subcommittee is we wanted to clarify if study halls were acceptable places to use them. And based off reading the handbook in the cants cans, shouldn't  it did not clarify study halls as being an acceptable place. If you're in a study hall, you should be there to study, so therefore it should be considered as a classroom environment. Was the position that why this stayed that way without study halls being included? The key fact that led to that was, is that you weren't allowed to use it in the administrative offices during council, in meetings with other people. So it was to basically just reinforce what was in the policy handbook to address it, to make it crystal clear so that there's a policy that actually backs it and dictates it district wide. So we're not dealing with children who come out of the middle school that were allowed to do it because the handbook didn't get changed,  so on and so forth, or it got changed. Its to just make it a consistent strategy across the district.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: To be clear, there is no ban on.

[R9986-384] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: About the use, not the possession.
TEXT> Yeah.  You're allowed to keep your phone on you. The design behind this is to make sure that  we are not abusing the privilege of being while you  while you have the ability to use that cell phone we don't want to abuse during class time. Snapchat I heard about it today in a math class for my daughter, that two kids were talking about a Snapchat conversation that was literally happening at the same table as her, so it's still not being followed even though we've asked for it too. But at the end of the day, after teacher doesn't catch it, there's nothing that can be done. So this is just a this is to promote the responsible use. Because interestingly enough, I don't know if anybody knows this, but California has opened up centers for electronic addiction tablets, smartphones for students because they can't figure out how to function without them. Sadly, at my job, I'm required to have one, but I don't look at it unless I need to. And it's typically when I'm on the road going to a customer's house. But the rest of the time when I'm in my office, the next thing I have is email. That's it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Just to clarify the change that we made in the handbook, turning the one word from can to can was. In the section where it talks about in the classroom

[R9986-385] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School ('since I've been at Stevens as a princ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: have one, but I don't look at it unless I need to. And it's typically when I'm on the road going to a customer's house. But the rest of the time when I'm in my office, the next thing I have is email. That's it.
TEXT> Just to clarify the change that we made in the handbook, turning the one word from can to can  was. In the section where it talks about in the classroom with teacher permission. So that has drastically changed  how  cell phones have been used since I've been at Stevens as a principal, where we've given the teacher the ability to determine within their classroom whether students can use these phones for academic purposes. We change that one word. My recommendation was to say to put it in, to say that it follows district policy. But that was not what the vote was. It was to turn can to can't. In that one section, that one word has been translated into can't use it in the classroom. And that is a radical change  from the past four years at Stevens High. School.  Well past.
NEXT> Jason Benware: The, the, the procedures that were written the year before in the handbook. I think that that that whole thing about in the classroom. Teacher permission was added this year.

[R9986-401] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School ('since I've been at Stevens as a princ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Prescott Herzog: other things. Just today I had the contact, one of my fellow key club officers, and I wasn't able to until the very end of the day. And then I found out that she left so we couldn't have a meeting with the class officer.
TEXT> And because flex, we use flex in our configuration of our hours, our instructional hours, we consider that as instructional time.  So in lieu of more clarity around the policy, when we talk about not during class or instructional time, that includes our flex period. So that's how we've interpreted it. But students can use it during lunch and during transition.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Lunch can be lunch and passing time can be very fluid. Today, because I had to go and talk to Miss Berry about some agenda items that we had. I

[R9986-402] Prescott Herzog | Student representative, Stevens High School (self-identified 'Prescott | 2018-09-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: consider that as instructional time. So in lieu of more clarity around the policy, when we talk about not during class or instructional time, that includes our flex period. So that's how we've interpreted it. But students can use it during lunch and during transition.
TEXT> Lunch can be lunch and passing time can be very fluid. Today, because I had to go and talk to Miss Berry about some agenda items that we had. I had ten minutes for lunch, and that didn't even include the, the fire drill that we had today. So depending per student that could be, you know, very well, no access the entire day.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thanks for me.

[R9986-406] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Rebecca. Seconded' [1019] f | 2018-09-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: That's what they've been told. And that's what the teachers were very clearly told.
TEXT> The other thing you mentioned was teachers saying you need to put your cell phones in a bin. I'm not going to lie. The guys and I went back and forth about this policy a lot in our meeting because I agree with a little bit,  you know, I'm not fond of some of it.  I will always back to for even though my my decisions are I may be different in my thinking sometimes. But I would never advocate for students to be placing their cell phones in a bin. Other people may feel differently, but I would want my child to have their phone on them at all times.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Also, I might add, inside of certain classes you are punished if you do not have your phone in that bin.

[R9986-412] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School ('since I've been at Stevens as a princ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Cory LeClair: So I can give.
TEXT> You only the one experience that I had when I was observing an English teacher and he used Kahoot to do it, was within the first five minutes it was a reading comprehension quiz. Students had been asked to read a chapter or two the night before. So students. And it was very fluid. There was no everybody knew their thing. It was one student who sat pretty close to the teacher. He was the only student who didn't have  a phone. Everybody took out their phone. He very nonchalantly gave the paper copy to that one student. And my understanding, because I've asked these guys, how does it work? And they said, because they said, you cheat. Can you send somebody the answer? They said, no, you have 10s to respond to cheat on it or send somebody else. The answer is not possible. So you get 10s you got a bunch of questions about a boom but a bang. That student is given the time to write their responses out on the pen and paper coffee, and that's how that was dealt with in that one situation that I observed.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So now currently I'll be given paper correct to write on instead of using cell phones. Correct. So you're not singling anybody out that way.

[R9986-422] Prescott Herzog | Student representative, Stevens High School (self-identified 'Prescott | 2018-09-05
PREV> Mary Woodman: Okay. Second. Go ahead please.
TEXT> I'd also like to say maybe, at that next meeting when we add the student voice presents, maybe we could start a game of Kahoot with all of you guys so that you could  sort of understand it more. That could be on the agenda.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And that's protected. Josh, through the your servers and stuff that that access. I can't hear you. Sorry.

[R9986-424] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (Pierce: 'Josh, through yo | 2018-09-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And that's protected. Josh, through the your servers and stuff that that access. I can't hear you. Sorry.
TEXT> If the personal device is on our network, it can be filtered. But if they're using their own personal LTE network or cellular network, we can't filter personal devices. So it would be it would be if they were on our network, if they connected to our network, which I'd like us to, to be making it easier for students to do that. Then it would be filtered through our network.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So. It would be best to try to look into getting connected, getting them connected through the school as opposed to privately, because then it's open all over the place.

[R9986-491] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Steve'/'Stephen' [149],[ | 2018-09-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: So it's just around there.
TEXT> I'm kind of sitting there with Mike. And I also think that when you're dealing with an opioid lawsuit, it really has no bearing on the school district overall. You know, I know we have parents that are that are victims of the addiction, you know, and students that are victimized by that addiction as well. But at the end of the day, it really is not a place for a school district to be getting involved with common sense. It's a city issue because the city is absorbing a lot more of those costs between incarcerations, emergency services. The school is dealing with it to an extent, but I don't in a logical sense of looking at it. I don't think we really have a right to be a plaintiff.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And I just respond to that. And, and so much as, my understanding is looking at it through the lens of what's the impact on out of district placement class

[R9986-492] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Corey' by Horsky [115], [802]  | 2018-09-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: city is absorbing a lot more of those costs between incarcerations, emergency services. The school is dealing with it to an extent, but I don't in a logical sense of looking at it. I don't think we really have a right to be a plaintiff.
TEXT> And I just respond to  that.  And, and so much as, my understanding is looking at it through the lens of what's the impact on  out of district placement class as a result of students experiencing trauma as a result of opioid use. And that's where we would identify those softer costs. And when you look at $8 million for special education in a $32 million budget, some of that could potentially be tied back to,  trauma as a result  of result of opioid use and addiction. I don't know that that's the case, but that's just something to that's a trail to wander down to figure out if there's anything there. And then just to respond to Mike's, I did reach out to  legal counsel Matt Upton about this, because I  had a similar first reaction.  And his  his thought was the agreements. Fine. Although he doubts there will be significant damages for the district as compared to the city. To your point, the law firm that is actually trying these cases is a law firm out of New York, and they have two local firms. This one of the letter I sent you the engagement to represent is one of them. But the cases are being organized by a judge in Ohio, and the local firms are handling clients. So just to address the question.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of why drug prices are so high, so we've lost. And so I think they build in another class.

[R9986-704] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (roll-call 'Michelle Pierce. Yes' [409]; | 2018-09-05
PREV> Unidentified: I don't know if there's a I thought many Cardinals sports. You know.
TEXT> The mini Cardinals I thought were the preschool kids that we did the.
NEXT> Unidentified: Preschool.

[R94585-27] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> Special education. Without capable in-house services, we spend insane amounts on placements and he is 100% right. Amen to that. We need a renewed focus on two sides of the same coin. Reduce placements by hiring and keeping qualified special ed staff. Reducing placements will be a byproduct of qualified staff. We're unique in this district and we have a lot of students with special needs, but that shouldn't be seen as a burden and sending them out of district because of our own inability to create programs or keep staff, makes the public unfairly perceive them as a problem.
NEXT> Unidentified: We're just writing these now. Just yeah, that one.

[R94585-31] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: And you can share.
TEXT> Notes or whatever. But giving Lauren a voice, I guess. Okay.  On student wellness counseling, civil rights, which I've characterized different ways. Sorry. Every time,  we'll come up with a name. He didn't write anything. Facilities and maintenance. If bluff does not sell. Lauren would like to see it. Possibly least back on next year's ballot. He expects to get pushed back on that, but thinks bluff would be the best location for elementary learning in Claremont. Location, size, etc.. He is asking, has the Masonic Lodge sold? We haven't heard much. The middle school needs work and he's hoping to hear more about the painting project soon. The tech is due for some upkeep and before this giant deficit, there were conversations about the state maybe paying a big piece 75%. He thought of costs at the tech. He just writes. Please look into that. So tech renovation, middle school upkeep. And I've heard of a lot of capital needs at the middle school. And I'm looking.
NEXT> Unidentified: At you. Right. So tech renovation.

[R94585-71] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I'll read them. So we all saw what admin put up here. And so there's a sticky that says Academy and the trauma.
TEXT> I wrote that and the joke there is,  we're under what's called a due diligence review, a doctor  by the Department of Education relating to that program at Stevens High School, Tara Gear, who some of you may have met and some of you may not have heard of, is a special ed consultant who worked with the districts all through last year who was eager to be finished on June 30th, but who is remaining with us to help this year. She is wonderful and she is leading this effort. She's putting a plan in place with the Department of Education. We can  legally. You've heard contradictory things about the Academy. I think you've heard it doesn't require state approval. You're right, because it's not a special ed program. And then you've heard it's a critical special ed program that prevents us from sending kids out of district. Right. And it sounds like somebody's either lying to you or contradicting themselves. They don't know what they're talking about. The fact is that it serves kids, some of whom  have IEP and need the placement. For that reason, it has to be approved by the state. Others are of whom should be on what? Under regulation we call an alternative learning plan.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That is not a special ed program. That's for a kid who is going to get a 24 credit or whatever diploma and goes absolutely out of his mind sitting

[R94585-85] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: where we're going. So by law, direct supervision pairs need to be under the direct supervision of certified staff. And it can't be symbolic. It can't be indirect. It can't be intermittent and it can't be paperwork based. All of those occur in our district.
TEXT> The teachers are plausible for providing lesson plans, objectives, and I'm going off my instruments, materials, scripts or prompts when needed. The pair receives guidance on what to support, how to support it and when to fade. Support. The teacher must be in the same room, or close enough proximity to be able to observe and step in if necessary. Just for my own experience, I've had to step in. Okay, things are going off the rails and the pair needs to mirror the teacher language, strategies, expectations that we need to make sure that happens.  And just a couple quick other points. The number of students graduating from an IEP. I'd be interested in seeing that tracking.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's one of.

[R94585-87] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's one of.
TEXT> Those because just a machine and I use that term machine that applies to all education. Does the machine ensure students never graduate from that? Right, right. And and the number of students with a one v one is most likely out of whack. And I don't think many folks understand the difference between an accommodation and a modification. And and when those get confused, too often we are quick to put them on an IEP. And and it's just again, I think inexperience has led us to where we're at right now.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: One of the things I put up is training for school board of regarding special ed. I mean, I would be happy that you're talking about, and I mean, another

[R94585-89] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: One of the things I put up is training for school board of regarding special ed. I mean, I would be happy that you're talking about, and I mean, another thing I put up here is how to get out of how to end it.
TEXT> Yeah. So if my two kids are examples, my kids are both speech language. And, you know, the first couple of years, nothing. They had their own own language themselves. And I, I  only a child development major and I couldn't figure it out. So they graduated in third grade and.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So do right.

[R94585-101] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: If this feels too much like a conversation, it's hard to tell if we're going to get anywhere, right? I'll make sure we get somewhere, I can promise you that. So you don't need to worry about structure talk, please.
TEXT> Need to hire only certified Sped staff staff training on classroom management to reduce. I make sure that Sped students actually can access education versus being simply integrated like that has to be the goal.  I had n them accountability of evaluations. There's a dollar sign or that goal of reducing out of placement and number of IEPs training for boards regarding special education.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: We'd like one.

[R94585-105] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: Ed.
TEXT> Claremont has and I'm I'm getting the actual data. But right now we have four  children placed outside of the city on what are called episodes of treatment. Then there are  special ed placements not made by our IEP teams, but made by DHHS or DCF, either due to child protective actions, children removed from homes, or juvenile delinquency actions. In some cases these days, a child's disability might be that he likes to hurt people and I'm being fresh and I'm sorry, but it's that's how we treat delinquency these days. So teenagers who commit crimes and end up at DC are often released, and due to their prior behavior, DHHS and the courts then place them out of district and all of these. I know you're familiar with some of this. In all of these cases, the school district, the local district gets a bill for whatever that residential facility says is the cost of educational services. Our IEP teams are not involved, and there's no local involvement in establishing.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Control.

[R94585-107] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Candace Crawford: Control.
TEXT> No local control in that cost. And I'm going to stop. I'm sorry, but here's another thing to think about. And this goes to demographics. I agree fundamentally, like kids are kids and everybody has different things to deal with in every school system. I don't like excuses. I think it is also true that we're likely to have more DHHS, DHHS involvement in children's lives in Claremont than Ryan's Newcastle do.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Yeah.

[R94585-109] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: Yeah.
TEXT> So all this cost, let's say we have ten kids in the system placed out of district, and I think we do. I'm waiting for those numbers, but I think it's over ten. Even with special ed aid, cat aid, if our exposure is $70,000 each, that $700,000. How much does RHI have to spend on that kind of thing? Probably zero. Yeah. So it's it's a form of local tax. Listen to me. It's a form of local tax based on demographics. Right. I'm ready to fight this in the legislature the second you let me start. We'll get to it later. I can't wait. I can't wait. I think it's a great argument to make in Concord that these laws are. A regressive.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Regressive, regressive taxation.

[R94585-429] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> The classrooms were so clean last four years. They weren't that clean. And we were running through the school system. And I know some of the teachers that we went to see the trim, but even with that, the dress code was not enforced. Predominantly. The boys were sharing their home books because you've got to Georgia and the little stupid things. So there's  one set of rules for the girls and one set of  rules for the boys. The one thing that a number of the board members who went on the store saw, we saw one student with earbuds, a hoodie with his desk facing the rear. And he was and we were with the superintendent, the interim superintendent, the principal, and a really good teacher. And the board members are like, what is it? Is this this Alice in Wonderland? Why is this kid facing direction?
NEXT> Unidentified: There's a.

[R94585-432] Unidentified | Overlap/backchannel cluster: short interjections and sentence completi | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: but I'll try to be brief. So you get a teacher at the traditional head of the class reviewing homework conceivably. And you had people just doing their own thing and in the back of the room. And it's just, a waste of 45 minutes.
TEXT> So those. Kids so.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So for me, it would be fly on the wall, sit me in a classroom in the back, quiet, and just let me see what it plays out.

[R94585-448] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: You can't.
TEXT> So I think if we can kind of work with the teachers and the principals about. Because that sounds great, right? I went in, we made something blow up with the chemistry, you know, whatever it was that that would be cool. I there's a you made me think of a, there's a standup comedian who he says he used to be a special ed teacher. I don't know, and maybe some of you have seen this part of his routine is in his classroom. The students didn't get grades, they had goals. And one day somebody came into his room and said, that kid's sleeping. And he said his goal is to not throw his desk through the window.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And he's meeting his.

[R94585-451] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-07-29
PREV> Unidentified: Goal now.
TEXT> It's a joke, right? But the problem with walking through, you might see the kid who's one of the  sometimes biggest behavior problems in the school and not like the hat that he's wearing a hat. And the teachers are like, he's been really good today. We're having a great day. It's not an excuse. It's a it's a fact of their lives. So if we can find a way to communicate with them about that and make it safe, I'm I'm here to try to figure.
NEXT> Unidentified: It out.

[R94585-477] Don Lavalette | School Board member | 2026-07-29
PREV> Tim Broadrick: It's unfortunate.
TEXT> If you have something that you're going to hold students to, then you need to do that across the board. And if it's just a matter of striking that lying out and going about our business, then so be it. But I think that's that's the issue, right? You created this document that says business like work like attire and then whatever that means, right? But then.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: You well, that sounds like no high school I've ever seen.

[R94585-489] Heather Whitney | School Board member (read the chart-paper sheets, per draft minutes) | 2026-07-29
PREV> Don Lavalette: I.
TEXT> Have kids. This sounds are kids that came to my school with briefcases. Like, I had it like you did. Like.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: But you're really old.

