[R10942-331] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and if there's an outbreak, we have to we have to be ready to pivot back if we have to. We didn't know one wants to, but if we had to, you know, we would be ready and we want to build that capacity. Yes.
TEXT> I have a couple questions about how we ended up coming to this hybrid model and, you know. Oh, shit. Sorry, guys. I have a couple of questions about how we ended up getting to this model. And and before I, you know, raised these questions, I just want to tell everybody in the room and everybody in the audience that I had the privilege of working on two of the committees and being privy to seeing the work that was done by the administration and all those participating in the committees. And they were nothing but professional and diligent and focused and transparent, and everyone acted in in good faith and was direct as they possibly could be with everybody involved. So before I voice my criticism, I want to say, you know how proud I am of being a part of this and how pleased that  you are are essentially our leaders of this, of this district. That's I'm curious to just understand what percentage of gain in safety are we going with this model, because we know it's not a linear game, so we're not gaining 50% or 75% more safety by reducing the students load in in there's I mean, there's got to be a mechanism by which we're predicting how much safer this model is.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's it's not linear. We know that to be true because of the way the virus transmits. So I guess I'm struggling with the, you know, the cost benefit analysis

[R10942-346] Matt Upton | District attorney, Drummond Woodsum | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: You.
TEXT> Have certain, defenses that are available to you should somebody contract Covid in the schools and bring it home and transmit it to some  someone in the home? Of course. Should the  student have underlying health conditions that cause significant complications?  You do have some defenses. And one of the defenses is called discretionary function immunity. And what that defense, big, big it's got a big term to it. But what it really means is that if you are making high level decisions based on prevailing science, then you're immune from liability.  Now, I will say to to be in all fairness, it's going to be difficult for anybody to sue the district and prove where they actually contracted the disease. If there's any type of community transmission because it doesn't carry a location signature, but still your your real main  point of protection is this discretionary function, immunity, which requires you to really employ the best prevailing science. So what I can tell you is  the risk. I can't tell you the risk of infection among students.  I'm not a doctor, but what I can tell you is the risk of liability to the district increases  each time  you are doing something that's contrary to the recommended practices from from the prevailing medical professionals now. At what point are you are you absolutely liable?
NEXT> Matt Upton: Once again, the the person trying to sue the district would have to prove not only that they contracted the virus at the school, but that the reason they contracted

[R10942-351] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right.
TEXT> My question would be around a waiver. Is there any sort of legal waiver for students parents to sign if wants to return to school, sign a waiver  to hold? You know, I'm not sure if that would hold up or if I I've heard  people talking about other districts, maybe, you know, having kids sign a waiver or not. Kids, parents sign waivers. So I'm not sure if Matt has any. I can't hear him.
NEXT> Matt Upton: Would be valid. It's only valid to the person who signs it. So if another community member contract, I'm going to ask you to set it over.

[R10942-363] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I just would like to get. Yeah. So.
TEXT> Yeah, I. Mean, we're. We'll go. Through. Through this and I. Yeah. Same thing.  However we're going to do it. All right. So where's my. All right. So these are the different schools. Same same metrics same cohort. What we we're trying to show there. And then you can read through this. They have some of their specific instructional things in there. It's a nice document. These are an eighth grader schedule. We tried to model schedules of what. It would look like. Soon, just so people would get comfortable with it to wrap their heads around it. What a day would look like.  We actually  used some some schedules of students. We had volunteers. And you can you can see what it would look like for  the various grades. Those are middle school eighth grade schedules. And then in this one, what we're trying to show was a Monday Thursday cohort for family picking them up. So  if you had, you know, a high school, Bluff Middle School and Stevens, which we do, we have that all over the place a lot lot of sib  families. That's what it would look like. Okay. So we would line up. They would be in the same cohort in the A cohort. We would we would have that together. In a perfect world on the bus.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Here's what we're hoping for. Right. But you can't guarantee it. We would love it if we got those twelves. And then we had double cohorts all day long. Right.

[R10942-367] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Should we come back or do you want.
TEXT> So we're starting with other. Sorry. So to the to the question that I posed before is  what is our relative gain by going to the hybrid model. How can we prove that there's a gain a safety gain with a hybrid model? Considering the numbers that we have in our community personally, if we are, if we if we're going to strictly be data driven and if we're going to make our decisions based on, based on data and, and information that we're getting from the medical community. And I think we have to we have to commit to that. And that's a hard, hard thing to commit to,  to Rebecca's end, because there's a whole bunch of emotions involved and there's a whole bunch of feelings of responsibility involved. And heavy on the head weighs the crown. And I think that's part of what's driving, this abundance of, of caution is there's there's a tremendous amount of pressure on you folks, and I and I, and I get that 100%. But if we're going to try to really, really target how to mitigate the risk of infection in our schools, then we have to target the parents that have high risk professions. If you're getting a kid with a temperature when they get to the door, I mean, that's not it's not really  that's not really helping us any. Did the parents travel?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Have you gone away on vacation? Have you been with anybody who's traveled? I mean, those things are the things that we need to be focusing on. Everything else is

[R10942-373] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: They are your workforce. So in terms of the transient nature of our demographic and all of the things that we have to, we signed up. We love this community. There are so many other things to your point that that we have to equalize.
TEXT> Right? And so we're Spencer said about education, American public education. It's the great equalizer. Sky's the limit. I want these students back. We want to see them. We want to get that baseline data for as long as possible. There's also a school of thought. And and again, there's no data that proves this or refutes it. Just as your point. We could I can't pull this down. I don't have a metric right now. But if we close down again, that's as scared of me. If we lose staff, which everyone's going to lose staff or whatever, whether they retire, I don't know that we can get staff back fast enough. That's not just that's not just based on models, that's on Covid in general. And if they're near retirement like everywhere else. But if we pack the schools. Right. So if, if we're,  if we have, if, if our environment, whatever it is, is more dangerous in others, particularly if there's an we're very nervous about this as regional superintendents that wow. Yeah, I'm close to retirement. I'm out, I'm going to go work for Vlachs.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I hear they need people because people are lining up and not attending the schools. We want to keep the best environment we can so that we are going forward

[R10942-395] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So.
TEXT> What about. It's not really voluntary at Walmart and at Market Basket when we're talking about the community standard. Right. You have to have a mask. You have to social distance or you can't come in. How  do you reconcile that with the schools when we know we're going to blow past that? Right. So if we have 24 kids in a room, we're at 1 or 2ft.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Like if there's no kid infected in the room, it's a, it's a, it's a it's a non-issue.

[R10942-396] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have a mask. You have to social distance or you can't come in. How do you reconcile that with the schools when we know we're going to blow past that? Right. So if we have 24 kids in a room, we're at 1 or 2ft.
TEXT> Like if there's no kid infected in the room, it's a, it's a, it's a it's a non-issue.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I just don't have that confidence. I, I don't know.

[R10942-398] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I just don't have that confidence. I, I don't know.
TEXT> But I mean, the confidence, the confidence I get is that we just simply don't have the numbers. So we haven't had one child that's been Covid positive  in Newport in anywhere, anywhere.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Are they being tested?

[R10942-400] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Are they being tested?
TEXT> What's it? They have been either asymptomatic, nothing is driven. Every kid that has been tested has been negative.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: We haven't had school yet either.

[R10942-429] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also catches onsets of other spe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: We'll protect them.
TEXT> Either we. Are asking staff to become frontline workers. We're putting them in the same position that our nurses, our paramedics, our fire department or police. Department. They're going to be in the same room. They're going to be right in the front line. They're going to be doing testing. They're going to be, having to deal with potential infections online. And so we're asking them to do that. And so to have a full back, everybody's coming. But you've got to do temperature checks. You've got to clean your room. You've got to you've got to argue with kids over face masks and all of this stuff with, with with 20 to 25 kids coming back in  and I'm not I'll get to the bussing thing in a second. I think that I think we're just setting our staff up when we do that and we're going to it's to me unconscionable to ask them to do that with a full open. Then the if we go with a partial with a, with a taking the rolling the dice and hoping that we have enough kids that can get to school on their own or choose the remote option, that's not enough control for me. I'm not comfortable with that. I think we need to be in control of this, and that just simply does not give us enough of that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think that the we need to plan and we need hard numbers to plan. Not guessing. So the other thing I want to throw in is, is that the

[R10942-431] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: did. Had our alternative program here back, around 2010. I am familiar with that. And that's probably a better option than Vlachs. And again, I don't want people to think we're being insensitive to the parents. I read all the letters to, I get it.
TEXT> And but everybody agrees. I don't think anybody disagreed  that, safety is important.  I didn't I didn't have one. I don't know about any of you. I didn't read one letter  that that said, I this discounting or dismissing this current emergency we're in. Everyone acknowledged that most people that were for full reopen were lined up with what Jason just described where have let the luck of the draw go and, have kids. Either do remote or be in school. I'm not happy with remote. Not. Not unless they're in contact with their teachers. And I don't think that's going to happen, I just don't. So I think that's it for me.  And and again, if we go with a  either in or out that does ignore those who chose hybrid as their first option, because I think there are a fair number of people who said, I want hybrid as my first option and that they're aced out of that. If we either are in, you're either in or out, those people have no choice.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But but our option to to what Mike is, Mr. Dempster has been saying is that the goal is not to stay hybrid.

[R10942-436] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: back in school and the teachers, their preference is that the kids will be back in school. As Jason said. How did you phrase it? Because you phrased it. Well, would you would this be your first choice if you knew? What did you say?
TEXT> I said. Given the the situation as it is today, understanding the risks that are involved with that, would you choose to send your kids to school full time or have them do remote learning?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's a different question. So I think that that when we look at that survey and saying what the preference was, of course, but I don't want to go.

[R10942-456] James Ward | Public commenter by phone | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jeff Small: Yes. Go ahead.
TEXT> Hi. My name is James Ward. I wrote to all the members a couple of days ago, and I received responses from a few, and I appreciate the time to take to read my message. For those who maybe don't remember or did not read it, I'm honestly not affected by the hybrid plan like other families are. My daughter is in high school. I have some flexibility. I typically do not use bus system. I take her to and from school.  She can be left alone. My big concern was my neighbors, my neighbors, my coworkers, the people that I come in and interaction with in our community all the time who are not fortunate, like me, who have younger children, and they really are faced with the idea of, I'm going to not be able to work these days, and what is that going to do to my family?
NEXT> James Ward: I felt like I conveyed that pretty well in the email, but I heard an interesting comment earlier from, Frank, and it was that teachers are becoming frontline workers, and

[R10942-460] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jeff Small: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I'm going to this time I'm going. I've got a couple of letters. I know we received dozens of letters, but there were several individuals who had asked that they be, read or put in part of the in the minutes. So I'm going I'm going to honor I told them I would, so I'm going to honor that. The first is from Kip Ryan. He's Ward two, and, Kip has three children in the district, two boys at the middle school and a daughter who will be in third grade at bluff. I'm going to paraphrase, Kip, I hope I don't offend you by that, but your your bullets pretty much match. Recommendations from the CDC. You're talking about live streaming of lessons and masks required of adults. Three feet more social distancing, lower risk, athletic should continue. Teachers move classrooms instead of kids. Temperature monitoring of students and staff. Social distancing and mask required on busses. As an absolute last resort. Masks for kids. You do ask that schools open 100% to all families and students that prefer their children, replacing the physical building with teachers and staff.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And we heard that a lot that and again, we as a board discussed that tonight. And and again, you, you go into the, lack of an infection rate in

[R10942-461] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Temperature monitoring of students and staff. Social distancing and mask required on busses. As an absolute last resort. Masks for kids. You do ask that schools open 100% to all families and students that prefer their children, replacing the physical building with teachers and staff.
TEXT> And  we heard that a lot that and again, we as a board discussed that tonight.  And and again, you, you go into the, lack of an infection rate in Sullivan County as compared to places like Florida and New York. So again, this is going to I'm going to give this to Mrs. Woodman and it'll be part of the minutes. Mike Demers, wrote in and he is the father of two kids. One's headed to the eighth grade and one's going to be a junior at Stevens. And, Mike talks about the hardships of of running a business in this town  and, especially with Covid,  and, suggests that we are. Suffocating in a well of our own fear.  So we need to stop looking at the national picture and focus on what's going right here in our town and county. We've had very few cases. In fact, the problems in Manchester, Burlington, Nashua aren't bad either.  And again, he expresses the terrible experience he had with remote learning. And we've heard that that it was very, very stressful for people and a little humor that algebra two was a dark chapter in the recent past for my older son and I, and I can relate to that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: He is terrified by remote learning or hydrogen feels that students should be back in school. The last is from former board member Steve Ski, and he starts with some

[R10942-480] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that's not where we are. We have a we have a meeting tomorrow. That's not a negotiation meeting. It's a meeting where we confer and we talk about concern. They're very typical going across the country right now. But that but that's where we are.
TEXT> So I just wanted to speak a little bit about, teachers in the complexity of their jobs.  That asking them to be  front line workers to their I think that parents have gotten a pretty good idea teaching their 1 or 2 kids, what it's like to imagine having 20, 25 of of 25 kids.  You're also a social worker. You're also a nurse,  you're  a confidant, you're a guidance counselor.
NEXT> Unidentified: Will it prove this.

[R10942-483] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: card in gloves. Comparing that to a teacher becoming a front line worker. That that we're not even in the same universe. Comparing those two things, considering the complexity of what teachers do, and having been a teacher, I think I can speak to that.
TEXT> I don't think I was able to do with the complexities. I think it has to do with increased risk. So I guess my feeling is that is we're not really asking teachers to assume any more risk than other professions are that deal with the public. It's not in, quite frankly, one of the reasons why I think it's super important for kids to be in school full time is because I value teachers so much. I think what they do is so unbelievably important that, to me, they are the most essential of one of the most essential of workers. And unfortunately, nobody asked for this. And I'm sure they didn't feel nobody signed up to be an essential worker. It just kind of fell on everybody's lap and it's just falling in their laps to and it's and it's it's as crushing for anybody. I don't think anybody feels at whatever job you have, nobody feels any less at risk or any more at risk than an educator.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just wanted to say he made a comment about how when this happened, everybody kept going to work, and. Teachers are feeling it now because they didn't keep going

[R10942-496] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (participating by phone) | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jeff Small: Can hear you.
TEXT> Okay. I've got an awful echo. Echo? Listen, I've been listening to this, and, My concern is,  is, We're just. I noticed there were some numbers coming up in New Hampshire this last week. We  went from 300 odd number to over 400. Over. Last week. So here's what I'm thinking. We're coming off from a summer where, we don't know where the numbers are going to  stay flat or rise. They seem to be rising. And  my I would rather go in as a hybrid face and then slowly open up  to a full time. That's how I feel. I feel. And safety is my concern for both students, teachers, everyone,  because this will impact  everyone. So  that's how I feel. Frank and the rest of the board.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Clarification sake on. What Carolyn just said. If the numbers have gone up, they've gone up in southern New Hampshire. They haven't changed in southern County or in Claremont. Just

[R10942-501] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (by phone; ASR 'Principal Bailey', 'Pat | 2020-08-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: logistics of going back full time, we couldn't meet the requirements set to us by the governor and the CDC. So there's the rub, and I, I again, I want to just end by saying thank you to everybody because there's no right and wrong.
TEXT> And I know how much parents are suffering. Community is suffering. We want to get back to the schools. We want your kids back in the schools 100% of the time.  I want to wake up tomorrow and have that be our reality. You  just don't know how much. And and so that's the answer that we're seeking and we're looking for guidance in that. So thank you for your time.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I think Principal Bailey very, very fails to recognize that when we talk about a full reopening, it's not going to be a full reopening. There's it's already been shown

[R10942-502] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: schools 100% of the time. I want to wake up tomorrow and have that be our reality. You just don't know how much. And and so that's the answer that we're seeking and we're looking for guidance in that. So thank you for your time.
TEXT> I think Principal Bailey very, very fails to recognize that when we talk about a full reopening, it's not going to be a full reopening. There's it's already been shown even by the survey that we had, that there's going to be a certain percentage and it won't be low. That will not be sending their kids back to school. So when you're doing that math, and if we had more realistic data from a better survey, we probably would know this, that you'd probably be looking at 60%. And so we can't have it both ways. I mean, we talk about a full reopening. What you're talking about is 1800 kids. That's not what we're going to be looking at.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So that's like 7030 for most districts except ours.

[R10942-528] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> I feel on the same as everybody in this room. I am so completely torn over this. Like we've gone through a lot as a board. And this is probably the most challenging thing I've ever experienced. And where I get hung up is on staffing. I know that parents, and I feel strongly that parents should be able to decide what they want to do with their kids. I'm going to decide what I want to do with my kids. I don't think I should tell someone else what they should do it theirs. And I really  love the whole concept of parents being able to choose to send their kids back to school 100% of the time, or parents being able to choose, remote learning. But the amount of logistical things that goes into that very concept is what's completely stressing me out. And and I like the idea, you know, of  have at it, figure it out. But I don't even know how anybody would figure that out, really. If you understand the true ins and outs of what goes on and what needs to be decided in a school system, and the other thing that scares me, a side of the logistical piece in how that would be figured out, is if we don't have staff, we can't educate anyway.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So that makes me nervous. And I, and I am, worried about staff members and their, I have not met one person who doesn't want to go back into the

[R10942-533] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> I'm I'm  very much in favor of the choice. Option. I think my concern is how do you plan for a free for all like that? That's my biggest concern because yes, maybe 40% of the people said their first choice is remote. But how do you then factor in people that only want to send their kid 2 or 3 times a week? How do you factor in people that are going to go for it? There's a lot of moving pieces there in a situation that's already muddled with moving pieces. The reason that I, I'm at least currently favoring the hybrid model is we are taking a data driven approach towards a full reopening, with the goal being a full reopening. My concern and a free for all is you can't plan for that. We can't then say we're going to hear to the guidelines because we don't know how many people are going to be present on a day to day basis. So it it takes  some aspect of that control out of our way, which I don't think, at least scientifically speaking, is a great way to dive back into this because this is very much a test currently.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can I just ask you a question, Rob? So what what metrics would you say would I mean, when we're talking about data driven, what metrics would you say we

[R10942-568] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Oh that's fine.
TEXT> No, my kid. Is kidding. I'm just kidding.
NEXT> Unidentified: Jason.

[R10942-571] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Richard. That's okay.
TEXT> I kind of wanted to speak to Rebecca and Ralph's point about,  I guess, sending teachers back. And I have the utmost respect for teachers and their safety.  My sisters and art teacher. And unfortunately, she's in the middle of Houston, Texas right now. Which is a completely different mess than what we've got here. So. One way or another, if we go into hybrid or if we go with full, open with a remote option, the teachers are going to be asked to go back to work and ask to go back to the teaching kids. I mean, it doesn't matter if it's 100% or if it's 5050 or  unless it's 100% remote. We're still asking those teachers to go back into, I guess the, as some perceive it, a danger zone. I myself don't perceive it that way because the, the numbers and I would keep going back to the numbers in Claremont, but I just don't see it that way. And I'm coming from the standpoint, I'm not an anti-mask. I wear my mask when I go to, the store, I wear my basketball day at work, or 75% of my work day is wearing a mask.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I work in the facility that if I get Covid and pass this on to where I work, it will guarantee kill people. I work in a long term care

[R10942-574] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Not off.
TEXT> Not off, but you don't have kids in the building on Wednesday. Yeah, you might.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Know, but we're following the the staff is following those. The kids that are off for services. We don't they're there are some like PLC work groups and things like

[R10942-576] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: videos and things like that, where where you have a flip video created by the teacher and they're doing that. So that day is already prepped and that day is already have has expectations. And then they have to follow up with other things. Right.
TEXT> So my point was to the the concern about adding more staff, because you're 100% in school and with the option of remote learning, you're still going to have to cover that remote learning in the hybrid model, right? If we go with a hybrid model, yeah, you're going to have some kids that choose 100% remote learning. They're not going to come to school  at all. So you still need coverage for that remote learning.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Well, what we're trying to match there, and that's where we have the capacity with the other softwares and the other outside vendors, as well as what we anticipate. What

[R10942-577] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: that remote learning in the hybrid model, right? If we go with a hybrid model, yeah, you're going to have some kids that choose 100% remote learning. They're not going to come to school at all. So you still need coverage for that remote learning.
TEXT> Well, what we're trying to match there, and that's where we have the capacity with the other softwares and the other outside vendors, as well as what we anticipate. What area superintendents have found is a 2,030% pretty solid in the contiguous areas around here, both staff and students. So 15 to 30 in that range, so percent. So that that's what we're kind of gauging that. But we don't.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I guess my question is Richard said that if you go full back to school with the remote option, you're going to need to hire more health. If you

[R10942-581] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, one more question.
TEXT> Yeah. It's just on this whole, on this whole  the remote part of it. I mean, if it's  good enough for using as a backup option for for the  hybrid model, then why why wouldn't it also be good enough to use as the model for our full remote? If we did what I proposed?  And I'm going to suggest if it's a support model, if we're using our teachers to support and not the  full time teacher for that model, then you can certainly get away with using one teacher for considerably more kids. That being said, most of the elementary teachers, if you're certified at one level, you can keep several grades up. Correct?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I'm not as worried about elementary as I am. The upper grades and the specificity.

[R10974-29] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: The second.
TEXT> And the next, the next donation. I have Courtney Porter, who does a great job getting our back to school. Fair organized and things like that. She got another great donation of $3,000 from the National Field Reps Incorporated. And for those donations for students, and they're going to get those. Obviously, we're not doing a congregation event, but they're going to have those are going to be waiting for them in the classrooms  tomorrow. So we or shortly, I don't know that they're completed yet. I don't want to say that, but they will be coming their way. So that was the three.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thousand move that we accept the donation of $3,000 from national field representatives with a heartfelt thank you all.

[R10974-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to follow up throughout the year as well in smaller groups. This is the inside. You can see I try to just grab some things that were visible today. Some things weren't. I particularly wanted to show some of the signage when people drop off.
TEXT> So when they get dropped off, the students in the hybrids  beginning tomorrow at the middle school, they are going to be sorted. It was raining today, but there's going to be signage for when they come in the front doors  that I, it's inside. It's not in this. You can see the hand sanitizer. The out in front of a bathroom, a typical bathroom. We have sanitizing in all the hallways. Those are the motion ones as well. This is the the after photo of those deaths and those workers. It looked like sin is workshop in there. To be honest, I can't believe they pulled it off. All right. But that's that's about 12 deaths. I believe that's a whole room. You can see that they've already labeled the students there for tomorrow. With assigned seats so that people stay in the same seat. So that we know should anything, we can retrace all those happy thoughts. All right. This is, Doug Fisher. Okay. In the upper left, that's Brant Cane, our one of our curriculum folks presenting  and the remote learning playbook. This is Jeff and Burns setting up for that. This is a portion of the PD that we had today.
NEXT> Unidentified: Learning the promise of.

[R10974-83] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: it's a really great way for our community to support each other as well as as our staff to be supporting. And a lot of and most of our staff members are also, on this too. So they're able to to help out when needed.
TEXT> All right. So  again, another example, parents helping parents and also the team from the SA. This is a nurse's station again in order to meet. And I can't say it enough how many masters we've had to serve over the past few months with CDC guidance and New Hampshire Department of Health guidance, and then obviously knowing the numbers and things like that. So this is the nurses. I don't I think you can see if you can make out the plexiglass around.  A lot of,  you know, see a lot of this. You see it in a lot of other common spaces as well in the workplace. We also have an isolation room intended. So the conference room has become an isolation room. Students cannot move freely throughout the halls. They have to be isolated to come to the nurse. And if you are familiar with Stephen's, there's actually a side door to the guidance conference room. There's a split blind in between that in case we have more than one student in at a time. All these, you know, you have to plan a plan for the worst and hope for the best.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But we we have all of these stations ready to go. 300 temperature thermometers. We have paraprofessionals helping us. Riding the busses with us in the morning to make sure

[R10974-84] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a side door to the guidance conference room. There's a split blind in between that in case we have more than one student in at a time. All these, you know, you have to plan a plan for the worst and hope for the best.
TEXT> But we we have all of these stations ready to go. 300 temperature thermometers. We have paraprofessionals helping us. Riding the busses with us in the morning to make sure that kids are temp and symptom free to get on on the bus to come in. We have  lines in assistance outside at the different entries to the building, and I'll show you a few more slides of that. We encourage parents as as per we they have to attend.  The bus stop or the bus loop for up to from K to five. They have to be present in case the child tests positive so that they can take the child. Six through 12. They don't have to be present. But if the child is symptomatic, they won't be allowed entry into the building or into the bus. Okay. As as we have talked about before,  and again, no one likes this. We're hoping the numbers stay low. And we're hoping we don't have any events like that, that we'll have to do that. But obviously we're prepared as we have to be for state guidance.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And we did put on the website under the transportation link on the department's transportation. There is. And you go to Claremont Transportation. There is a link on there that

[R10974-85] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have talked about before, and again, no one likes this. We're hoping the numbers stay low. And we're hoping we don't have any events like that, that we'll have to do that. But obviously we're prepared as we have to be for state guidance.
TEXT> And we did put on the website under the transportation link on the department's transportation. There is. And you go to Claremont Transportation. There is a link on there that brings you to the  busses, and it tells you  what time your bus will be going at. In power school, we put in a piece and we and one of the things that we're doing is a lot of our parents are using the app, and the district does not, recommend using the app because you don't see everything. It's good for checking grades, but it's not good for getting more in depth than what's going on. A lot of people can't see the cohorts that their kids are in using the app. They can't see what bus they're on using the app. So we suggest that they go into onto the web page and go under power school and get in that way, and that way they can see everything. So if someone goes into  into power school to be able to see the cohort and if their child is assigned a bus,  they have a bus number and that's the bus their child will take,  and then they just follow it through to the whatever bus number and it says what time it is. Anyone that is not signed up for a bus will not be allowed to get on a bus tomorrow, because we have so many kids that can be on the bus in the seat.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Then we have the seats the way they arranged. So we I did send something out to parents saying if you're not, you know, and we posted it. If you

[R10974-86] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: the whatever bus number and it says what time it is. Anyone that is not signed up for a bus will not be allowed to get on a bus tomorrow, because we have so many kids that can be on the bus in the seat.
TEXT> Then we have the seats the way they arranged. So we I  did send something out to parents saying if you're not, you know, and we posted it. If you haven't signed up for a boss, then tomorrow your kids cannot get on a bus if they if they're there. So we have to just be cautious of that. And we know that there's probably going to be a lot of parents calling in. Up till I walked out the door here I was still uploading busses and on the phone with Pam about putting busses in. So  we still have that running.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Sure.

[R10974-88] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: Sure.
TEXT> Exactly how many students require bussing or would not be able to get rides other than transportation provided by the district? Well.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I don't have an exact number for you right now. I can I can have the numbers pulled to see because it was it's all day. It's been fluctuating and

[R10974-89] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Exactly how many students require bussing or would not be able to get rides other than transportation provided by the district? Well.
TEXT> I don't have an exact number for you right now. I can I can have the numbers pulled to see because it was it's all day. It's been fluctuating and changing. I've had kids change and not take a bus, and then all of a sudden I've had family members call and say, there's six of us. And so they've had to rearrange the routes. That's why it's taken a little bit of time for them to get the the busses, because we've had to rearrange the route a few times, and then we had to take a, take a bus driver and have them actually do an overflow run. So we're trying to make sure that we maintain social distancing and not having a bunch of kids sitting on the bus together, but I can get that to you. I can get that to you in the morning. If you would like to know exactly how many kids are are taking the bus at this time,  that I can do it by busses as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right. So this is, this naht. Okay. I tried to put in their face mask for that. For that you can see a lot of the, a lot of

[R10974-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: bus together, but I can get that to you. I can get that to you in the morning. If you would like to know exactly how many kids are are taking the bus at this time, that I can do it by busses as well.
TEXT> All right. So this is,  this naht. Okay. I tried to put in their face mask for that. For that you can see  a lot of the, a lot of the spacing, the visuals with the Q, the students at different grade levels, a lot of the new deaths. Lower left hand corner you can see the the dividers, the final. These ones just came in today again and we were five weeks and that supply chain and we we just got the we still have our waiting few. We're ready to go for tomorrow, but we're still waiting for the orders to come in. And that was something that we heard  early and often all summer that you couldn't rely on the supply chain. So we're fortunate that our CARES money came in and we were able to do that. Really. This is a shot from earlier today at Stevens. Okay. Staff going through this is the event interest entrance. You can see  that you have to have you have to have masks. They were going over rules and checks and things like that. No one will even get this far.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There's a there's tents outside right now. That that people will be greeted at. No one is getting into a building without a temperature and symptom check. Just like a

[R10974-93] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: other types of offerings. Odyssey where but most of them follow the Google Classroom, just like the kids who are in the hybrid. But they have to do that remotely with some assistance from the teacher in the paraprofessional are pushing out information to them.
TEXT> So that's that's what we have the most remarkable stat that we've seen in recent years. Okay, so last year at this time, we had six students requesting, to be homeschooled. This time we just from today from from Melissa, we had 63. So for the entire year last year at the close of the year, we had 45 homeschooling situations that were new. We already have 63 to open, and obviously that's a direct sign of of what's going on with Covid. All right. So,  the matrix all right. In the decision making matrix we talked to. Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I just want to stop you. Are there any questions on what we've seen? We just heard I have one I'm wondering about the balancing in the schools. And I

[R10974-96] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: To it.
TEXT> Okay? I don't want people to think that this is some kind of an end run  on, school consolidation. But what I'm wondering is, do we have an abundance of resources at one school and a shortage of resources at another school that could be solved by students going to different schools other than their neighborhoods?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: School? Sure. That's a great question. We did we did think about that initially. But I think what happened in Donna may be closer to this. But what what actually

[R10974-98] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: kind of a I think it will really bear fruit as we go. There really wasn't any lopsided ness in terms of the rooms that you could use and the staff and the expectations. We did have a couple shifts, grade level within buildings, one.
TEXT> Fifth grade, I think fifth grade for our remote in one of our buildings. We only had a couple of fifth grade students that wanted to do remote, and so we shifted them to another school for remote. But that was about it.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's the, what about the blend of students, for instance, I know that prior to this, when we separated kids into classrooms, it seemed as though a lot of thought

[R10974-99] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: Fifth grade, I think fifth grade for our remote in one of our buildings. We only had a couple of fifth grade students that wanted to do remote, and so we shifted them to another school for remote. But that was about it.
TEXT> That's the, what about the blend of students, for instance, I know that prior to this, when we separated kids into classrooms, it seemed as though a lot of thought was put into what you had for a blend of kids there, because is obviously very differing levels of need. Throughout the day. So splitting it up the way it was, and I know that it was a challenge to begin with, how did it work so that you could get a decent blend so you didn't get one class that had a lot of kids with needs in one class that had very few, or, you know what I mean? Did that work out okay?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Well, one of the things that we were very, very no, one of the things we were very, very fortunate about is that, well, what we did at first is

[R10974-111] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes.
TEXT> Sorry. Just one more question about the special ed track. Are those considered in-house students? Are they counted in our general population numbers?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[R10974-115] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> And and remember, most of this these aren't these aren't set tracks like you would see in the these were these were cohorts made primarily for, for bussing. Okay. And transportation. So that like special ed every every student in that was  and I want to say that again because in a lot of calls that we answered from, from folks about why do we have to go hybrid in this and that, we we had to go we we we you we had to follow CDC in New Hampshire state guidance for how many students we could put on a bus we couldn't like in past years, have 60 or 70 students on a bus. So that was one of the guiding decisions in  that. And that's why it took so long.  And another lesson learned for us is that we need to get out in front of our data gathering in our in, in really, this is going to be a, a lot of outreach that we're going to do with our social workers and building our networks and our communications  tighter with parents.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We know that we have a lot of transients in our community, and it may be a challenge to do that, but we know we have to get on this

[R10974-122] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: that's a barrier to returning to, full end time school, then we may need to consider, how we feel about providing bussing to every student if it's going to be a barrier to having all students return to school who choose to return to school.
TEXT> I think I think that there was a on the survey. That there was a question, I believe that sort of led to the, response that about 25% would have a real hardship getting their students to  school without a bus. I  seem to recall that on the survey. Jason.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Yeah, it was a question about how many would use bussing and how many could do a different option, but I'm not necessarily sure there was any real. If it

[R10974-124] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: so there's a big difference there when you're talking about that. I mean, you know, there's a lot of things that are inconvenient for me, but if I had to do them, I could do them. So I think that's a better question to ask.
TEXT> I agree, and also was a moment in time and it wasn't a full sample. And if we had more lead time on that, I  think we could get that. I do think, at least anecdotally, what we've heard from folks and what we have seen with with many particularly at risk kids, is it is hard for a lot of a lot of parents to a lot of families don't have transportation. A lot of families are on the outskirts. Many are. There's a centrality to Claremont, particularly downtown region, that that that may go in our favor.  But we have heard on folks, but we don't have the hard numbers for that. And we can do the outreach for that. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Okay. The matrix.

[R10974-127] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a subcommittee and maybe have other couple board members, a couple of community members of called us who have an interest in that, so that we have kind of a decision on the matrix so that so that we, we hear from people about that.
TEXT> So obviously, there's a caveat at the beginning of it that that executive orders from the CDC and the government, Trump, supersede everything that we do for our local planning, because we have we have to do that. But I do think it's a fair one. This this is one. This one was most recently adopted by, by Henniker. Okay. I saw you 24 gave us this one.  And it shows kind of the rates per the rate of infection for 100,000. And if there's one case that's the green. I think if you're you're in the hybrid and they call the yellow, it's starting to spread. If you get past one case okay. And there's another metric. And I'll show you the maps that correlate with this with the links as well. But I do think it would be good to to hear from people in the community, maybe get someone in the health field. Not I know that we have folks so so particularly for board members and things like that, but also some community members.  I had a bunch of conversations where people called me and I called them back, and the impacts and some of the points about having to put your kid in in Nima and things like that and, and all the, it may be a false sense of security that we're doing this when the other containment and a very good perspectives in our last meeting as well from board members.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I think that's something I know I'm not a you know, I have a lot of science classes, but I'm no scientists. And I think it would be great

[R10974-165] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: two foot guidance to have everyone in all at once, that type of thing. I mean, I think in, in if that's what you're going for, right? You want everyone back at least four days every day in person. Right. I don't know, we haven't.
TEXT> Let me I haven't really spoken. So, I, I have the benefit of being retired. So I haven't been starting up a school this fall, thank God. So I've been looking at a lot of different models. Heather and I have communicated  on some different models that I've found. And when I saw the guidance and came from New Hampshire, it seemed to encapsulate a model that I liked really well, that was from Minnesota, that they're they're the Minnesota model that they're, governor had put out actually quite a while ago. That being said, I personally will will only support a, a phased in approach. And just as if we were to go back out, it would be a phased out approach. And what I mean by that, and this is this is what I'm seeing out there, is that the the first group back and the last group out are the little kids, the first group out and the last group back are the big kids. And so I'm going to say it right now, if we if we're talking about October for high school coming, I will not support that. That's a that's a hard no elementary kids. Yeah. I don't I don't think there's a reason why not. We have to look at the numbers. We have to look at the bussing issues and things and really test people's the community's commitment to to that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is this what you really want? Then you're going to have to step up and and get the kids to school. So one of the other things that's in this

[R10974-175] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: it's got a basically a, a matrix. So you've got minimal to moderate to substantial, numbers. And then you also have level of school impact going down. So you have low medium and high. And based upon how those meet up it's what they recommend.
TEXT> Any numbers you put in for us right now recommends in-person learning. So,  when you guys get home, I'm sure you're going to look at this stuff. But I think this is and I agree with everybody who's spoken thus far. I think this is an excellent model, and I would be fully in support of what Frank said to in pushing for the, at the very least, the elementary kids to get back before November. Assuming that these numbers stay the way they are, which I'm confident they are, and I can guess that.  So I just wanted to point that out, because I really think that one case or less per 100,000 people is minuscule at best, that that would under this matrix be  in person and not a remote type thing or a hybrid type thing. So, that's all I want to say.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just been reminded by Jeff that, if anybody that's listening. Would like to chime in at this point, either over the phone or Carolyn or Rob.

[R10974-182] Amanda Watson | Public commenter by phone, Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes.
TEXT> Okay. Hi.  My name is Amanda Watson, and I'm a senior this year at Stevens. Holly, I heard that, Peter and live performances were banned. And as I learned this week, that was false. And, it was probably just because it was passed through some people. And what actually happened is theater was just never brought up in reopening discussions. Fall sports were  and I think band is included as well. And it was just really frustrating for us theater kids to hear that we weren't really a thought, and we kind of had to figure everything out for ourselves when it came down to it. And what I've heard from people is there just isn't really a spot for us to rehearse this year. We would usually rehearse in like the theater classroom and then slowly start to get used to the stage. That was when Larissa K,  the teacher and obviously like times are different now. We're in the global pandemic. The reason we don't have somewhere to rehearse is because, like, the school has to be emptied to be cleaned by 215.
NEXT> Amanda Watson: And, renting the opera house is just way out of our budget, and the theater is not really budgeted. And all the money we have comes from the shows we

[R10974-183] Amanda Watson | Public commenter by phone, Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2020-09-02
PREV> Amanda Watson: used to the stage. That was when Larissa K, the teacher and obviously like times are different now. We're in the global pandemic. The reason we don't have somewhere to rehearse is because, like, the school has to be emptied to be cleaned by 215.
TEXT> And, renting the opera house is just way out of our budget, and  the theater is not really budgeted. And all the money we have comes from the shows we do. And I don't really know what happens during the cleaning. I don't know if it's people cleaning or machines, but I just feel like it would be fair to delay the cleaning for an hour so we can rehearse or just stay out of the way of whatever is going on during the cleaning process by just like staying in the auditorium. And I think that's fair because, football and soccer were kind of provided with their practice spaces, while ours was kind of taken away in a sense. And theater is an outlet for so many students, including myself. And almost all of my closest friends were formed in theater. And for a lot of kids, theater is the only place that they feel safe. And even while we're doing something that makes us vulnerable. And this is also my last year of theater, and I don't really want to lose that because all of us have already lost a normal school year. And if we could just use the auditorium to rehearse, we could clean our space, just like we did during the summer show  at the Claremont Opera House.
NEXT> Amanda Watson: We wore masks every day, including when we were choreographing dance numbers, and it was hot, but we didn't care. We were doing what we love, so we wore the

[R10974-190] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Amanda Watson: how much it is. What I've heard from my theory teacher is that it's just not in our budget. It's, like, kind of expensive, I heard. I'm not. I'm not so sure how expensive it is. So. Yeah, that's all I know about the expenses.
TEXT> Yeah. She's one of the. She's a student. Teacher for the summer and the teacher from. Larissa Cahill. I think that the summer program. I don't know who. Not now. No, no.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: No, I didn't.

[R10974-196] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Amanda Watson: an option. And the second option was the Claremont Opera House. I remember a few years ago we did The Hobbit there. I don't know how expensive it was or what, but it's like a board member for the Rent, the repertory theater company, so.
TEXT> Amanda, this is Mr. Thomas. So did you have a conversation with the high school principal? Did you, you know, talk to administration about any of these possibilities yet or, what has been your course of action? Because it's it's when we met over the summer, we we did have representation from theater. We did have from from everyone. And you certainly are are not an afterthought that we we talked about any type of club or activity extensively for the five weeks over the summer, anything where kids could be out and active,  we're into as long as we could safely pull it off. So, I have have you taken your proposal to the high school administration yet?
NEXT> Amanda Watson: I didn't really know where to turn for it. Didn't really know who to talk to about it. All I know is that I'll lose this year. And if if

[R10974-203] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
TEXT> So so, yeah, I think the first step would be to email the principal. People are going to be in soon. Copy copy myself and we'll talk about it. So, Principal Barry was always open to having as many activities for for students as possible. We I know that when we, we spoke about some of the, we had people talking about creative one act plays right during the summer and ways to adjust. It did come up often. We also talked about types of performances or even or ways to get a workaround for for music kids too. So we're open to it. We just need to hear it first and then maybe we'll, we'll we'll see what we can do. We'll see. We can look into the opera house. They've been very, supportive of everything and interactive with the schools. So I think we should just, just get some emails going, talk directly to the folks who can make that happen. Which which is  which you are right now. But we first I'm hearing of it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just for one. Feeling like they were told that they cannot use the theater.

[R10974-206] Unidentified | Unidentified - short fragments from several voices | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: know and then look into the budget. And I would be more than happy to donate whatever to try and make that happen. But I would I would really hope it could happen at the school level. I feel terrible for her and all her.
TEXT> Student friends.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Who have the support of the.

[R10974-214] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (participating remotely) | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: This is something.
TEXT> I just want to thank Amanda for bringing this to our attention and our superintendents attention. It's really important, Amanda, that that you called in and spoke about this. All other student activities are are as important, for the complete adult when you finish high school. And I thank you for doing that. And I think it will be resolved.
NEXT> Amanda Watson: That would be so great.

[R10974-228] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are you talking K 12?
TEXT> Yeah. I don't see any reason why we can't. I don't see you. I don't understand the reasoning not to open the high school as well.  High schoolers are not more infectious. The little kids high schools are not more infectious than dolls. They're.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: They're actually. I think they are. From what I've read, that it's more prevalent with older, older kids, I believe. But I made.

[R10974-231] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: thing. I was going to review in two weeks from the opening date with a plan to return full on the 28th of September. That's a tall maybe. Like I said, mediumship for the moon, but I see no reason why we can't do that.
TEXT> Yeah, I can't,  I can't support that. I'd like to have the administrator. What I would like to see is have the administration have a chance to review the guidance  and then, come forward with, with the recommendation, have the administration come forward within two weeks  on a phased reopening? And I don't disagree with you, Mike, on somewhat of  a timetable around that time for elementary. My concern with high school is, they are a different beast than than elementary. There are complications with lunch. A lot of the older kids are doing sports where they're coming into contact with kids from other schools. That's a concern to me. They hire they are higher risk adjusted.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: They're schedule to to be in a cohort of sports for low risk areas, not the peloton, not with the Manchesters, not with the. Yeah.

[R10974-234] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Jason.
TEXT> So could we shoot for two weeks from open a plan in place and  shoot for the beginning of October for the elementary kids?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's where I'm at.

[R10974-275] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: runs, couple runs for the elementary school half. I don't share the time frame of that. Two runs in the morning, in the afternoon and no, no runs for the middle school and high school. So I, I don't know all the, all the so.
TEXT> One, one of the administrative team's first proposals where we talked and we just tried to be and again this was a moment in time. Right. So our our first proposal  was to go full remote, middle and high  and then take care of and then go full in in the remaining facilities to spread out the little kids so they could go full, particularly because of the impacts of early literacy and things like that. And also the, you know, just it's everything. It really is in the full run of a kid to graduation. Now, could we look at we can still look at that again. We can do that. Could we blow up the entire runs? I think there's there's a lot of information we have to get very quickly what I worry about most. And I  again, I don't want to shift. And I feel like we have we heard a lot of feedback from,  from community members about the impacts to the economy to their, to their families and things like that. We now, I it depends how rapidly we do this. If we shift that to a whole nother segment in whatever.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'm not saying we I just want to know the impacts of everything. And in that, frankly, and that we can do it and that we're not, putting ourselves out

[R10974-292] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Not everybody, all the.
TEXT> Hybrid students who are currently engaged in the hybrid would be coming back four days a week. The proposal which and that's my proposal. My proposal is elementary back and then a phased reentry of secondary coinciding probably around the end of the quarter, which is, I believe, early November. To take a look at.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Elementary would be going back October 1st.

[R10974-297] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (participating remotely) | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, October 2nd and then secondary would be approximately a month after that. So those are the two.
TEXT> All the information before we roll with another phasing in, I want to have I want to have that under my belt. I believe that like I said before, the elementary  could, probably roll in a lot faster than the high school. High school kids are more symptomatic in getting together and having outside parties and all of that, and that's just the way they are. So I would want that data, and I would like to give the administrative  administration the time to they know what our wishes are. So let them work on getting that. And I'd like to know from Mike as to when he could, can you present that in a couple of weeks from now or not? Not too soon.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can we can do an analysis, what we can present. I don't know what we'd have to survey to get information to do that. I can do it on

[R10974-303] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead. Is this is this Mr. Ward?
TEXT> Thank you very much. My name is James Ward. Mr. Benoit referenced me. A minute ago, and I appreciate that. First of all, I'd really like to commend that young lady, for, you know, speaking out and kind of trying to convey her thoughts and feelings and, and her emotions regarding the situation that we're all dealing with. And it's really hard for a young person to be able to step up and do that. And I applaud her. And I think we can all agree upon that, that that being said, I, there was a couple of things that I wanted to point out that I'll be honest, as a parent and a taxpayer really frustrated with and I spoke in the original vote meeting regarding this, and then I didn't respond to anyone or talk to anyone. I left it all alone until the proposed plan was coming out. Since that point, I sent out multiple emails to Mr. Tempesta and Mr. McGowan, as well as all of the school board members just asking for information, and I felt that they were very cordial. I felt that they were very reasonable. There was not any kind of. Animosity or anything. It was like, hey, I'm just looking for information to make sure that I can make this plan work for me and my child.
NEXT> James Ward: I got to be honest with you, I only heard from two members and no one else responded whatsoever to any of my any of my questions about, hey, here's

[R10974-304] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: that they were very cordial. I felt that they were very reasonable. There was not any kind of. Animosity or anything. It was like, hey, I'm just looking for information to make sure that I can make this plan work for me and my child.
TEXT> I got to be honest with you, I only heard from two members and no one else responded whatsoever to any of my any of my questions about, hey, here's my power school. Here's a screenshot of what my child got from power school. I don't know what they she's going. I don't have any information. I like some information. Nothing. A week later, I got information to which I wrote back and said, hey, I finally got information from the principal that says that she is in this cohort, but I don't know what that means. I would really appreciate a response from someone so I can plan accordingly to try to make the plan that you created work. Nothing. Silence. And I'm Mr.. Mr. Tempesta, I'll be honest with you. I appreciate that you saying that you're trying to call one two people and stuff. I haven't heard anything. And and and all I was asking for was information. And then when it comes to the study that came out that was mentioned earlier, it's kind of strange to me that you hadn't heard anything about this.
NEXT> James Ward: When I knew about it more than 12 hours ago, and I had read the thing. And then when this young lady who's a student who's a high school student

[R10974-305] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: people and stuff. I haven't heard anything. And and and all I was asking for was information. And then when it comes to the study that came out that was mentioned earlier, it's kind of strange to me that you hadn't heard anything about this.
TEXT> When I knew about it more than 12 hours ago, and I had read the thing. And then when this young lady who's a student who's a high school student says, hey, can we do this as an opportunity or can we create this in your responses? Well, have you written anyone or told anyone? It's not the student's responsibility. This is what we pay you guys for. How come you guys haven't thought of some of these scenarios or try to do some outreach? And I'm not saying you're not trying to do your job, but there there are parents and I can speak personally from this who have written out to you and not in anger and not in disruption and not being confrontational, just saying I need information so I can plan as a single parent on how I'm going to make this work and I can't get a response. And calling the offices of the school, which I mentioned in my emails, has been fruitless. It's frustrating. And and that's the hard part. I don't necessarily need to agree with your plan. But gosh, when I asked for information and no one of multiple people wants to even respond back to me.
NEXT> James Ward: It's really hard to stomach, as someone who is a single parent and has been a member of this community for a very long time and pays taxes, owns a

[R10974-308] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: you can't tell me that that. People who are trying to communicate with you and to make the best of the situation and stuff that you're being completely clear up front with, and I'm losing confidence in what my tax dollars are being spent on.
TEXT> When you can't respond emails, you can't answer phone calls, nor can you even be aware of studies that I knew about long before you, as an individual person who's still working and doing a job, raising a child, taking care of a household, doing everything that I need to do. And it's frustrating and I don't know what the answer is, and I'm not expecting you to have a clear, deliberate answer right now. But you can't deny any of the things I just said I have. I literally sent an email less than a week ago imploring no one answered my last email. All I ask is that you tell me what I need to do to make your plan work. I got radio silence and it's very, very, very frustrating. And if you can't understand that, I'm sorry. I guess we're not going to be on the same page. And I'm going to stop talking now because I don't want to take up too much of your time. I appreciate you guys listening to me. But we respond that this is an evolution. This is not a one time thing. Like I wrote in some grumpy email and didn't get a response. I've tried multiple times over the past few weeks, and not in a.
NEXT> James Ward: Way that I was saying that you were wrong and I was right, just asking for information and I got nothing. And it's so disappointing. I have to tell you

[R10974-309] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: you guys listening to me. But we respond that this is an evolution. This is not a one time thing. Like I wrote in some grumpy email and didn't get a response. I've tried multiple times over the past few weeks, and not in a.
TEXT> Way that I was saying that you were wrong and I was right, just asking for information and I got nothing. And it's so disappointing. I have to tell you that it's extremely frustrating and disappointing, particularly when I don't have anyone else to rely on. I am the sole provider of my house and the sole provider of my home. I have a child I have to take care of completely by myself, and that's not your problem. And I don't expect it to be your problem. But when I reach out to you and say, okay, if this is your plan, what do I need to do? And I get nothing back.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to.

[R10974-329] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, so.
TEXT> I did. I understand that you're not legally liable, but I would think at some point when someone is saying multiple times over. Hey, I don't have this information, I need them. We're less than a week away from my kids, supposed to start school. I need to know what the plan is. I don't have this information. I just need this information to make this plan work. And I hear nothing. I'm sorry. You can tell me legally that you're not binding to. It is still disappointing and frustrating that as someone who has to make the plans to make this work, you're going to show up to work when you show up to work, I've got to figure out whether I can show up to work or not, because I got to take my kid back and forth and pick which days that you guys decided she's going to be there and everything else, and that information is just lacking. That that's my biggest complaint, is  a lack of transparency. I'm not sitting here arguing with you that you should be able to go back to school in two weeks, full time or whatever. I'm saying that there is a there's a real severe lack of transparency. I'll give you a perfect example and you can hang up on me after this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Am I on?

[R10974-348] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: Jason. My initial.
TEXT> Proposal to do four days was simply to make it an easier transition from the plan that's already been put in place.  However, I am certainly not opposed to five days and I think it would be greatly appreciated by a lot of the people who live in our community. Also, I would wager that a lot of the people  who are working right now, or having a hard time working right now due to what we have in place, would find a way to get their kids to and from school without bus transportation if it meant they could work a five day workweek. So I'd be in support of that. Absolutely.
NEXT> Unidentified: The the document I have.

[R10974-365] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair's opening segments [0]-[54] in th | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: No. We can we can still maintain.
TEXT> And not have the students in a, in a classroom and have them to be six feet apart, because we've.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Already can't with 100%.

[R10974-367] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair's opening segments [0]-[54] in th | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Already can't with 100%.
TEXT> Even even if we were to take both cohorts and bring them together, we already have rooms that are full at where they are. So we're looking at bringing furniture back in. So I'm, I understand that that that the document of the day is that document. But what I'm concerned is I believe it's reckless to have a full discussion that took place before, get a document that happens to support what we're talking about here, and that becomes the document we use, because there are several considerations that have been taken in each one of our buildings, whether they be the youngest kids or our oldest students that talk about separation during food, during transportation, during the classroom, down and up and down, the up, up and down the hallways. So the thought that because this says it's okay and everything is fine, that we don't take the time to go through all of those other considerations in here personally and as a voter and as a taxpayer is reckless. We need to take the time to think through all of the components, which is why I'm shaking my head, Mike, when I hear this.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We had a full conversation, and now with a document we're trying to back our way out of that conversation. It needs the same kind of time. It seems the

[R10974-370] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: No.
TEXT> So even back weeks ago when we first discussed this, my opinion hasn't changed because of this document. This document kind of, I feel, backs up in my opinion, in my opinion, weeks ago was to open tomorrow,  in full. And I stand by that opinion. I don't have I lost my other point. Oh, the masking, we're masking. So if we're masking, the social distancing isn't as important. Because you're masking on the bus, you're masking in schools, you're requiring masks full time with mass breaks.  At this point, we're not even my understanding of what I've seen. We're not even allowing kids to remove their masks at their desk. And this is a specific mask break time. So, you know, masking in the school and at all times eliminate some of the need for the social distancing if we follow, you know, those guidelines.  So again, my opinion has not changed since weeks ago. And I absolutely appreciate that. I would have to say like a few questions. I didn't see I and I haven't fully read the document, so I'm not I'm basing a little bit on the document, but I my opinion is we were there  infection rates with our masking and other precautions that you guys have diligently put in place. I feel like tomorrow we could return and fold five days a week.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I guess I would say based on extensive research that I've done and I've done a lot, I'm a hard no on that. What was the vote? I think

[R10974-371] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'm basing a little bit on the document, but I my opinion is we were there infection rates with our masking and other precautions that you guys have diligently put in place. I feel like tomorrow we could return and fold five days a week.
TEXT> And I guess I would say based on extensive research that I've done and I've done a lot,  I'm a hard no on that. What was the vote? I think that I think we older kids need we need more data on the older kids before they come back.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just what I would like to add, as far as I recognize that you feel it's a reckless approach. But what I would like people to consider is, is this

[R10974-378] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Address what, Richard.
TEXT> About this document being the flavor of the week. Regardless of when it showed up, it's a legit document from a legitimate source. And if we want to talk about flavors of the week. I'm just curious. The Harvard Global Health Institute matrix that we used for this when it was  adopted,  that was the flavor of the week. Two of them, frankly. If you want to talk about what's reckless, I think reckless is going into and planning something with a preconceived notion of early what you want to start off with being hybrid and then working your way from there. Not asking the right questions in reckless to me is, is  that whether or not you meant to do it or not? You put a lot of people in this community in a bad position. I think that could be considered reckless as well. We're we're in a position right now based upon, in my opinion, and I've said this before, not asking the right questions when we surveyed. And so not having the proper information when we went into this to begin with, simple questions like, would you send your kid to school?
NEXT> Jason Benware: Or would you not send your kid to school without waiting things, without determining that the middle ground is the right ground? Because we waited a survey, those types of

[R10974-379] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: right now based upon, in my opinion, and I've said this before, not asking the right questions when we surveyed. And so not having the proper information when we went into this to begin with, simple questions like, would you send your kid to school?
TEXT> Or would you not send your kid to school without waiting things, without determining that the middle ground is the right ground? Because we waited a survey, those types of things. So it angers me just a little bit when it's described. We've been very consistent on our message. You can think it's reckless all you want. I believe that a lot of what's gone on already has been reckless, and our community feels that way to a lot of them. I just want to point that out there. So anything that we can do to get us back to where we really need to be based on the numbers and solid science, is where I think we need to go. That's all I wanted to say.
NEXT> Unidentified: I understand.

[R10974-426] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And everyone.
TEXT> Everyone the other is either a four day or a five day phased approach with young kids coming around October 1st and and then older kids coming at the end of first quarter.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So yeah, from our first is it Thursday okay.

[R10974-465] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Message by the same person?
TEXT> Here's and I will find I'm going to find it and I'm going to send it to, to the, the. And I'm meeting with him actually again tomorrow. So this will be great that I can have this conversation with him that he says six feet, even six feet  mass. It should be a mask in six feet for children. Even outside on the playground when kids are playing, they have to wear a mask.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Heather.

[R10974-468] Unidentified | Unidentified - clipped onsets of several speakers | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: then it reduces the likelihood that you're going to have mass compliance when appropriate. Does that make sense? So what's that? So it's I think on some level it's arbitrary, but it makes sense because there's other factors that are to contributing to that guideline.
TEXT> So I would say that a failure to comply by by students is a is huge.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: In election to go to remote.

[R10974-471] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: It is. Yes.
TEXT> So I was saying that I think that if  a student refuses to comply, they've just made the decision that their status would then be remote.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R10974-477] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: High School level.
TEXT> But they they're going through a training period first to teach kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R10974-488] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I've heard rolling around a lot is that there's a concern that windows cannot be open in classrooms. So can you just explain that to the public? I know that there's no fans anywhere in any district but the windows. Can you.
TEXT> Clarify that one to when that one. So what you can't do okay. Unless that that's changed in guidance as well. But what you're not supposed to do is circulate air within the room. So if you have one germy kid and you have fans blowing, or you have the window excessive air blowing in, or even the hallway door open blowing in that that can move germs around. So that's the rationale, what we have  done. And it's going to be a kind of a staple of what we do is when that's when someone is not in their room, okay, that they open and vent periodically. All the hallway doors, the adjoining doors are, are closed when the when the staff member or the students go out, that's going to be open to refresh the air. We're going to blow out those the rooms at the beginning of the day and at the end of the day as well. And we're going to try to make use of we have some wonderful outdoor classroom spaces, and we're going to try to maximize that. So that's that's probably how that got spun. And I think I answered that for a couple folks who acquired on that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And then another one. Well, just just to clarify, can windows be open in the classroom.

[R10974-490] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And then another one. Well, just just to clarify, can windows be open in the classroom.
TEXT> Windows can be open in the classroom, not. We have to be careful of how when students are in, fans can't be used to circulate air in the room. The windows can be opened up. Yes.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Like 6 to 8in? Yes. Is that. That's what I'm hearing in my district. 6 to 8in.

[R10974-504] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: Going out in one coming in. And so there's a there's a range of different, opinions on that one.
TEXT> Okay. I had one more question from someone to,  and this is around child care, which is a concern for everybody, including myself. I'm trying to figure it out, just like everybody else that's been emailing me. Really upset at me for my decision. So someone, messaged and they were wondering if there's budget and the money's in it. If there's money in the budget for families who are, needing to find daycare. And I told them that and that was a it was a legit question. They were really curious about that. And I said I wasn't sure, but I would ask. But I also  am wondering if we can put on the shore six page.  I know there's information about, the CARES act and how parents can apply for that while their kids are in school. And I think it applies to some people for small businesses, some it doesn't, but it would just might be nice to be able to share that information.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Facebook page.

[R10974-511] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Send it to me as well?
TEXT> Yeah, I can do that. And then,  just just to clarify about the no, no money in the budget for child care and such. I mean, I wish we could, but I'm sorry. We cannot.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. We're ready to move on.

[R10974-516] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: High school.
TEXT> So the administration at  Stevens High School would like for, What do you. So I consider the administration at the high school would like to see if they could  remove the 48 hours of community service. Because what they're finding is 50% of the seniors are not completing this, and they need that to receive their their high school diploma. So they kind of call it a mad rush at the end of the year where kids are trying to get all these hours in for the school year, for the in order to receive their diploma. And one of the big things that we define community service  as doing something for someone else when there's nothing in it for you. But yet kids cannot get their diplomas if they don't do it. So it's kind of defeating the purpose. But the high school still wants to promote  community service, and they still want it to continue to put those hours into their their school calendar. They want to still report it on their transcripts. They still want to give out rewards for students who exceed expectations,  and they want to look at it as more as  expanding for maybe job opportunities for children, for job shadowing and those types of things.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Oh.

[R10974-530] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> And and also and one of the things that I did notice from when I worked there is when they did the community service days, kids would take that day off. We had a lot of kids just not coming to school so they could give them the hours towards that, but kids would not come in. They would not come to school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm sorry. I'm sorry I cut you off.

[R10974-536] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: Know of a PTO at the high school level, I don't think it it. I don't know, I don't it didn't. At least when I was there we didn't have PTO meetings, but I'm I'm not sure.
TEXT> And I  shared Jason's opinion. I don't always like to admit that, but I did. I think rather than doing away with this, if we maybe check in with kids on a yearly basis, you know, it's getting toward your the end of your freshman year. How many?  You know, like Frank said, 12 hours every year. So it's, you know, you're getting near the end of your freshman year. How many hours do you have? Oh, you have none. Well, you better  scramble now to get you 12 hours  every year. So, I have a high schooler. And as Donna, those parents and friends have volunteered to babysit at meetings, and they've gotten hours  with, you know,  some guidance. And at home and at school, I think we  can get this done. It's not as I don't see it as being a problem.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And we appreciate your daughter doing that for us.

[R10974-540] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, of course I.
TEXT> I just see it as a life lesson in general. Like my kid is 15. His frontal lobe is not going to be developed for a long time. So his community service is a real nightmare for me. It was last year, but I think that's just part of parenting. But on the flip side of that, if he doesn't have it done, it's a life lesson for him, me, and it sucks. You're going to have to cram it in, you know what I mean? So I would not advocate for taking it away, if anything. You know, having a set number for each year,  I would I would do that. But I don't want to take community service away. Wondering if there's more to it than just what was in the email like. Is it a pain in the butt for tracking for school purposes, or.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I don't know, the kids fill out? Yeah. And then they bring it to the person. The person signs off on it, and then they bring it to the school

[R10974-542] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: I don't know, the kids fill out? Yeah. And then they bring it to the person. The person signs off on it, and then they bring it to the school and the school uploads it into the system.
TEXT> So and if kids aren't going on community service day, could we just not do that community service day? And then they'll have to figure it out.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Like, you know.

[R10974-546] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: What did you call it?
TEXT> Community experience versus community service. And I think a lot of kids in this community in particular, don't get to live outside the community or don't get to see, I mean, even my children, who I push pretty hard, they have no idea of what they really want to do in college because they don't know what it even looks like. They don't know what a job looks like, they don't know what it looks like to be an engineer or or any of those things, and just to broaden their, their broaden their mind view. So I would I would be more in support of community experience versus community service.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I just want to Carolyn has your hand up.

[R10974-592] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Is this page. Yes.
TEXT> 67 credits over the summer. And some students are still working on extensions. And that's 65 classes that will not have to be retaken. So we have a quick summary of this, that there were 67 credits recovered over the summer, and some students are still working on extensions. So the 65 classes that will not have to be retaken, that's progress, from previous years. So that that's something to be applauded, particularly in spite of of the situations out there. So I don't have anything more than that.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I think it was just more informational that they, you know, that I know you wanted to look at seeing what it kind of looked like over the last few

[R10992-26] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board member (Unity School Board Chair) | 2020-09-22
PREV> Michael Petrin: Maybe.
TEXT> Unity started in full time  on the 31st of August. So we've now been going, what, two and a half weeks. Things seem to be going well.  I don't I have not,  I have not heard any complaints. Students have spent the first two weeks getting used to  the new paradigm of wearing masks, most of the time in and out of the building  when they could wear masks, when they couldn't. The new lunch paradigm of eating in your classroom. How they can interact, how they can't. So that was mostly the first two weeks. Now I think they're moving into more full curriculum.  We are starting teacher negotiations, teacher contract negotiations. We had our first meeting on the 15th. They teachers presented their requests. We have a meeting to consider that and get back to them. Negotiations, of course, in unity are very different than they are in Claremont. So I don't anticipate any issues with a new contract  and we'll move forward with that. And the only other thing hitting us is we had opened with no sports.  But I believe that soccer will be starting shortly.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Shannon might be able to say more about that. Otherwise, we move into budget season coming up in the next month or two, and we're getting our budget committee together,

[R10993-65] Matt Upton | District attorney, Drummond Woodsum | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes.
TEXT> So these issues related to liability or issues that are being considered throughout the state as school districts consider various plans for reopening and there are significant protections for school districts from  from any liability associated with reopening schools.  The most significant protections are what are called discretionary function immunity, which gives school districts immunity from lawsuits  related to decisions which  involve a high degree of discretion. And you know how and when you open up schools obviously  involve consideration of questions that require a high degree of discretion. The important elements to ensuring that you maintain this immunity is to make sure that your decisions  are grounded in prevailing medical guidance.  So we want to be following, the medical guidance that's out there now. And I'm not talking about fringe guidance, but more of the prevailing medical guidance through credible peer reviewed studies. And as long as your your reopening plan does, in fact follow that guidance, you should preserve your discretionary function. Immunity. Now, beyond discretionary function immunity, there's always the issue of causation. That being, whether a student, staff member,  member of the public contracted Covid 19, whether they actually contracted it within the schools, and whether the reason they contracted it was, was caused by some decision that was made by the school district.
NEXT> Matt Upton: That's a very difficult thing to prove as as Covid is circulating throughout the community to to prove, in fact, that somebody, contracted the disease within the school itself and

[R10993-75] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: steeped in the latest medical guidance. And I'll go through the documents with you. And I used their documents to that. Have nice links in there. Everything is from Dartmouth. Everything is from the recommendations from the Department of New Hampshire, Department of Public Health.
TEXT> Everything is also from,  you know, the latest studies, the ones referenced by attorney Upton. So we'll go we'll go through those  when we started this, which is immediately after the meeting. That's why you'll see some numbers that have changed up and down with kids coming,  coming in. But we started right away. So looking at the distribution of students, we have about 400 students in cohorts A and B and 124 remote. I know that has gone up to remote. That has changed even since the meeting today with our principal Barry. So that has changed. And that's a theme that you're going to see a lot of the monitoring of, of  of the disease spread and alerts and things like that that's going up and down. We also have our typical transients that we have during the school year with students coming and going,  and also people deciding to to still, you know, go remote and things like that. Anyway, so that that adds to this.  At the middle school, we have about 315 in those cohorts, 83 in the remote cohort, Maple lab, 213 and then 57 remote  163 at Disney with 74 remote, and then 98 at bluff with 37 remote. And again, that's from 99.  All right. What we looked at closely, in consultation, particularly with with our colleagues in the district of Bo, where they're a little bit larger than us.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And they have they have gone back. We have used and highlighted this simply as a pivoting with a green status, which is the new normal, as they called it,

[R10993-85] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.
TEXT> Absolutely. And to get right down to it, we'll get in detail with pictures on the slides of the space on busses. This is something that we spoke about when we went to the original,  you know, the hybrid model as to what we, how we could spread it out and ensure that we had  students with mass three feet, you know, and we'll we'll go through all of that. All right.  We know that we're going to need more, and  we're going to need more temperature modules. And in dividers for lunch, that's, that's we have a some great solutions for that is some incredible staff members that will highlight, we need to restore our classroom furniture that we took out because we wanted to have  as as few surfaces in general in the room. So we took out we have most of our classrooms right now in every school building, only have 12 desks, and we have to bring some back in, and that will take a little bit of time. But we we think we can pull that off,  with up to 24 or 26 in some cases at the high school.  Maintenance  in we might need to get on overtime and things like that just to make the schedule within whatever that is.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Ten days. 12 days. We the a significant impact that we're going to have to do as well. We don't know the degree of it. Some of those big classes

[R10993-87] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: through the year anyway, as, as we had decided. And we also know that when we do the survey information, particularly the people who are hybrid now, we will we will ask them if they want to come back or they want to go remote.
TEXT> It's similar to the other survey right away and we will start tabulating that information. I believe we'll have that survey ready to go out to as soon as tomorrow, depending on, on, on the boats and things like that. So,  that's where we are on that slide I'm trying to get to. So we also had and I'm going to talk about some of the big obstacles that we had that might not seem like it, but, but in order to to have lunch. Okay. So in order to have lunch you can take a mask off. You need six feet or a divider space  where you  to eat. So that that's it sounds like it's, not a lot to pull off, but but it really is.  So we have we had some prototypes already built. We sat staff around at each  in each school we had teams work on this, you see custodians and teachers  in a show, you another slide in some of the other furniture apparatus that that is another room. This is the Dartmouth. I'll come back to that. I forgot there in this order.  This  Dartmouth-Hitchcock Children's Hospital,  all of these links that are on this are this are the foundations for the stats  in some of the graphics that are in the presentation.  If you if you look at this, I know that it is it's very current in the community.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is was a the foundation of this plan as well. All right. All of the rates of infection. Just go ahead. You'll look at this and you can

[R10993-89] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: entire state, which you have to really look at closely. Okay. In the next slide will show will show that with the graphic. So we'll go to the next slide. You're going to see actually Sullivan County versus those rates that it's much lower okay.
TEXT> And many many of the folks at home already know this. And and they have been talking about it. So those rates are low. But they are they are changing  for the better right now. And they, they go up and down. This is something that we have to track. It's a new day for schools.  All of our nurses,  attract this. We have many kids who have gone home sick, as they always do every single year during flu season and allergies. And we have to sort all those things out.  And I'll show you how we're monitoring that as well. These are, again, some of those other statistics and trends in just great links on this resource. And I urge everyone at home to look at some of these links and know that they're the foundation of how we're making these judges judgments. Nothing is arbitrary. In addition to that, this is our handy dandy, you know, looks like it like a tax preparation sheet or something. But this is this. This sheet is definitely a assistant superintendent. McGowan's a friend here, the administrative toolkit. And she's the point person for the district for all of communicating between the Department of Health and the state.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Every case that we have of a student go going home is monitored. And it really is quite an inefficient system that has been set up by the state. And

[R10993-91] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: home and you can see the variation of that and the change in the numbers. And one thing that's very interesting and it's not a mistake, it I want to stress that with the folks at home is it's really hard to know the percentage.
TEXT> All we really know is the percentage of negative tests that come back. And there's always about three quarters to, to 60% of tests that are out there all the time. When students are out for 10 or 10 days, when they're sent home and they get a test or staff members and things like that. So we're always monitoring this, the, the number that we all want to see and hope it remains. And we know some things are happening in other places as it's coming into schools here and there in New Hampshire. But we don't have any positive cases. Those zeros that you see right in there, we don't have any we haven't we haven't had any. And we can change the categories of those for kids who are sent home. And we had it for potential. You know, it's a tracking document for all illness, not necessarily Covid.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: If I can just make a point, you'll see if you look at desert, it says 23.

[R10993-96] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Donna Magoon: and that kids out for ten days on Tuesday, they're not reporting that kid again. That's right. It's a new kid. So if you see for that does not include that other kid. So it was five kids total sent home in those two days.
TEXT> Or any questions on on that data. We that that was requested also what's happening within the schools. And so far our nurses and administrators have have handled it as best could be kids. Kids get sick in schools all the time. They always have. And in it's just a little bit scary now checking it. But we have the safeguards in place to check everything. Yes. Jason.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Is there any data from last year in the year before,

[R10993-98] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: Is there any data from last year in the year before,
TEXT> In relation to how many kids were sent home sick at this time period last year? Yeah.  I would wager, hypothesizing that by catching kids coming through the door, regardless of if it's the flu or if it's a cold or if it's Covid, then by sending them home at the door that you're reducing the amount of kids you end up going home over the next several months because you're not spreading it around the schools. We'll see how that plays out. But that would be my suspicion, my expectation.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think there's going to be a lot of things to look at that will be positive about some of the things about this just screening in general and just

[R10993-112] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: but they but they, What? We fit them in 12 to 20 at the elementary, room as well. All right. This is a slide. And I just wanted to go there before because there's a lot of a lot of misinformation out there about busses.
TEXT> So basically these are from the earliest slides from the summer. I definitely couldn't pull off the shorts. Well, maybe today, but not a couple of days ago.  The the, if we have students on in every seat, we can get to 24. Okay.  It's truly not a three foot. It is only two feet. But when you're in direct in the back of the head. And you also mentioned in the first first meeting, Jason, two, with smaller children who aren't even above the, the,  the, the seat level, that's a that's a factor. Two siblings. You can have two siblings in the same seat from the same household, and then you would just stagger. And we try to keep people in the same seats for a couple of reasons. One's for familiarity and we know where they are. But we also have to kind of do that, and we do that with assigned seating anyway for contact tracing after if, if should there be an outbreak to trace it back when we get the calls  from the state board. So those are some of the, some of the impacts, that we're talking about.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: If you go to and this is our to do list, this is the same PowerPoint that we've been putting together as a team following kind of the challenge to

[R10993-114] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: park. We have a lot of work to do. We also have, literally half of our desks that get pulled out are in a storage facility in Washington Street that we have to get our guys to get them back and get them back in.
TEXT> So but but it could be done. The prototype, I said we had a lot of success with that today.  The bus, the bus routes are a challenge. And then I'll talk candidly about the challenge of that. The outer ring is still the outer ring, so it still takes,  in many cases up to an hour to get kids in some of the full routes all the way around to and back. So  we do have a few new bus applicants, and we do have, some money in the reserve to to buy busses. It takes a little bit of time for impact of that, but for right now we cannot we will need everything that we have pending for the, for everyone K through eight to get in with the anticipated, with people coming back to full so we wouldn't be able to offer that no high school bus. There will be some sports  impact as well. We don't know exactly what that is. I was talking with the ad about this  as well, because some of the early games, we're going to have to be flexible and reschedule when we when we scheduled before most of the teams that we set up our schedule with,  we targeted the Wednesdays with the break as everyone was.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Most, most everyone, but not everyone had similar schedules Wednesdays and Saturdays. I know that he is working on that already, and we'll look at some proposed solution, maybe a

[R10993-124] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: Right. Yeah. That that's your.
TEXT> I know, yeah, I know, add it to my placard. Yeah. So one of the things that I just want to make sure that everybody's aware of, and I'm sure you are, but I just want to make sure that if we go to four feet in our classrooms and we have one child that has Covid, that comes down with Covid, okay, every child within a six foot radius of that child is home for 14 days  automatically. Does it matter if they have a test or anything? They are considered to have contact tracing with that student and they will be home for 14 days. So if I take that one child in their classroom, that means everybody around them.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: For kids.

[R10993-125] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries a few in-room proc | 2020-09-23
PREV> Donna Magoon: days automatically. Does it matter if they have a test or anything? They are considered to have contact tracing with that student and they will be home for 14 days. So if I take that one child in their classroom, that means everybody around them.
TEXT> For kids.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Well, no, not not if we do four feet, it's going to go out more. All right. So you'll have all those kids going then if they go to the

[R10993-131] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Well, how.
TEXT> The how it works is you have to be ten minutes. So it's ten minutes throughout the day that they have to be within six feet of that child.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So.

[R10993-138] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Donna Magoon: not be. But I'm not saying that they wouldn't throughout the day. But we also have where people walk to. They walk six feet apart and they have spots to stand that are six feet apart. So we do have those things in the hallways.
TEXT> Might I suggest that the math on four feet and six feet is the same? Somebody four feet from me in the next kid in front of them is eight feet away. So they're not they're within outside of that six foot range. Okay. So somebody who's four feet from me right now or say six feet from me on all directions is the same amount of kids as if they're four feet away. Because once you go beyond four feet, the next group of kids are four feet away from that. That's eight feet. So four and six feet. You don't change anything. If you have a kid with Covid right now, you're going to affect the same amount of kids based on your spacing.  Well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I, I think I think Donna's point is that when you when we set the desks up at that, we know that there's that. In addition to that, everyone you

[R10993-139] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Jason Benware: next group of kids are four feet away from that. That's eight feet. So four and six feet. You don't change anything. If you have a kid with Covid right now, you're going to affect the same amount of kids based on your spacing. Well.
TEXT> I, I think I think Donna's point is that when you when we set the desks up at that, we know that there's that. In addition to that, everyone you intersect with for the total aggregate of the ten minutes throughout the day is pulled. I think our example is it just goes it just goes up exponentially. There are a few. There are more kids. It's not to say it's more in degree. Okay.  And I think the general point is and that's why we actually put the decision making matrix, it's just so, you know, because we've had some we've had challenges where people at home think that we're being arbitrary in capricious with this and that we have to follow these, those regs and the reporting, things like that. And, and believe me, we would much rather be doing our jobs in the typical way like everyone else, just like everyone else would rather be at work and not teaching there. You know, we all want that normalcy. We crave it. But but there are substantial,  things that we have to report. And I think if I remember that because I heard you on that call, Donna, it was the person from the Department of Health just talking about how how the concerns about pivoting back.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's not it's not that we can't do these things, but the management of it just just grows a little bit so that, that that's all. So and I

[R10993-145] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: you talk about. I know you are the guru. Trust me. So so I'm sorry. Sorry about that. Can you, can you comment on the difference for the folks at home between the ten days and the 14 days on it, just to reinforce that?
TEXT> So  what happens is somebody has a symptom. So if somebody has a runny nose, a cough or something like that, then they're sent home, whether it be a student or a staff, they're sent home. And the choice is either you come back, you have a negative test result, and you're not sick any longer, because we don't want kids to be sick or you're out for ten days. So that's the choice. So if a if somebody chooses not to take the test, it's an automatic ten days. The difference is the 14 days comes in effect is if you're in contact with somebody that has a confirmed case of Covid. So if I went to visit somebody and then they they came down that they had caught, they had caught Covid, then I would be out for a mandatory 14 days and they would ask me to take the test. But the test, whether it came back negative or positive, came back negative. I would still not be able to return to work. The only reason why they have you kind of take the test is because they need to see if I have it, because then they start contact tracing the people that I've been around. So that's what that that's what that's for.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And they have you wait because they'll look back. So if somebody is in contact on on Friday they go back 48 hours. So it would be whoever you're with

[R10993-155] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Oh, Rebecca. I'm sorry.
TEXT> Clarify something you just said. So we have two people, whether it be students or staff, out for 14 days because they've been in contact with someone who has Covid. Is that what you just said?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: You are correct.

[R10993-186] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: of a and they're not allowed to come back unless they're symptomatic. So whether the parents choose or not to get the the children tested does not change whether the children in school or kept safe. Well, here's here's the thing that I looked at.
TEXT> And, if a child is is the way it works is if a child has symptoms on Monday on say they have it on Wednesday, okay. They go back 48 hours from the date the kid has symptoms. So anyone that they have contact with on that Monday and Tuesday. Would would have would would be out for 14 days if that child ended up with Covid. So that student that is symptomatic could have Covid and could have already affected other kids. So I think but we don't know. We won't know because, well, that child didn't get tested, so we wouldn't be doing the contact tracing on those other kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But here's the distinction. The distinction is, is you have a child, a symptomatic student without risk factors and a symptomatic student with risk factors. So those will be treated

[R10993-203] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yes.
TEXT> So the other side of that coin is the hybrid model was never designed to be the model for the year.  The hybrid model is designed with the intention of making sure that the entry was safe enough. By the time that we inevitably reentered a full time scenario. So we're there now looking at the Chad statement that everyone's allowing in bolded states, we encourage school districts to advance toward full in-person classroom education with appropriate safety measures for most students when the local epidemiology is favorable. Great. Everybody's saying it's the right time to move back. We're in the green. I'm in agreement there, Mister patron, do you believe that we can meet the CDC recommended guidelines with a full reopening? Yes. I have a question for you. That's why your name's on my mind. But go ahead. Can we meet the required guidelines? Both from fire code, CDC guidelines, maintaining the distance in order to CDC?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can't. So and I want.

[R10993-207] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: this though, and when you're asking this, it is not without other impacts. So the anticipated impacts many of our teaching professionals and many of our parents and many of our other staff members have expressed that they they have been comfortable, they have reservations.
TEXT> When we spoke to staff, we put out a survey for them to get back to us as to how safe they felt. Many of them, many of them said that they did not want to come back at first, except for remote, and then they settled into the hybrid. And that is something that that could be impactful. It is, you know, we don't know exactly what that is yet. We have to wait to the decision to see that. But there could be some, some shifting of of of of staff. There could be some, some, some impacts for that.  And it's certainly in terms of there is a trade off to be completely transparent. We have the same concerns about particularly the early grades with, with literacy and things like that of not being back. We we all want that all every member of the administrative team and every teacher. And I would love to hear from, from from Prescott as, as the only student in the room. We have an amazing school district and people who are doing the right things, and we just want to keep kids in school for as long, long as possible.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But. But could could we do it? Technically, yes. Is it the safest way? I mean, that that's for the for the. We presented a plan as the ministry team.

[R10993-208] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: would love to hear from, from from Prescott as, as the only student in the room. We have an amazing school district and people who are doing the right things, and we just want to keep kids in school for as long, long as possible.
TEXT> But. But could could we do it? Technically, yes. Is it the safest way? I mean, that that's for the for the. We presented a plan as the ministry team. You know, it was the hybrid. It's tough to make that call. And I've talked to a bunch of other superintendents and to. This is like the perpetual snow day call, right? It's just never goes away. You don't.  It's the the. We don't know if it will ramp up or not. I do love the numbers are low and as many of the citizens do, it makes me feel great. But someone put to me very plainly the other day and I didn't have a great answer for them, but, and they asked me, do I think that the numbers are low because we are doing the right thing and because kids haven't been in school for a long time? And are is the comparison between the two sets going back from the shutdown to now to the reopen? Is there enough time between the two sets? We know those are two unequal sets we don't know yet. But I also know, and I've heard in stereo or from members of the community, family impacts, student impacts. I know the burden. This is so we're all in it. We're all in it together. So, it's a tough decision. No one feels. No one walks away from any decision saying, yeah, we nailed it. You know, as always, always considerations.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And if I can just add to that, Do I think we could we could do it. Yes. However, I don't think that we can do it for our, for

[R10993-218] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And I'm just wondering why when we think about reopening, we wouldn't be going off, the sizes of each classroom and the amount of students that would be coming back for each teacher, because it seems like it's not a one size fits all. Yeah.
TEXT> I, I can speak to that. So we did two things. We measured all the rooms to see exactly. You know, what we thought we could pull off and we're confident there. The other thing that I prefaced is we don't know the impact to staff. So there could be. So for example, the play we have at elementary school or where we would look is if we. Where we where we may have, remote teachers and we have other remote students come in that we might see a shift in class list for the remote students and things like that in other types of shifts. Same thing at the middle school and high school where we have very few. It's for those at home. We have approximately 15 or 16 dedicated staff who have their own class that happens to be online at the elementary school. Very different model than the middle and high school where those teachers actually teach through Google meets primarily, and we have other software that they use as well and other options such as V, but we have to see what we have available if there is a shift towards remote or if people are full back, we don't know in which direction we're going to have to shift.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But we may. We have to assess that and reassess again. That is something that we could use more time. Realistically we could. So we were asked what would what

[R10993-222] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: duty. They're they're doing hybrid. They're doing kids in person and they're doing, remote learning as well. And then, you know, trying to juggle the combination of both of those. What is the plan for that? Because I don't know, is that's going to be.
TEXT> So you you raise one of our more significant points there, which is particularly the secondary level grades six through 12. What are we doing with the full remote kids, the so-called C cohort. And we already in the schedule that we have now, we have a lot of the catch up time dedicated with them on on the Wednesdays when we're back full. We had a meeting today about how we might be able to proposals on on pivoting that and looking at that, but that is not completely fleshed out yet. So what we could pick up there through Odyssey, where what we might be able to pick up through, what we might be able to do there to offset the impacts from the teacher, who is also having now 20 people in front and maybe four kids remote and the we we know that there will be impacts to the remote on that. And what we don't know now is we don't have the set of teachers that we know that we can pull or reassign to do remote. We have to go through a process for that. So we know it's going to be tough to pull that off.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Let's assume that we vote in favor of.

[R10993-232] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Mary Woodman: And Rob.
TEXT> It also depends to it could be a classroom you know it could be a classroom. It could be a grade. It could be a building. It could you know. So it doesn't mean that just because one classroom has it that we have to shut the whole district down. So it all depends upon how we handle it. And that's what  that's what it boils down to, is how we handle each situation. So it depends upon, you know, every step that we make. So, you know, a lot of people I know, a lot of people are saying, well, kids, you know, they wear masks outside. Well, that's a, that's a, that's a recommendation. Because when kids are running around they get close to other people and they spit and they drool and, you know, on each other and, you know, especially the little ones, but that causes, you know, that that will help prevent some of it. So everything that we're putting in place is to prevent us from having to shut down, putting those barriers there for kids.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Yeah. I just wanted to touch because I think that it's been talked about a couple of times is about, I would be weary and focus on like the psychological

[R10993-233] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-09-23
PREV> Donna Magoon: on each other and, you know, especially the little ones, but that causes, you know, that that will help prevent some of it. So everything that we're putting in place is to prevent us from having to shut down, putting those barriers there for kids.
TEXT> Yeah. I just wanted to touch because I think that it's been talked about  a couple of times is about, I would be weary  and focus on like the psychological factors that come as well, especially for  the high school at the beginning of transitioning to remote, it was very tough. But students eventually, got used to it in some capacities. And now,  I mean, in my perspective, I certainly didn't want my senior year to be like this. But I think  a lot of students and staff and people that I've communicated with are finally getting used to this. And this is the new normal, I think taking this away, not even at the end of the quarter, but during the middle of  the quarter, would be really harmful when it comes to students and, and, and nerves and whatnot. And I really think if  I because I really want for us to go back to, to fully at some point that we should wait until the end of the quarter or the end of the semester. So that way there's some sort of new classes. Or with the middle school, they have their, individual unique classes, just so that there's some sort of ending in the beginning instead of reopening and completely transforming the system only for the likelihood of us going back at some capacity to remote.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Yeah.

[R10993-237] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Carolyn Towle: he says is very validating and finding, you know, the end of this transition to start a new transition. But, I'd like to know from the administration, when they see, that their plan could be implemented. What what is that target for you look like?
TEXT> So are you talking about. So to what we might need for time to feel better about this versus the fifth month, if that's what you mean. It would be great to have a couple more weeks. We what what we thought before two. Exactly what what Prescott's alluding to. It's more of a natural break at a quarter or semester for students in transition. I, we are highly sensitive to the impacts in the community. And we know it's a it's a it's a challenging decision for the board. But  to be completely honest, we we we worked our tails off with the 70 people over the summer to pull off the other model. And for those, those at home, we're not masochists by nature. Okay. So the amount of extra work it took to pull that off, we did that because we had a duty as we saw it, particularly in the time with all the unknowns, right, with all the procurement cycle and all what we could pull off and what we could manage in the state in, in the CDC were flip flopping.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It was we finally have some decent documents. We're already a few weeks into school. So so from a practical standpoint, it would be great to have at least a

[R10993-243] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (participating remotely; not presiding) | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Frank. Go ahead.
TEXT> Thank you. My other concern I was listening to yesterday was listening to Doug Scott, who's the governor of Vermont, talking about,  his his approach has been, of course, they have a different model than us. They actually have a they're getting giving the schools guidance on every step of the way rather than, than us. I had a conversation with a, I'm not sure if she was a parent or on, on email. And, I joked with her. She asked me how come sports were  being allowed, but not full time classes, and I laughed and I said, you know, Doug Scott in Vermont got asked that same question this afternoon during his press conference. And the irony of that is in Vermont, he's answering that question in the New Hampshire I am, which is kind of an interesting, interesting contrast. But one of the things that he said that struck me was that it's far too early right now. They don't have sufficient data to know, that  things are going well  or they're not going well because they just haven't been in school long enough to know.  And so, Jason and I chatted today, and I think I asked him how many days his kids had been in school this year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I think he said, for Jason, is that correct? I think you said four. And, so it's awfully quick. We just we just don't I don't think as a

[R10993-244] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (participating remotely; not presiding) | 2020-09-23
PREV> Frank Sprague: that things are going well or they're not going well because they just haven't been in school long enough to know. And so, Jason and I chatted today, and I think I asked him how many days his kids had been in school this year.
TEXT> And I think he said, for Jason, is that correct? I think you said four.  And, so it's awfully quick. We just we just don't I don't think as a data driven person, I don't think I've got enough data. And then based on what? Rob, Rob, you took the words right out of my mouth on your observations with the people going home sick. I took advantage of the tour the other day to Disney, and while I was there, three kids were sent home with from school just in the brief period of time that I was there. And so I'm really, really concerned about the fact that we've got a lot of kids going home. We don't know if they're they're positive, if they're we've got people with with such certainty, that it's not here. But, we certainly aren't recording any cases of it, but I don't think that that necessarily means it's not here.  So, you know, at this point in time, I'm, I'm really thinking that we really should be looking at the first quarter as originally planned. That's my position at this point, Jason.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Okay.

[R10993-250] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Ben Nester: Mike no.
TEXT> And they. Excuse me. Sorry. So when when we did that,  we got, I don't know how to say it because I have teenagers now that are adult, but they also said they were indifferent, like they wanted to come back sometime. They know what's going to happen. And and the I think that's how it was asked, you know, would you go back full? I don't know how we phrased it when we went around, but I know remember the other ones  and, and but I also think in terms of, of course they want to see their friends. Of course they  people crave the normalcy. So I don't know, in the fairness,  I just I want to be clear on how I if I didn't say it properly, I'm talking about two sets of data before and after. I'm talking about when we shut down. No one was in school from March all the way to the end of the year. And so that's a set of comparison versus now. We opened schools where we have of all the buildings in Sullivan County, we have put more people in. I don't want the this is not hyperbole, okay. We have put a we now have a lot more kids in the buildings.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I think that's the difference between I get the numbers and I get that. But I think six months from now it'll be a different comparison. It has to

[R10993-260] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-09-23
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah.
TEXT> I mean,  obviously I'm never gonna be able to fully represent the student body of Stevens High School. I'm only one of 528 members and only one of 117 members of the senior class this year. But I've done as much as  as big as a job as possible in order to reach out and talk to students in all of my classes and all of my home room to try and get a feeling on what people are standing at. And I think the consensus is, from what the conversations I've had. I reached out to 17 different people last night. All of them said that they wanted to go back at some point.  It's just now is not the right time. I have a couple of quotes if  willing to if I can read it. The school is not ready for fully in person  because there isn't enough hand sanitizer and they're always runs out of bites at the desk. I personally think it's a little too early. I think we should be waiting a little bit longer to get fully in person. Students are getting sorry. Use the hybrid. I don't think that we should stress about having to  go back to school in time. I don't think we should go back to fully in person because Covid hasn't gotten any better and it will be dangerous at Stevens and put kids, family and faculty in different situations.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: All of my classes have just enough people for social distancing. Some even have a couple more desk in the back for extra people. If we go back to full

[R10993-262] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Prescott Herzog: do not have classes with. I reached out to as many people as possible, and I think it's, I understand that I'm coming from a one single perspective, but in my perspective, I tried to talk to as many people as possible. Counterpoint to Jason's.
TEXT> Is that we have maintained very low transmission rates by adhering very strictly to CDC guidelines and answer guidelines. Prior to the reopening of the schools, the vast majority of interactions would take place in a shopping center,  in which case you're not spending large amounts of times next to a stranger.  It's generally in passing they have a click as to how many people are in the building. We are now saying that we feel comfortable enough to put hundreds of people at a time in a in close space, for hours at a time, from mixed families. So Sullivan County is the second lowest transmission rate. That's great. The goal is we are intending to go back to a full reopening. It's inevitable. We are doing a full reopening. What the administration is asking for at this time  is an additional four weeks, which was the original end goal, to get the necessary protection for both the students and the teachers. Children are largely asymptomatic. They're not getting tested, as we've seen from the numbers here, and the teachers tend to be the highest risk demographic. So I am in favor of reopening to a full reopening.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: If we can meet the necessary guidelines to make sure that the people that are doing the teaching are going to be as just as safe as the children, they're

[R10993-277] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Jason Benware: Can you meet it on the 12th?
TEXT> I don't I don't have that answer. I don't know what the impacts of staffing are going to be. There are unknowns right now that that that make me could we if there's no crazy impacts or the the busses look good I think I feel, I feel I feel that the bussing modules as we know it what I what I don't know what's variable. Okay. What I don't know with scientific certainty is what I'm going to get for a change. I could have a change in staff that don't want to work. I think. I think we've we're already seeing that today was one example. As people mentioned, I know that there's going to be a change. We know this from the people who want to come back full, and there's going to be change in how the cohorts are impacting and what's what's happening in the classes. We know from what we've already seen, after about 8 or 10 days of kids being in and out and things like that, those things were going to happen anyway. Following the guidance and whatever, whatever the sickness is, we have to follow that guidance. So there there are variables we do not have answers for right now that we probably need a minimum of two weeks or three weeks.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's why with the plan that we had before, we wanted to look at that. There were other factors. I get the scientific premises of being able to prove or

[R10993-281] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Heather Whitney: Separation.
TEXT> Will be during the time when when masks are removed, such as snack time and lunchtime, it will be important to plan for how it can be done safely. Right now, we have a plan, but we cannot. We cannot meet that guideline and we won't be able to meet it on October 5th. So even this own document from Children's Hospital that that's their safety measures that they recommend. We cannot do it for October 5th.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Okay. All right. I know I've been talking a lot tonight. Yeah.

[R10993-284] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (medium - speaks 'from the specia | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: Heather.
TEXT> I've been talking a lot tonight, so I'll try to keep this brief, but I feel like I should weigh in and just give you my recommendation in terms of reopening and whatnot from the, you know, special ed perspective. And then, you know, the school psychologist in May also wants to weigh in on the, the, you know, the, the, the school culture aspects of reopening, on October 5th or waiting to the end of the quarter. So anyway,  a few thoughts. The one of the things we have about 400 special ed kiddos  in Claremont a little less. And as you can imagine, the hybrid model has created a a  massive sort of lap scheduling labyrinth that you  guys know exactly what I'm talking about. If you're  dealing with that, it's been a big challenge and we're starting to get a solid schedule, you know, which takes two, three, four weeks sometimes to do this. I my recommendation again, is that we just come back at the natural break at the end of the first quarter, because this schedule has been in place just barely. Families are transporting some kids in on their off days, so that they can get services remotely. Some parents have perhaps change their work schedules around so that they can get their kids in for speech services or other different types of services.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So, I would think just on that point, it would be important to give parents a tad more time, right? To, to make this change, they can certainly prepare. It

[R10993-296] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (not self-named; identified as the high | 2020-09-23
PREV> Patricia Barry: special kind of masks so that they can sing. Because of the cost of those masks, availability of them is just not there. So instead of singing, they're making singing masks, which in and of itself is is a great activity, but it's not choir.
TEXT> So,  you know, I'm very much torn as a building principal because we know the things that can't happen with fidelity. We have two kids in a fourth block acting class. Because we have a split cohort that's not an acting class. You know, there's there's six kids in there, but two on the b day. So there's nobody that wants to have everybody back in that building more than myself. But to Ben's point, I completely agree with what he said. The angst around the staff.  We don't have the plexiglass at the high school that we would need in order to today,  in order to have safe lunches. And and we're not ready. Could we be ready? More ready by October 5th? Possibly. But I, I know that if we could at least wait until the end of the quarter, because from an academic perspective, that would be a normal transition. And that would give us time to put in place all the things that Donna and Mike have talked about that we need for PPE, for the plexiglass to. And we know that if you bring all both cohorts together, we're going to have some classes that have 26 students in them. Rob.  Mike. Jason, you walked through the high school last week.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: In a couple of days ago, you saw what those classrooms look like with 14 or 12 desks in there. And you know what they would look like if we

[R10993-300] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Unidentified: Can I just finish?
TEXT> Not necessarily a response. But thanks for sharing that.  My thought on the whole thing is, and it's crazy to me, because every single time leading up to a meeting, you know, I feel one way and then I feel 15 million other ways in the whole process of the meeting. But  I just want to be very clear on where I stand right now is I, I want kids to go back to school, like, ASAP, but I, I think it's unreasonable, and irresponsible to say that they should be back in school by October 5th, given all the amount of things that actually go into it. And, and I understand those things well because I'm living it right now. So, I think it's it's not appropriate to do an ask of October 5th, and I, I  would be in agreement for, you know, 2 or 3 weeks from now, as long as we had all of the protective gear that we needed, as long as we could assure staff and students and parents that we're going to have all the supplies, I think running out of hand sanitizer is, unacceptable at this stage in the game.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And I also just want to add that I would be in full agreement with Ben in regard to the high school level. I view that that level differently from

[R10993-330] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we don't know how that will shake out the other way. And we don't have a solution for the hybrid. See kids right away. Okay. Particularly in the secondary school, we're set on the cohorts for the remote people so far in the elementary, right.
TEXT> The remote cohorts I'm talking about, because we know that's a teacher for a set of kids very similar. You just on a computer screen up here. The schedules are variable in the middle and high where you don't just get, you know, an English or social studies, a nice clean, hey, maybe we go for, for, for and that's what we get. And we have to we may have to force people a force transfer if to, to match what we actually need in a switch. It's a HR nightmare, but it's happening everywhere around the state when people are doing this. That's what that's what we needed the time for before. And that's what we were would have been working on to pull it off right at the quarter break. So that and that's why that was our that was our plan. So if we thought differently before, we would have made when we had the prisoners with, with  Doctor Herzog and how we pulled off that other stuff, we got a prototype. Another thing we were thinking, as Donna said before lunch in the classrooms, that was our plan. Then there's changes to that plan, and it takes a little bit of time so.
NEXT> Unidentified: That we.

[R10993-345] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (parent of a Stevens student) | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Petrin: Can you identify yourself?
TEXT> James Ward. Claremont, New Hampshire. My daughter is a Stevens student, so I just wanted a quick hit. I don't want to take as much time as ended last time.  There are a few things that kind of came up to me that I really wanted to kind of point out, and I appreciate everyone doing all the due diligence and trying to be appropriate with everything that's going on and doing what everyone individually thinks is best for our community. One of the things that I wanted to point out was that we said that even though there's been this study and there's been this state recommendation, it's not the same as the CDC. So we're not going to follow the CDC. But if in the event of an infection, the actual quote that I received, on this call was that, well, at that point, we'll take guidance from the state. Well, there's guidance from the state now that we're not acknowledging or moving forward with the idea that if we did open up the channel to allow people to return to school full time, a lot of the conversations and based on, well, if everyone came back, this is what would happen. I don't think that is a comparable number. I think that there are some people that are really concerned with this and are still going to continue to stay home.
NEXT> James Ward: I understand that you have to prepare for the worst and you have to do your due diligence, but. We know based on certain things that there are there are

[R10993-346] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (parent of a Stevens student) | 2020-09-23
PREV> James Ward: the conversations and based on, well, if everyone came back, this is what would happen. I don't think that is a comparable number. I think that there are some people that are really concerned with this and are still going to continue to stay home.
TEXT> I understand that you have to prepare for the worst and you have to do your due diligence, but. We know based on certain things that there are there are parents that agreed to proceed with bringing their kids to school and not require bussing, and their parents that don't feel comfortable with their child's coming, going to school.
NEXT> Unidentified: George.

[R10993-400] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-23
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Already remote, stay remote for the semester. They could revisit that at the end of that, just just for the logistics.
TEXT> Of okay. And with the understanding that high school students would need to be transported to the high school, which screws me, I might add, but. Right. No bussing for high school students. Did I forget anything? Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do you want to receive that? You have so. Well, I'm. I'm trying. I'm.

[R10993-478] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding as acting chair in Frank  | 2020-09-23
PREV> Unidentified: Anymore.
TEXT> Agenda items on the list, which include the grading system, high school students failing classes due to remote learning and plan to the system. An update on the needle exchange program, update on school safety, update on process and financial safeguards to protect the district. Update on program of study for Stephens data growth.
NEXT> Unidentified: And treatment levels.

[R11007-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: accommodate a cohort, see some very creative. And a lot of energy went in with all with both staffs. To do that, we'll go over those. And then what the five full days and the remote see cohorts look like at elementary, middle and high.
TEXT> Okay.  So the first in talking about the survey, this is a composite of the survey 615 respondents with and it overwhelmingly  being 93% that students want to return. Families want to return full back, which is going to be impactful in all the grades. And as we anticipated, it's fairly overwhelming. We also know anecdotally in a few cases  and maybe maybe more, where parents were also waiting for this presentation and  and they expressed that they still may go to see. And we're hoping that they don't. And we're hoping that we have good options to talk about for everyone. But everyone has to make that decision based on their own personal situation. And it's a really tough one to make, and we understand that. All right. So, this this picture, you can see this is a picture of one of our custodians, I believe that's the middle school. Deep cleaning. And, I want to talk about the term deep cleaning. All right. So that that that's all the superintendents and business managers, and we all cringe when we hear that term because it's a very leading term. And it it it it infers that there's not a lot of cleaning maybe going on on the other days.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I really want to set the record straight that we clean and use the foggers in the rooms every single night. Okay. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Every

[R11007-73] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we, we changed a couple of assignments around. Next I wanted to what came up particularly from from Mimi when she presented citizens comment about the, the not being able to commit to having a a bus for Stevens High School as it's not required.
TEXT> I wanted to show you some of the data that that we've been looking at. You know, obviously we we don't we're not excited about that aspect either. But but when we look at all the whole entire student body and what what you're looking at now is kind of a report on the transients over the last two years  of, of from October to January. How many kids come and go in the elementary schools.  And basically to show that I believe approximately 20 or 25 go back and forth almost over the course of a year at each school. Those are the same elementary routes and things like that. In that, in that three month period, some some exit, some enter. But when they when they enter and exit, they have the opportunity to take the bus. And right now we only have 24 Max students on the bus,  and we're already up around 18 or 20. And we wouldn't be able to to have those, those runs. We also know that to be predictive at the mid-year,  mid-semester, when we were going to evaluate if other people wanted to come back full, depending on this, what we saw overwhelmingly in the survey data.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We know that everyone who was remote now had to stay remote until mid-year. If the survey data holds in the current health trends hold, we are anticipating that we

[R11007-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: wouldn't be able to to have those, those runs. We also know that to be predictive at the mid-year, mid-semester, when we were going to evaluate if other people wanted to come back full, depending on this, what we saw overwhelmingly in the survey data.
TEXT> We know that everyone who was remote now had to stay remote until mid-year. If the survey data holds in the current health trends hold, we are anticipating that we have may have more people come back, potentially even to elementary or middle. And and we would need those busses. So it really is a very tough situation. We're also hoping that if everyone comes back and there's things are are fine health wise, that they they may relax the standards. And we at this time, we can't go back to how the some of these busses had 60 kids on them. We just can't simply go back to that right now. We can only be at 2024. So that's where we are. And that's that's was the rationale for the size. I won't bore you with all the all the stats, but we did look at it very closely. And it was it's a tough thing to, to, to have to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. On the bus.

[R11007-87] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: No.
TEXT> Okay. So I was just wondering if you because we've had a lot of parents who have, asked about how many students would be riding the bus at the high school level. So do we know  how many students based off previous years or even based off kids switching to, you know, full schooling and where they live at this moment in time, how many would be needing to to use bus services for the high school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: How many are being eliminated now and how many might come back at mid-year? That's that's what we don't know how many might come back.

[R11007-91] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes.
TEXT> Right. I understand, but what I'm trying what I'm wondering is, do we have any idea of how many high school students would need to be accessing the busses in order to be able to say, no, we cannot provide bussing for the high school? That's my question.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So we know how many. We know how many students are on the bus right now. What we are our biggest thing that we don't know at mid-year and

[R11007-92] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: but what I'm trying what I'm wondering is, do we have any idea of how many high school students would need to be accessing the busses in order to be able to say, no, we cannot provide bussing for the high school? That's my question.
TEXT> Yeah. So we know how many. We know how many students are on the bus right now. What we are our biggest thing that we don't know at mid-year and also even running up to this. And that's why I'm trying to show the transients of other runs that could affect that. And I should have had I did have a slide on the middle school run that I wish I  had in that I thought it was in there. But all those things are impactful that we we can't. The middle school and high school busses are already right at 20. So even with with more, with more coming back in, the transients at the middle school that would push it over and it's, it's, I can get I can get the exact numbers and.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'm just, I'm just wondering if we could have or even maybe just myself if no one else is interested, you know, an approximate number of how many kids would

[R11007-93] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: middle school and high school busses are already right at 20. So even with with more, with more coming back in, the transients at the middle school that would push it over and it's, it's, I can get I can get the exact numbers and.
TEXT> I'm just, I'm just wondering if we could have or even maybe just myself if no one else is interested, you know, an approximate number of how many kids would be riding the bus  and how many kids we would have to provide transportation for  following the five day full schooling, because I think there are a lot of parents who  are feeling like  they haven't heard why we can't provide it other than the two other than the three foot distancing. If I'm making any sense here.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Well, it is the two and the three. It's the cap at 24 in a bus overall. You can in that we're we're right there and that we know that

[R11007-94] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: transportation for following the five day full schooling, because I think there are a lot of parents who are feeling like they haven't heard why we can't provide it other than the two other than the three foot distancing. If I'm making any sense here.
TEXT> Well, it is the two and the three. It's the cap at 24 in a bus overall. You can in that we're we're right there and that we know that we're going to have other moving kids on on both fronts on the middle school run completely combined already with the high school as well as the elementary run.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, I understand that. I understand I'm just looking for an approximate number.

[R11007-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I've not yet figured out how I'm going to get him to school because he uses the bus two days a week now. So when people are upset, I just want him to know that sometimes we actually can relate fully to what's going on.
TEXT> And we also have had a lot of people reach out to us, and if they have questions, we can definitely explain the rationale and when it ends and things like that. But,  and we do take a lot of those calls as well. We're trying to get everything bus questions also funneled through  the so  many times they, folks would call the basket as well. But we're trying to closely monitor exactly what the changes are and check with Pam so that  they're  not put on and what grade the kid is in, and just double and triple checking so that we're equitable right down the line with the same answers.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So and one more thing I just wanted to say thank you to everybody at the bus garage, because I've talked to Pam a couple of times and I feel

[R11007-101] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: They they have been rock stars and through the summer to with feeding everyone they are have been amazing, amazing asset to the district.
TEXT> So while we're on bussing in the bus garage, I just a side note the bus garage looks great with a new paint job, by the way. Yeah. And thank you for all they're doing down there. My question is, and I've seen pop up on social media that I think is southern New Hampshire transportation, the one that does dial ride and routes around Claremont. It popped up that they may be available to help transport kids.  I know dial a ride is like a dollar. You know, your calls say I need a ride. I know it's a financial impact, but it, I'm not sure if they've reached out to yes or no.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I haven't.

[R11007-109] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: this is an this is a name that the administration, this is sort of the public, that we were, they told us one thing in them hoping that, which makes our decisions based on what they told us, a little tougher to, to live with.
TEXT> So I wish what people would, you know, if they can get their kid to school. And it's a matter of convenience if they could notify the saw and say, you know what, given that there's some kids who can't get to school, I'll give up my seat for that kid. So I guess that's a yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I mean, I mean, we we could, we could, we could put out all the, we could put another survey to all that and just see where they are and

[R11007-115] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member; attending remotely | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: See you on my screen.
TEXT> I just wanted to say that Southwest Community Services bus line, they're really, really good to work with, and they might step in in the interim before we can put any more kids on on the running busses. Now.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carolyn, can you repeat just the first part of what you said? Because I didn't have my mic, my speaker on.

[R11007-120] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: So,
TEXT> All right, so the next item that we have is, is we're going to talk about the schedules and the schedule changes. And Audra Buckland, assistant principal at that at the middle school, is going to come up and talk about this. I was fortunate enough to observe in multiple sessions  the the administration working with the teachers, trying to come up with this together. I, I just can't say enough about it. Anyone who has work scheduling buildings, which I did for for way too many years in my career, 15 or 20 or so, it's apt to pull it off and to pull it off with a,  kind of the finesse and thinking of all, all students in learning and, and open up some opportunities for,  particularly for the remote students. My hat's off to them. So I turn it over to Audra.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: I actually, I think Frank is.

[R11007-126] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (called 'Frank' on the record; surn | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: Frank. Yeah.
TEXT> So I know.  And, Audrey, I know that you're about to give her a presentation on it. Or the one thing I do want to say,  first off, about this schedule is that this schedule was born out of the care and concern for our cohort C students by our faculty and staff. These cohort C students that we have not seen since mid-March, some of them brand new to our building coming up from elementary. There they are, CMS, Eagles and and we haven't seen them. And for fear of what may happen as the 19th approaches with A and B coming back together. Whether that be Odyssey where V lacks, or, you know, a decision being made that they're going to have to in some way or another, we as a faculty and staff, they were the driving force behind this and wanting to have, at least give some sort of option. And in our hand on the wheel to help bring our cohort C students back into the fold. And whenever they do return and, and whatever that looks like come February 1st, we want them to know that we  care. And our faculty and staff want to bring them together. So what you see here is something that that the faculty and staff worked incredibly hard on.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: No one idea was, automatically adopted. It sort of was, why don't we try this and can we do this? And what do you think about that? And then we

[R11007-131] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: that we've been for a couple of years now, really working towards incorporating project based learning. I would say that the biggest compromise in the schedule that's in front of you is that we had to pull out our dedicated time for project based learning.
TEXT> It's very unfortunate, but I also, I think both Frank and I feel pretty confident in our staff that people are so bought into it and excited about it that we will find a way to incorporate it in our regular classes so that we can at least keep it, keep a focus on it, keep doing some professional development around it, keep putting our toes in the water with it so that it stays there for the future. So in terms of safety, some of the things that we talked about was wanting to get our class sizes as small as possible. The social distancing is was really critical.  So we talked about having,  for separating. We've always had our five blocks. We have a UA. Every student has a UA,  math, Ela, social studies and science as of this year. And then we were as school started, we had our lunch block backed up to advisory, and then we had our project based learning block. The intentional schedule that that we have always had includes this saw block in the middle of the day, where students are able to have their lunch and then be able to go back to a block for extra help and support on on things that they're having trouble with or enrichment in that subject.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: If they're kind of going far ahead of the curriculum, they can also do band chorus during that time. They might have social emotional learning opportunities during that time, be

[R11007-133] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (called 'Frank' on the record; surn | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: we were so those were some of the things that we had in our original schedule that were able to bring back the project based learning. We had to get, we had to remove. Frank, I don't know if you want to jump in here.
TEXT> Me yeah, yeah. Okay. So yeah,  I, I just want to touch on the, the PBL part and and that was not an easy  so much work had gone into that over the summer. One of our teachers dedicated to PBL. That that was a real hard decision. So in our minds, the block of PBL may go away, but but, we're just going to need to reinvent it and vet it in our, and our classes, in our and  in our school. And that will happen.  It is not going away.  And I think the most important thing about, as Audra just talked about is not only the core classes, the  A's, but the importance of that social emotional piece that we provide. And it, you know, going back all the way to March, knowing that that was such a vital piece that was missing. And then over the summer, and what would that look like when students came through the door, on in September and were we prepared for it, and how were we going to support our faculty and staff and our families? And so, I'm excited and looking forward to that being be introduced into our schedule. And again, it's a it's a series of compromises.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: But having that there and being able to offer again chorus and band. In a format that we weren't able to and reaches all learners and helps provide all our

[R11007-135] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Romeo: weren't able to and reaches all learners and helps provide all our students. So, this schedule is exciting for a number of reasons. And with safety, obviously is Audrey talked about being the primal focus along with quality education for all learners. So, I have.
TEXT> And touching back on the safety piece. I think originally when we put this out to faculty and when we started talking about it and we thought what we had heard was that there would be a different plan for the C cohort kids. And so I think we were thinking about the numbers in hybrid  being spread over the course of our day and how do we accommodate them. And we were thinking of going splitting them into even smaller cohorts if we brought them back together so that the rooms could still house 12, maybe 15 students per  grade level. And teachers were pretty excited about that. I think  feeling more confident that kids could be in smaller groups. However, as the survey numbers continued to come in and we were really looking at the the reality of what the options were for our C cohort learners and looking at what their learning was right now, and feeling very frustrated that as the weeks go by, we are not having the opportunity to reach them the way that we would like to.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And I think, you know, Frank mentioned this. We do see them as our students, kids. Kids were already catching the buzz of boy, October 19th, what happens to us?

[R11007-139] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: For in the block for which looks like it's 1032 to 1120 and then the end of the day. So what is what is that exactly entail? Will they be getting taught lessons? Is that a check in time? What is it?
TEXT> Sure. So let me go back to the morning. Teachers would have only one C cohort block in the morning. Every middle school student would actually log in  in the morning to every class. They'd have their block A, block B, block C, block D, and block E, so all five of their classes every day that they would log into  and have access to the teacher from that subject. So that's in the teacher would send out a meet and there would be some form of instructional activity activity going on for part of that, and then just access to support as students were interacting with the activity for that class. So that's in the morning. So a student would have a middle school age student. And really our teachers advocate for this being a very developmentally appropriate model that they need the structure. They need the routine. They need to be getting the support on a regular basis. Not like just it's out there and you do it and then check in couple of times a week. It's the daily routine setting for a middle school age student,  and then the extra support is 140 to 215. And that's on Monday. In this version it would be for block E only. So that's when you would get kind of a more individualized meet time with your blocky teacher and so forth.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R11007-143] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Someone ask you, Rob or Carolyn, do you have any questions for Miss Buckland? Any other questions here?
TEXT> I'm just wondering if you can explain  a little more, Audra, about how that's happening. I know you just mentioned teacher teaching and answering emails, and, Our teacher is doing both teaching and teaching in-person and also attending to the C cohort students currently.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: Right now, that that is what they've been asked to do. Under our current model, we feel this is a way that we can do so more effectively and efficiently.

[R11007-145] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: Right now, that that is what they've been asked to do. Under our current model, we feel this is a way that we can do so more effectively and efficiently.
TEXT> Okay, I just wanted to say  I have a kiddo in eighth grade, so I see the teachers  working on the hybrid days. I see them still responding to her on the days where they're working with kids in person. I see them, you know, responding to her and working with her on Wednesdays. And I think there's a lot of misunderstanding about there in regard to  teachers not trying to juggle both. So I just want that to be clear that they are. The same goes for the high school level.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: Yeah they are. They're working tirelessly to try to do it. They want the opportunity to do it even better if with. The way that they were.

[R11007-150] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Way there's any discussion to that.
TEXT> So. The discussion around PBL has really focused on embedding it in our into the classes. So the long plan, the long range plan for PBL has always been that's a great way of teaching. But with like with anything you build capacity. And so ideally at some point in time we will be just incorporating more and more PBL into our content area. Right now the thought is  this is a lot on people's plate. Even with this model, it's not doable. In the day that we have. There will be the questions at night. I mean, teachers have always made themselves available to for extra support after school, and now we do it through Google Meet. And so  there's a lot, within this, our teachers also still have their own families and needs that they're meeting. Right. So, so this is a way that we feel we can pull back a little bit on something  and make room for what are the pressing needs this year, but still keep it keep it forefront by having asking everybody to embed. We were even thinking, this spring that we might do an interdisciplinary fair for a week or two where it's a project based, theme based thing for the entire school, and that it could incorporate our Group C students to, and that's something that we can we're committed enough that we will find a way to pull it in with and not lose traction. We're just it's the compromise.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I have another question. It's unrelated. Can I ask it? Answer yes. So unrelated. But, picture days for students. I saw A and B, but I've still not seen anything

[R11007-151] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: based thing for the entire school, and that it could incorporate our Group C students to, and that's something that we can we're committed enough that we will find a way to pull it in with and not lose traction. We're just it's the compromise.
TEXT> I have another question. It's unrelated. Can I ask it? Answer yes. So  unrelated. But, picture days for students. I saw A and B,  but I've still not seen anything on C yet. Do you know what the plan is for that?
NEXT> Audra Buckland: Okay. My understanding and Frank, you may need to jump in on this, but my understanding is that we combined A and B, and C is the second day. But

[R11007-164] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And Frank can you also just mention the the road to synchronous and what that might take for ramp up. Just so we clarify that for folks that it's not like flipping a switch. You know.
TEXT> Piece of the ramp up is the physical space requirements. And I, I think that I not sure  if that's part of your presentation a little bit later on, but there are a number of things that I mean, even just this afternoon, our teachers were busy  trying to figure out. And for the past couple of weeks since the board decision, have been trying to figure out how do we fit in for this X number of students, safely. How do I reconfigure my room? We've offloaded so much furniture. Now, how do we get it back? What do we get back? That type of thing. So it's. It's just been the dance, right? That we've all made sure we've all been making it a priority to make the space that kids are in  as safe as possible on a regular basis. And at one point, that meant making sure there was as little surface area as possible so that we could keep that all clean. And now we need more surface areas to fit more kids. So  it's just a reality of it. And, and it's,  it's part of the the equation two weeks is is tough  to make that all happen again.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Got an email said as board members from parents who are wondering exactly what the safety precautions are going to be, at the school level. So can you just really

[R11007-167] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Audra Buckland: from a contact tracing point of view, we still would have been very careful in been able to do that. But the hallway passing and the number of kids in contact with each other and even, shockingly or not shockingly, middle schoolers are incredibly social.
TEXT> One of the saddest things is to see them not be able to spend as much social time as they used to, but the more social time they spend, sometimes, the harder it is to reel them back in. And then you're dealing with that, right? So in terms of keeping it safe, keeping them learning focused, it's less passing time we felt was safer. So the three classes is we are able to keep them in their  home base room, for the day, except for you a in science,  we are not able to necessarily have some of the larger cohorts down in the cafeteria. I mean, down in their rooms, because they wouldn't have enough social distance from one another to eat in their rooms. So but we are able to use some rooms for that based on the cohort sizes, is the modeling that we're doing. We will be able to keep at least two classes per grade level and over by spreading it out over three lunches. That means that we would only have four home base rooms going down to the cafeteria for lunch at any given time, and we plan to use the cafeteria and the multi-purpose room so that that represents Max 30 kids in each of those very large places.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And we feel that we'll be able to spread them out safely in that, in that space. So I think those are some of the biggest things that obviously hand

[R11007-170] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (called 'Frank' on the record; surn | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> And during the blocks, we rotate teachers, not students. And Audra had had pointed that out. And so that was part of, of when talking with faculty and staff and, and it  the decision of, do I want a couple of more students in my class or do I want them walking the hallways? The teachers, talked about and said, I would rather have the more students for you in my class and rotate,  than have students rotate through the building. And that's no easy feat either. Right? You have in the eighth grade wing. There's two floors. So you're asking a teacher to finish up, pack up their stuff or what have you and move forward. But all of them are doing it, as they need to. Everyone's being supportive about it and understanding and and that was another sort of driving force was who do we who do we rotate throughout the building and how do we do it safely? And what we got back was we we want to rotate the teachers. And I was very happy just to add about what we decided and what we came up with with lunch. Because that's no easy feat to to still have 300 kids to feed. And to keep them safe and keep faculty and staff safe at the same time.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And so, that that took a lot of work as well. And so I'm very proud of the work that our faculty and staff did with this schedule. It is,

[R11007-174] Audra Buckland | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Romeo: Ever.
TEXT> Build a culture in your classroom and that becomes your family for the year and your place where you teach. And that's your office.  So it's really hard to ask. They not only volunteered it for the safety of kids, but then they set to work to figure out how do we keep culture? How do we keep making sure kids are learning what they need to in those spaces, and that we're not at odds with each other going into each other's spaces? What are the rules that we're going to follow to be courteous of each other's classrooms? And they just took that on.  I it was unbelievable to see I've, you know, been on all sides of education. And it was just tremendous to watch that happen. And that's just one example of a number.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Yeah, absolutely. A very solution focused building.

[R11007-176] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Romeo: Yeah, absolutely. A very solution focused building.
TEXT> All right. So we we looked at So we, we  had an administrative team meeting as well in the middle school presented all the concepts that they were doing. The high school was working on a model and I can't stress how many other models we looked at again particularly we didn't necessarily know what the survey information would be. We knew that clock was ticking to present and get stuff running for all of you. We looked at if we could expand Vlachs Opportunities, Odyssey where opportunities  and high school high school felt the same way. None of it was really a we wouldn't have the training in time or. And also we also have the obstacle and it's a big one too that, that that you have you already have established  a kind of a class ethos and system of expectations in the students themselves  needed to remain together if possible. So same page out of out of similar to the middle school is going to be tough for me to to do this from here and be miked. But what they did was they they took  they dropped the class. So those are you familiar with scheduling. It's kids are  assigned to the same classes. Both cohorts go back as well as the C cohort like the like the the middle school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The last block is is reserved for for teaching. If I can't see it, can you scroll on on the screen Jeff, down a little to see the very last

[R11007-177] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: miked. But what they did was they they took they dropped the class. So those are you familiar with scheduling. It's kids are assigned to the same classes. Both cohorts go back as well as the C cohort like the like the the middle school.
TEXT> The last block is is reserved for for teaching. If I can't see it, can you scroll on on the screen Jeff, down a little to see the very last block? Okay, thanks. Okay. And and basically it's the same concept of the of the of the stagger. So you can see the red across in order to make it. It's not a pretty cascade as they even cascade as the middle school one, which was kind of front end loaded before lunch. This schedule, it's similar in concept and that they would have more time at the end of the day than just meeting with the Sees on Wednesday. It would be more consistent. And I also have to stress that, that this just just we just got this today. They've been doing it over the last couple of days and  it's still a work in progress at the high school. They have a you know, a little bit more time to to flush it out. We have to get all these in power school and make the transition. All that other fun stuff, but very similar concept that that students would meet.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I really want to reiterate this, and it's going to come up and when we start, start about some budget monies and some of the things too. I want

[R11007-178] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the high school. They have a you know, a little bit more time to to flush it out. We have to get all these in power school and make the transition. All that other fun stuff, but very similar concept that that students would meet.
TEXT> And I really want to reiterate this, and it's going to come up and when we start, start about some budget monies and some of the things too. I want to commend Jeff Small and his team, for for what this takes, right, to go synchronous and to be synchronous versus asynchronous. Asynchronous is not at the same time to be able to have kids be able to go into the classroom in terms of infrastructure, cameras, all these other things that we need to broadcast. We're still  working, costing those things out. Jeff's looking at all kinds of products. Some of them are through the roof, like everything else during this where prices kind of go up. But we're looking at realistic solutions to all of this, and we should be close. Shortly we have some vendors coming out. But we we have the same type of broadcasting, you know, you just like these meetings. Frankly, if we the worst that would be, would be like these meetings and sometimes for the viewers at home and for myself and for others. We're muted unmuted. And you have to manage the class at the same time. We have some teaching assistants in the classrooms to help out once we move towards synchronous and things like that. But we have a ways to go to be very good at it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But I just I commend the high school as well, having been a high school principal for 15 years. In it is we're slow to change at the high school

[R11007-192] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to, and then they get the instruction to couple it. Much like college, everything in college now is hybrid online. Moodle and Blackboard and all kinds of other platforms. That's going to be the expectation for them. It's the expectation in the workplace as well.
TEXT> So we're not there yet. We're just getting the machines. We're getting the projectors. We're getting everything in terms of our teaching stations being able to broadcast. Never mind. Now we have I think Jeff had has 44 new smart TVs. Okay. And they are basically a 50 inch iPad, okay. That the teacher can put everything up. It's interactive with the students. What we're trying to do now and he researched some. I didn't know about it. There were some a lot of the solutions we we saw for broadcasting were about 900 to $1000 a unit. Some of the ones that he's been looking at, trying to trying to extrapolate out, are half of that or less than half of that. And they can go on our existing units so that we don't have to get the, the brand new smart TVs. So, you know, with the and that's we're trying to get everything together. What we can do see that it works and rolls out.  But at the same time, the critical piece of this is  training staff, having professional learning communities with staff, there's always so if you have 100 teachers, you know, ten of them are absolutely hotshots. Can't wait for this to get in or 20%.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'm just ballpark it. Some are not used to it, and they know exactly what they're doing and they need to ramp up. And then there's everyone in the middle,

[R11007-193] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: out. But at the same time, the critical piece of this is training staff, having professional learning communities with staff, there's always so if you have 100 teachers, you know, ten of them are absolutely hotshots. Can't wait for this to get in or 20%.
TEXT> I'm just ballpark it. Some are not used to it, and they  know exactly what they're doing and they need to ramp up. And then there's everyone in the middle, right. So it's more the learning community's doing it together, showing that the value of once of what a taping the teacher and just the teacher right in the presentation or parts of it  spinning off, what the teacher is doing with other other materials, other movies, other flipped classroom type of, of things, and then having the students themselves show their original work in, you know, online and the like, and it's  really come leaps and bounds. We still have a couple years before we can say we're in the categories of those who have been doing it.  But in terms of the technology department, in the professional develop, the development that Tammy Morris and Charlie Gessner do hands on with educators, showing them how to do all this stuff as well. We really have the capacity to, to to just crush this. So we're we're really excited about it. But we we haven't had a lot of time to be excited about it. So right now that's why I'm.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Kind of more so interested in, you know, we've seen a lot of people say, why can't we just have webcams up in the camera? And then the teachers can

[R11007-195] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: lot of people say, why can't we just have webcams up in the camera? And then the teachers can be teaching the students at home and in person. That was kind of where I was going with my original question, why can't we do that?
TEXT> Yeah, it's yeah, it's the infrastructure. You have to have that stuff. You have to have people have to have the capacity to do that.  You also have to have paraprofessionals and others assisting the class, just like many of us. You know, it's a new world to be on. You know, zooms and, and Google meets and the like. And it's tough to, to look at the, the question board of all the learners in the group at the same time that you're imparting the lesson. Adjusting it as, as needed and the like. So it it's it's a challenge and there may. Be no.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: What I understand.

[R11007-282] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-10-07
PREV> Richard Seaman: also from the the people that read who handle the maintenance for us. The busses go at a price of, approximately $105,000. So if we were to replace these two, which are clearly our two oldest, that would be utilizing $210,000 from the expendable trust.
TEXT> The other recommendation is to acquire at least one and maybe two vans  to be used, both for our special needs transportation that we have. And also just for moving kids around as is needed.  The cost on the vans is, I believe 25 or $24,000. $28,000 for to purchase and to purchase a van.  And I say the recommendation now is for two. I don't think we finalized whether it will be 1 or 2, but the recommendation coming in from Pam and her team is to have two. So the request here is to utilize the the, expendable trust that we have set up for transportation. And if we add all these together, we come up with $264,000 for the for the four vehicles. My recommendation would do a motion of up to $275,000, which just allows us to get the bids in and to be able to, to, to  to work with the different providers here, but up to $275,000 for the purchase of two busses and up to two vans to handle our transportation needs.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: When we. Met with the taxpayers, the, public hearing about these these trust funds, what did what did we say were allocating for busses out of all of those monies?

[R11007-291] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Richard Seaman: Can you help me out a little more? That one? Mike I know that it has more to do with some of the special needs transportation that we have.
TEXT> Yeah. So as I understand it to you, we also have, We have some community elements where where some of the there's outreach within the communities, mentorships for some of the special ed programs. And we also have the opportunity that will be presenting at budget season. We are trying to we were targeting opening another special ed program from the Special Ed Trust with the the closure of Crotchet Mountain, which again, someone picked up Crotchet Mountain and we will be looking to do that in the spring as well. So basically we know that we have a we have another program that Mr. Nester and Mr. Cochran have been talking about, where we  have students going out to inspire at least an hour away each way, every day, very expensive placements. And we're looking to to start that program up here in the spring.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So when you're talking about the vans, you're not talking about special ed students that we already have in district that ride the, the yellow busses. No, this is two

[R11007-292] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: another program that Mr. Nester and Mr. Cochran have been talking about, where we have students going out to inspire at least an hour away each way, every day, very expensive placements. And we're looking to to start that program up here in the spring.
TEXT> So when you're talking about the vans, you're not talking about special ed students that we already have in district that ride the, the yellow busses. No, this is two different things. What you're talking about is a potential for offering transportation for students that are out of district, who we want to take in.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's one thing. And also for the existing program, particularly at the high school, to go out into the community, bore the can, you can speak to that, that program

[R11007-305] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: That might be for in a second. Second. Further discussion.
TEXT> Question. So if the busses if the vans are going to be used primarily for a part of the expansion to manage the students from the expansion of the special education program. Why wouldn't we be taking the funds from that trust that we kind of set aside, versus taking it from the transportation?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: You asked what I was going to ask.

[R11007-316] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Good point Rebecca. Further discussion on the motion.
TEXT> I guess I do have a little. Yeah, I'm a little concerned with the optics behind where the money is coming from. You know, I, I don't think this is a an underhanded approach or anything, but I think it could have be viewed by the public who felt that they were designating certain funds to expand the program. And now it was as if we are using funds that were allocated for traditional students  to support, the special education program. So I just would like clarification for that and how we can reassure the public that these additional vans will be used to at least service the traditional students in the interim, if we need them for transportation, for transporting, say, the high school students or other  expansion. Expanding the bus routes a little bit for our most needy transportation issues, with the potential for reimbursing the transportation fund in the in  the future.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I was.

[R11007-319] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it will go down. But but we would be very comfortable doing that and showing you exactly how we're using it. And so that, that you can fully go to the bank with, with how you vote for the motion. I completely I think that's.
TEXT> I think when we, we approach the public, I don't think there was any stipulation as to what type of transportation it would be was transportation. And clearly vans and busses are transportation. We have special ed kids that ride our regular busses. So I just I don't I don't see the the bright line of distinction that you see on the use of the money.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[R11007-444] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-10-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: when we're, we're, you know, what do we have in place going forward with the audits. And basically we, we, we have we have a lot it's we have a regular cycle of audience. And I don't remember that there was anything more to that.
TEXT> About B, though. Could we get an update on students that are failing and due to remote.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And yeah that was.

[R11007-452] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well.
TEXT> It may have been more beneficial to some students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I mean, I don't one of the things you're still trying to get ready for reopening schools, so I don't want to load you up with other data you need

[R11007-473] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-10-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: I don't want that. So anything else? For the good of the order? Yeah. Jason.
TEXT> For what it's worth,  the good of the order. I just wanted to make bring it to the attention of the board. At the last meeting, we were talking about a lot of different things. The one thing that came up was the amount of spacing in between students and, and  how if we reduced our spacing to four feet versus six feet, that we would have, Donna said. We would have more exposure, so we would have more kids that would be exposed. And as I was envisioned it, I didn't see it that way. I thought that if we were 4 or 6ft away, were going to have the same amount. Well, when I went home, somebody responded to me and said, what about the diagonal kids? Now, when I was envisioning this, I didn't think of diagonal kids. So I got I got on a piece of paper and I did some geometry and lo and behold, the kid sitting in the middle going, dad only has only about 5.6ft away from every other kid. That being said, more kids are exposed at four feet than they are at six feet. Would that have changed my decision on any of this? No, but I wanted to make a point to tell you, Donna, I was incorrect and I know this. And so.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Very write that down.

[R11007-484] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries the chair's opening and pr | 2020-10-07
PREV> Unidentified: For, for.
TEXT> As I understand this and I can, I can, you know, over the summer and then, my understanding and I don't know, all of it, I do know that there are a couple of towns that have those restrictions for some events as well,  but not blanket. I also know that there are a couple towns that will only visit,  okay, you know, will not allow students or come to they won't allow students to visit them, but they will come to our games. And I believe it's at least one of those towns that you mentioned. So. We didn't choose to do that as a, as a, as a school. We didn't choose to limit who comes in. We do have the general postings and sciences stay socially distanced. We have had it's very hard to enforce. It's very hard to enforce  without kind of municipal laws. Guy, you know, police officers and things like that. And I'm not even saying, you know, it's definitely an important area.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But, we also don't have any spectators for volleyball. So I don't want you to think that in other places allow some people to go in for volleyball. Our decision

[R11056-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: This is if you want to answer that now or wait until the.
TEXT> I can, I can just So. I apologize so I, I can answer that. So  and we'll, I'll get into it in detail with some of the, the backup that we have in the report. And also viewers at home can see that if you log on to the web page, the presentation that we're going to present with, with the facts and the rationale is on there. But, we  feel and I'll show you some of the evidence as to why we're, we're coming up on strained capacity  and also on,  on Monday when I pulled the data for this, we're teetering right at  the, 15% student absenteeism and where our purpose tonight isn't, isn't to say it's eminent, that we're going to go one way or another, but it's more to inform. And this is what we what we said at the, we have recommendations as administrative team in, as a group. And this is what we said, that we would come forward at each meeting trying to get as much up to the up to date, information out to folks, try to debunk some of the stuff that's out there and just just give an honest picture of what's happening and what's not.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So in I'll get into that in detail. So and for example, you know, the even though we're approaching a critical in the state of New Hampshire, Sullivan County remains

[R11056-31] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Thank you.
TEXT> Are there other citizens with comments? Jeff, do you see any okay. Seeing none. I'll close citizens comments but that was loud over the microphone. Sorry everybody that's listening. Student report Prescott.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: For you. And we'll also try and get it online, along with the other information after the end so that the public can see it as well. But the culinary

[R11056-36] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Heather.
TEXT> I. Just was curious how the students at. Oh, sorry. Oh, here we go again. I was curious how you felt the students were feeling about the hybrid model that would continue to do. And what your reflections on the last few weeks have been or months have been. Yeah, sure.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: So, with the recent bout of cases, my self personally, I was one of the people that was in close contact with one of the cases. So during Thanksgiving, I

[R11056-39] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Very, very good report. Thank you. Okay. Transition to the superintendent report.
TEXT> Thank you. Chair Sprague so I, I have a few items. To to. Get started with the first. The first item is, in the report, I'm going to kind of go into the, into the discussion and action items as well. And the first item that we have is something that we've been working on, been in communication with the town of Goshen since, I believe, last March or April. When they they asked people to if they were interested in pursuing a tuition agreement. With them and we we did put in a proposal to them.  They have it's been in the news. They have separated their agreement with the Newport Public Schools, and they're looking  for someone or different districts. In our case, the combination of Sussex, Unity and Claremont to be the anchor school. That you are bound to have in the state of New Hampshire as a, that you have to have, which is a promise that you will. Once you start in that district, you have to finish with them. And the origins of that emanate around special ed compliance and law, in that you have to have a stay put place for students, particularly with special needs and the like. And that's kind of the origins of it.  So we've been reviewing that, that because that the actual contract is under negotiation, I'm going to speak to the public portions that I can can speak to about to inform the community.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Why why we're pursuing this, how we think it's a good fit. And our communications with with Goshen so far from the Claremont side as well as we had a

[R11056-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: where it's interesting because they don't have any schools. All of the students who are in the public schools go to other schools and they have choice, and obviously some go to Newport. And just to summarize this, you can look at it at home.
TEXT> Unity in Claremont, where some of the schools selected where folks might want to send their schools. We already have four students from from Goshen in the Claremont schools, and there's already students, in the unity schools as well from Goshen. And there always has been.  So, what this what this would involve I think next, next slide please. Mr. Samuel, what this would involve is  in a get to the numbers next that you're viewing at home. Is a commitment on our part to be able to  have a means of transportation for picking up the students and, and bringing them here. And, what you're looking at now on the viewers at home is the current estimate in the in the numbers that we put in for this year's bid, they would be more more than this. But the amount that we spoke about in our proposal and our answer when we were talking to, to Goshen was that we would the tuition would be  14,100 for an elementary student and 15,300 for each, middle school or high school student that came to us either in unity or in Claremont, whichever they may choose. So in what you're looking at now is a composite.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is by no means a done deal. All all we looked at was their projective kids who would be stepping up and if they all came at once, which

[R11056-42] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we would the tuition would be 14,100 for an elementary student and 15,300 for each, middle school or high school student that came to us either in unity or in Claremont, whichever they may choose. So in what you're looking at now is a composite.
TEXT> This is by no means a  done deal. All all we looked at was their projective kids who would be stepping up  and if they all came at once, which I can't stress enough, would not be the case based on the survey data. And that's why we put it right out there. And that's what we also costed for. But we anticipate, based on their survey data, that most of them want to finish out, as you might expect, which they are allowed to as grandfathered in, the Newport finish out at at either Newport High School or the middle school. And then going forward, we might see them coming in, you know, and picking up the pace to coming in  down the road. But you can see  right now at that configuration we  could we could take many students. Our enrollment has been flat in declining at Stevens High School  and in as  well. Not not so much in the middle school, but at Stevens, we're most likely we would see them. We anticipate just from communication and just kind of common sense and proximity, that they may want to  go to unity for the elementary and eighth grade to eighth grade experience, all all at Unity Elementary School. And that's what the survey initial survey information showed as well. But there could be a substantial amount of revenue coming in between 200 and 3000 $300,000.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We estimate eventually maybe 2 or 3 years from now, which would be a great boon for particularly for Stevens High School and looking to fill out and maybe get

[R11056-43] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to unity for the elementary and eighth grade to eighth grade experience, all all at Unity Elementary School. And that's what the survey initial survey information showed as well. But there could be a substantial amount of revenue coming in between 200 and 3000 $300,000.
TEXT> We estimate eventually maybe 2 or 3 years from now, which would be a great boon for particularly for Stevens High School and looking to fill out and maybe get a few teachers. We've been trying to fill in the budget,  and it would not substantially. When you get students, you usually, you know, you get them in each of the grades and spread out in student schedules are variable at the high school level. So we feel like we could absorb that easily, and it would be an enormous benefit for us in terms of scale and adding to, you know, the school community and also the on the revenue side, eventually would also help out, you know, our budget in L.A., some things for taxpayers as well. So I highly recommend pursuing it to the board. And if there are any questions on that, we can talk about it. But we'd be asking for maybe a motion and to pursue going forward with on that. If I don't know if you want to do it at that time, try to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do it now.

[R11056-50] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-02
PREV> Jason Benware: Or you can somebody could talk about something while I do.
TEXT> I'll talk a little bit. One of the things about,  that I said in the meeting with virtually with Mike and with the superintendent of Cosham and their board chair, plus Marjorie, and we talked about this and, it's in certainly as, as Mike said, nobody's going to be coming here all at once because kids are in progress in other schools. For example, someone who's in  six or seventh grade at Newport probably will continue at Newport. And so they would be, it would be a trickle coming in. And if we didn't get elementary students coming in and we would get to we would determine which school they're going into. So we know we've got some  at our elementary levels, that we've got some third grade classes that have got eight kids in them, and we've at one school and we've got classes with over 20 in a different school. So we would, we could, would be able to balance classes, school to school in that way as well and utilize the resources that we already have rather than than adding staff. So it's something that I think is, I don't I don't see a downside to it. I think it's a, I think it's helps when we lost Cornish a few years ago and it, goes a little ways and,  plugging that, that whole revenue hole that we had from that other comments, I can't see Rob or Carolyn, so.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[R11056-100] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: the date they first have symptoms. So if somebody had symptoms on Monday but went for testing on Tuesday, you would use the Monday date and go back. So it's whichever whichever date you go back to 48 hours so that they have us doing.
TEXT> It's so confusing to me because I keep hearing the 14. So then when you count 14 days back from today, it's November 19th. So kids were still in school at Disney on November 19th in the US.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Go back. They don't have to do 1448 hours, 48 hours from either the onset of symptoms or from a positive test.

[R11056-115] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: correlation between the dates and the holidays and the gatherings below. And obviously you know this hasn't happened yet. But if you, you know, look at, look at the news and what's predicted, they're expecting some type of wave from, from the, from the holiday.
TEXT> And we'll be keeping our eye on that as, as I'm sure you know, viewers at home are as well. All right. Next next slide please. This is the slide. This is the latest from from the Chad group at Children's Hospital at Dartmouth Pediatrics. The group that Doctor Chapman runs. And he sent us this. It's very similar to the matrix following, graphic. You, you people at home. It's on the website. We have all our other documents around the website too. You can follow the links and get to the same exact slide presentations that that we have. Next, next one is our first. Okay. So our proposal and this this is an action item. And all of these things combined and looking at and I know that there was talk within the community, and I know that other communities have fallen out, and a few others around the state have have either gone to a  remote or  they, they announced that they were going to extend a break either before or after the Thanksgiving holiday.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What we're trying to do in order to give families enough time to plan for the winter holiday break, we have the two weeks coming up into optimize the physical

[R11056-116] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: within the community, and I know that other communities have fallen out, and a few others around the state have have either gone to a remote or they, they announced that they were going to extend a break either before or after the Thanksgiving holiday.
TEXT> What we're trying to do in order to give families enough time to plan for the winter holiday break, we have the two weeks coming up into optimize the physical distance and separation. I hate even saying that, but I'm from a from a public health standpoint. In quarantine periods for students and staff, particularly those  over that long break, and whether I think it's a Prescott made a good point  before, and I don't want to to mix this, but in talking to community members, folks who are calling in to the say, in evidence, we're getting and following our contact tracing and frankly, conversations I've had with some of the board members and what we've all observed in, in this community and others is not everyone is consistently following the rules. Some people are are taking it to the letter lock, quarantining at home. And, you know, we know that it's not as consistent. We feel like this would give our families an opportunity in some cases to if they're going to travel or if they have enough time, if we kind of vote on it now to plan where they might be able to travel, come back in quarantine for 14 days.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We know that we have Christmas. We know that we have New Years. We have those other other events, and we feel it would be safer for the whole school

[R11056-129] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (arrived late) | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So go ahead, Jason.
TEXT> So I have a fundamental problem with planning for people who will do what they're not supposed to do, and essentially making decisions that punitive affect people who do the right thing. Because there's people out there who will not travel over the holidays because they would have to quarantine for 14 days, and they'll make that decision and they'll choose not to do it because it's the right thing to do. There are people out there who don't have money enough to travel over the holidays, who have to work,  and then by essentially then saying, you can't send your kid to school for two more weeks after that, and you'll be negatively affected financially by that, because other people want to do what isn't right. And that's essentially what we're doing.  It's kind of like saying, none of you should drive on the roads, because there are people out there that won't stop for stop signs. The fact is, is that if we made rules like that, then we're essentially we're punishing the wrong people.  And  I just I don't agree with that.  So that's just my $0.02 on the notion of keeping kids out of school for two extra weeks, because we know people won't follow the rules.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So I. Feel opposite, which is not surprising, because you and I are often on different ends of the spectrum, but I feel like it's a punishment to those of

[R11056-131] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: scenarios where people do travel and then they don't share that information or, you know, their kids go somewhere and they tell their kids not to share that information, as we have seen in my own school, because kids come to school and tell you.
TEXT> So, I think it's not so much about penalizing those of us who are not going to travel and who are going to do what we feel is right. I think it's just about being a little bit more proactive and taking care of everybody in the school staff and students and keeping them safe, or whatever you may feel about it from what may come back. I think it's just a proactive measure, and it makes me feel better knowing that the CDC may have maybe changing their guidelines to 7 to 10 days as opposed to 14 days. But I would definitely advocate and and I feel strongly that it just is a safe, proactive measure for everybody. Then you don't create the whole atmosphere of, you know, untruths and people spying on each other and then coming back to administration and tattling and then other parents tattling on other parents. You just avoid the whole entire thing because we know not everybody is going to do what is recommended.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And they're glad.

[R11056-135] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-12-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: a true break, meaning no instruction either remote or in person. And instead we take away the April and February vacation and replace that with in school education, like don't take don't take those vacations. So we don't lose those two weeks of in-house education.
TEXT> So I was watching TV the other day and, I noticed that Lebanon Middle School went to full remote, I believe. Rebecca, you're in that district. Is it full remote? Yeah. And there was a statement from the superintendent which which I thought was was interesting.  And their main rationale was the fact that their staff was being impacted. And she used a word that I thought was pretty impactful to me. And she was talking about the word appropriate. And I'm sure that he or she I'm not sure if it's a male or female.  And I think that that word was chosen intentionally. And so when we talk about the, the effectiveness of face to face, that's based on the presumption that there's a teacher there every day delivering that instruction every day. I don't think that, three kids, three classes, for example, and I don't I'm making this up. I don't know if this is happening or not, but I if I could see it happening, or you might have three classes in the cafeteria with one person supervising them. There's no instruction taking place. So that that's my pushback on that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I don't think anybody can dispute the value of face to face instruction. No, that is not in that is not a debatable point. Everybody recognizes that. But as I

[R11056-139] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I don't want to put this off for two weeks. I want to make a decision on this tonight, and then we can talk about the other aspects of what Mr. Temple is going to talk about later. So that being said, other comments. Mike.
TEXT> I you know, I don't if people are not going to follow the rules, they're not going to follow the rules, whether it's Christmas, Easter, yeah, summer, whatever it may be. I also think that right now parents have the choice. They have the option. If they're not comfortable sending their kids to school, they have the option to keep their kids home for those two weeks remote. Those parents that are comfortable sending their kids to school, send your kids to school. If you're not comfortable sending your kids to school in the two weeks after Christmas break, then  keep your kids home. But right now, I know we can debate remote back and forth, and I don't, at least from my experience and my family's experience, remote is not has not been a good option. It's been detrimental, to be honest. And hopefully the remote is getting better as we, as we do more of it. And I think, I mean, I'll, I'll say that I know everybody's working hard at it and it's nothing against the teachers, the administration. But remote has fairly my experience has not been, optimal at this point. So that's my Prescott.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: I think also we should also note, like this conversation talking about students who are inside of the quarantine, the current 14 or 7 day, where they're fully anticipating on

[R11056-140] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: do more of it. And I think, I mean, I'll, I'll say that I know everybody's working hard at it and it's nothing against the teachers, the administration. But remote has fairly my experience has not been, optimal at this point. So that's my Prescott.
TEXT> I think also we should also note, like this conversation talking about  students who are inside of the quarantine, the current 14 or 7 day, where they're fully anticipating on returning to school. I mean, myself and a couple of my other friends were a part of this, and it was, and is it a okay,  I'm.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm signaling Carolyn that I see her.

[R11056-142] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm signaling Carolyn that I see her.
TEXT> Okay. Sorry, sorry. We we really fell behind in multiple classes, and today it was a real shock going inside of some of my classes and seeing that they've already started chapter seven on something and, not getting that much  assignments. And it was personally just really,  really, really hard in order in order to try and get back to, to where things are. And so I think  when we're talking about this conversation, not just talking about, you know, the the students who are fully in remote or fully in person, there is this middle line of people who are anticipating and going back in.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think the difference is that when you have kids in and out, that makes a huge difference. We're talking about all kids being remote, so the teacher will teach

[R11056-144] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board (Stevens High School) | 2020-12-02
PREV> Unidentified: that makes a huge difference. We're talking about all kids being remote, so the teacher will teach to all of our kids versus having some of the kids in the classroom doing the class work, and some of you on Google, so it'll be together.
TEXT> I mean, like when it comes to like the two week break, if hypothetically, you know, people come in with cases and we have to have another round,  those students are going to have to go back in to inside of the seven day or 14 day, depending on what the CDC qualification is. And that's, could end up proving harmful, especially when second semester is wrapping up or first semester. Sorry.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Carolyn.

[R11056-146] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member; attending remotely | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Carolyn.
TEXT> I just there's a couple of things. My, I will always air on the side of safety for both students and teachers primarily. You know, we have to keep everybody safe, teachers, if we don't keep them safe. And it's already been stated that principles are teaching some classes. I worry with the, severe rise in numbers that it will permeate into our population no matter what. You know, what we're told to do or not to do. I think a couple of the teachers have clarified during the chat that if they go fully remote for the two weeks, then all of their attention would be to the remote learning. So I think that's a big factor in this discussion. And I would really like to hear from a couple principals on the fact that they're having to teach classes and how they're affected. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Principal Lewis. If you're available to speak or other principals, if you have time.

[R11056-159] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead. Mike.
TEXT> I had one point that I missed earlier that I wanted to clarify. I also had members of the community  expressed to me that this this specific point wasn't made yet, that many of them have been waiting for months for the opportunity to travel, to see a loved one or something like that over, out of jurisdiction, so to speak, to come back and that they could do that. And, and frankly, the, the people that approached me on that are people who do follow the rules in that type. So I wanted to make that point. We did make that expressly. And and I think very authentic and clear points are stated about the progress with the remote teaching. So, other schools that have maybe had a 1 to 1 initiative a couple of years ahead of us, we are fledgling in that rolling it out this year. Staff and students have done  an amazing job adaptively. But but to your point, and I think I'm just restating or echoing Principal Barry here, but, if everyone is on if everyone is synchronous, and that's what we were always striving to and I, I call this and I hate to admit it, but we strive to it kind of the gold standard in our region.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think Kearsarge is at a point where their, their mantra is that they're remote in person, meaning they they go every day, but they're ready to pivot on the

[R11056-162] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-12-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mike Patron has a question.
TEXT> I'm curious. We're seeing the number for the remote students at the high school. Do we know the number for the elementaries CMS and,
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They they've gone.

[R11056-166] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Petrin's early motions and | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: would be my impression of it. And I also think some of them are more, the higher up that you are in, in via grade level, the more appropriate is and the more you're ramping up for that expectation for college in the workplace anyway.
TEXT> So I think there's that's a natural  situation I want to be clear at this point has been made several times by board members, principals. And they'll they'll echo that as and we'll get to that when we go forward after after kind of, you know, this vote on this item. We are we are not advocating at after this to have a one size fits all for grade level. We feel that  the middle and high are particularly the high over the middle.  Are more inclined to go remote are not that it's it's still no substitute for the real McCoy the old way and the blended environments. But, but it is easier on them, and I think that's why they're gravitating towards it. And if I had that, and I'd like to ask more questions and maybe get more students on and maybe put it out, maybe a survey and Prescott can take the lead of that with his peers in the schools. But, I do think it's, it's it's helping out my my suspicion, based on our most recent contact tracing,  is kids are doing a lot of things in the community, balancing the grades, the jobs and everything else. That would be my that's my theory.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Or the discussion other.

[R11056-179] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2020-12-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: longer period of time. That's that's it. We wouldn't we wouldn't have brought it to you if we didn't as a team. You know, in the field every day, observing the kids think it was worthwhile. I promise you that. We wouldn't do that, Rebecca.
TEXT> Thanks. Someone made a really good point at being a. Someone who works at a school and who has children who attend school. You're expecting all the teachers to go into the building to do remote learning. What about the teachers who have children at home? So that's one question. The other comment is, I actually really like what they're saying about if we're going to be serious and we're going to be proactive right now, then let's work through April vacation or February or something like that. Makes complete sense to me, 100%. So just something to think about. But what about what about staff with kids?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And so we we know and I spoke to Superintendent Landry and Fall Mountain this morning driving in. We all, you know, speak regularly and asked exactly those questions. How

