[R13420-485] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reports on the clerk vacancy, police MOU and gr | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: follow it. Yeah. So, that's the behind. That's what it looks like. If you've ever been. That's what it looked like from us. I happen to be right next to Principal Barry. I liked that shot. And, of course, you can see Sully down there.
TEXT> If you. I don't know if the pointer works on this, but you can,   the or the comfort dog who's in the schools all the time. I tried to get, you know, he literally walked with the diploma in his mouth. That was fairly priceless. I don't. It was it was, it was. It was wonderful.  To see the students and to hear their their speeches and hopes and dreams and particularly  how they,  you know, every everyone spoke about the challenges over the past couple of years and the triumphs. And they really,  as a class, had a lot to endure. And they were very resilient bunch. And  it, it it it was awesome. I don't know how else to say it. I absolutely,  liked it. I like the run up. I even liked  their spirit with the, the Frank when they ousted us out of our own parking lot. They they were good sports and respectful and and we really appreciated that. We appreciate them and all their accomplishments. So that's, that's that's my feel good  part on this. And this will be posted and put out. You can see  the program on there of where students. Went to school in there and there were  plans. That's what I alluded to earlier.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They do a nice job with that. And then they follow up with the actual profile after. So, yeah, many kids off to we heard a lot of times we,

[R13420-486] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reports on the clerk vacancy, police MOU and gr | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: their accomplishments. So that's, that's that's my feel good part on this. And this will be posted and put out. You can see the program on there of where students. Went to school in there and there were plans. That's what I alluded to earlier.
TEXT> They do a nice job with that. And then they follow up with the actual profile after. So, yeah, many kids off to  we heard a lot of times we, we talk on the academic side, I know one of the wonderful things that get to meet them at the superintendents luncheon, a bunch of students and  so many kids have amazing jobs right out of  actually related to the tech and the training they've had. And they're just 20, 25 bucks an hour right out, 18 years old, starting starting their path. Well, they maybe pick away at school or but that's that's a side that we don't hear as often as we should, but just incredibly successful,  you know, and  in off, off and on their way. So it was it was great. So, yeah. Nothing, nothing but feel good tonight. Yeah. So and see the eighth, the eighth grade at unity two knowing I'm not sure how many or which kids are coming down here from there. But we always have the students from unity  often go,  they go to Newport, they go to Fall Mountain, and they come to us primarily. They may be one going to Santa. I think I heard that this year. Three okay. That's good. Three of the eight. So that's that's good. So yeah. No. So it was really a wonderful.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Questions for the superintendent.

[R13444-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [83-94]; c | 2022-06-16
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Yes, that's. That's fine. Okay, back to the agenda. Excuse me. Citizens comments. Okay. Hearing none, we'll move to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Sure. So I have  my report is the same things that earlier.  Yesterday. Three meetings this week here. Okay. So so the, it's all about graduations.  What? I, I have the  in between last where I was so proof of where I was for the Claremont board.  When I came down the middle is the,  is the Marshall's  coming escorting the eight unity students, their eighth grade graduation from last night, and then the upper, upper right. Excuse me, is  the play that they put on after their  presentations,  and I have more slides on that. I'll show you  the tail.  The first I have  also kind of the the high jinks of the senior prank.  Where they, they came into our parking lot and parked funny and took up our spots. And I think that cone was either my spot or Mary Ellen spot  in in  typical spots. And they this was all pre-arranged. We knew they were going to do it, and we didn't know they'd be as creative as they were. But it was. It was all in good fun.  And then you can see that's the the inside as of the Dow, you can see the I'm sorry, I'm looking at it here, but you can't see it there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I don't know if you can make out that at home, but you can see the the volleyball game in action right there. I went to the copy or to

[R13444-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [83-94]; c | 2022-06-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: were the, the capstone projects for the unity, the eighth graders, where they just fresh off of their DC trip. They studied where they were going and what they were doing. Before they went, they went to Arlington Cemetery. They went to the Holocaust Museum.
TEXT> And each student had to, in that same auditorium, go up there and tell exactly what they did. They were scripted. They were presentations. But that's a lot at that age. And they did a great job with it. So  that was  impressive. And I don't want to see what they're doing next, next year as well. This one young man was particularly  impressive at the end with, how he's addressing. He's not looking at cards or anything like that. He really nailed it.  In the significance of Arlington Cemetery. And then this is I, I believe some of this is a still from the the one act play that they original one act play that the students wrote along with the advisor.  In, in the, music and art teacher. They came up with all the ideas they were.  Mr. Hathaway did the,  did the dialog, but it was all from their ideas and things like that, and it was neat to see how that was. It was cute about about how they they go. It was. I thought it was very well done. It was nice to see that at that level that that kind of interdisciplinary and student led  event.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it was it was wonderful. So that's all I have for, for in its we've had field days this week and I know that they had similar stuff in

[R13444-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [83-94]; c | 2022-06-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there's no best practice.
TEXT> I don't know that there's you would have to ask them. I do know for the size that we are. And I talked to  Lisa Witt, who's the superintendent. Monadnock. And we're almost identical in size and, and, but I don't think we are in the number of, of,  we're, we're, we're  almost identical in the number of students, but I don't think we are in the distribution of, of, of, of geography in catchment. But I, I don't know who the perfect comp would be for us, you know.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: But there are needs within the district that we've talked about.

[R13521-34] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: can see I can't with. This numbers, these are all going to be posted as well. Activities that are going on throughout the community in the second year of our partnership with the community center, going very well in the kids having a great time.
TEXT> Front end of the day is loaded with academics in recovery types of things. The afternoon is a lot of fun activities and events throughout the community, and museums and other trips are. Some of the field trips are Saint-Gaudens  vents. They went to Maple Links for for bowling. They were at the Shire today. They're going to the polar caves like they did last year. Echo Lee center for at  Lake Champlain as well. And  although local trips,  the tech center summer program. Okay, so 4 or 5 programs,  in field career field trips. So. Well, in American  precision, against the grain.  Madrid and and bridges. And  you see,  Mr. Burnett, some junior  woodworkers there to be doing a great job  robotics with Mr. Pope and Miss Flaps. And Mr. Pope is still around, folks. Okay, so tell California if you could have that in a way. All right. So, chef de  making kids having fun to cook from scratch. And I heard that was delicious. I tried to get over there. I didn't make it at the middle school.  Same thing.  They they went out. Middle school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Similar to the high school program focusing on kids credit recovery. So that kids finishing complete on time. So, principal, when we open it up to the community, I think

[R13521-48] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair recognizes 'Go ahead. Heather | 2022-07-20
PREV> Mimi: Yes. And I also think that's very sad as well. But it's not the point of my presentation today. So yeah.
TEXT> What's the difference in students Edmonton. Summer school this year compared to years. Is it double. So it's.
NEXT> Mimi: So I this is my only my second year doing summer school. Secondly, speak to my last year's experience. I would say we there were more kids invited this year,

[R13521-49] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: What's the difference in students Edmonton. Summer school this year compared to years. Is it double. So it's.
TEXT> So I this is my only my second year doing summer school. Secondly, speak to my last year's experience.  I would say we there were more kids invited this year, but I think we've had less a ten so far. I think that's due to a few things. I think there is burnout with a lot of kids. I think a lot of families said we just need a break. They need these three months off to just recover and recoup and get ready for school. And like I said, you know, there's there's custody agreements. So I think it's been kind of a mixture of those things.  But, you know, we've had a steady stream of kids and they'll, we will have kids at the high school up until the end of summer school. You know, because there are kids would come every day and they get their work done, but they just have a lot of work to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: You said that you had 157 kids from the elementary. How many?

[R13521-50] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member asking about elementary summer enrollment  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Mimi: of kids and they'll, we will have kids at the high school up until the end of summer school. You know, because there are kids would come every day and they get their work done, but they just have a lot of work to do.
TEXT> You said that you had 157 kids from the elementary. How many?
NEXT> Mimi: Elementary.

[R13521-60] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Mimi: Thank you. You're welcome. Happy to be here.
TEXT> Next item I have, and I can probably see it better from here I think. Okay. So we had our first  end of the year wrap up administrative retreat with the SO16. We had a, you know,  after we had our introductions and, kind of goal setting. We talked. I can't see that as well. I'm. I'm bluffing. Okay.  So we we talked about the elementary restructure,  the school council implementation and how we're going to do that.  The, the  targeted school data goals of which that they're going to have three. That's for the for their goal setting up follow up with them in the summer.  As well into the fall. In the review, that's the actual agenda. We had a discussion about paraprofessionals and shifting them. Student assistant teams, of which you can see one of the artifacts already from the high school.  Mr. Pratt has been busy updating and creating a manual  for those. And also, they're doing that in the other.  Schools as well.  We talked about  the academic centers and the staffing and how how  that was going is to be as a plan that would result in that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Previously, we split up in the afternoon in both days and did elementary restructuring, kind of study. And, and also with the schedule looking at what we would do broke.

[R13521-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: about the elementary summer program. Are we able to track academic gains that have been achieved with the program? Because I think the canvas is are two meanings. Point. If we can actually demonstrate that the program has measurable gains, then I think we could.
TEXT> And I'm pretty sure they have  pre and post in the elementary program, the the middle school and high school of  high schools, obviously for credit recovery, middle school is for just kind of open ended,  some, some arts, but also just for  tutoring and kids who are. Anyway, it's open to anyone  who who can get their in the tutoring that they need. So but we do I know they had pre and post so they did the first year as well.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And where are we with hiring and where are gaps? I know we were concerned in our last meeting about how the staff, the academy at the, the three academies

[R13521-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report after the cha | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: want to say they're certified in two things, they want to try another thing. So there's a lot of movement there, but we're, we're, we're, you know, we still have a a few weeks left and, and we're, we're on it like we normally are.
TEXT> We also have reserve plans like we  often do,  if we have to move someone, for example,  from a title one into a classroom, I will always do. You know, we'll focus on the,  the classroom first in terms of, of of staffing and having people in front of students. So instead of pull out remediation type of things. So we're not we're not panicking yet. You know, we're guardedly optimistic. But things are we're on schedule or.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Scheduled to be able to staff for the new schedule.

[R13521-85] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-ID [148], ASR 'Michael Kosky'; i | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: Under discussion and action items, item number one is our assistant superintendent update. All right. Welcome. Thank you. Yeah. Great.
TEXT> So my name is Michael Kosky, and I'm happy to be here and looking forward to the opportunity to  to work in this new role. I, spent the past seven years in Windham.  I guess I've been mispronouncing it for many years and calling it Windham, but the folks who grew up there called one team.  As the science director. And as Mike kind of alluded to, I had the pleasure of losing a chemistry teacher in September. And so I ended up teaching chemistry last year, along with doing supervision and, curriculum work. So have been in the classroom.  With for six of those seven years, for one reason or another, teaching a class.  My, my focus is, has been and,  expect to continue to be on instruction. Curriculum is important, but a bad curriculum delivered well will produce a lot of student gains,  whereas a great curricula delivered poorly  doesn't do that. And so,  we're really going to focus on instructional practice and  coaching teachers and giving them opportunities to grow and practice and and develop their skill set.  And so really looking forward to that opportunity.
NEXT> Michael Koski: I my own practice is to try to be in classes frequently. You can you can tell a lot about a classroom in just a few minutes. And then the

[R13521-132] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (Whitney says 'So Josh has one more' [21 | 2022-07-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Change that had to be part of the second.
TEXT> It wasn't on this email.  One of them. I'll just quickly go through them. So one repeals the requirement for notarized form to be exempt from immunization.  One requires parental consent for any school medical or dental treatment or oral health programs. The districts now need a policy that requires nonpublic or home educated students access to district programing. This one's weird.  Boards are required to permit students to bring water bottles to school and may enact disciplinary policy for the misuse of water bottles. And I'm not joking that that was a Senate bill.  But I don't think we need to change anything about our policies regarding that, because I don't think anyone's telling them we can't. Student IDs now need to have the National Suicide Prevention  Lifeline listed on each ID.  Again, that's not a policy change. The. There's some modifications to the definition of a child with disability changing from until age 21 to until the 22nd birthday. And then the last one is, in relation to HB 1178, which,  it prevents state like enforcement from prohibits the state from enforcing any federal statute, regulation, or presidential executive order that restricts or regulates the right of the people to keep and bear arms. I don't think that changes anything. The district.  But the New Hampshire School Board Association is going to release  more sample policies. So we'll have them to reference. And I think there's three max that we need to change before the school year starts.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And so one attorney, Will Phillips, who will be there someday, is the policy person for the suit. So and he part of the agenda can be in things for

[R13521-138] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2; presenter for the Sugar River Valley RTC vis | 2022-07-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: I'd like to read it. The mission of the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center Vision Group is to research, develop, and recommend best practices that maximize beneficial outcomes for all stakeholders of the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center facility and its CTE programs.
TEXT> Okay. So so now we agree on what our mission is. How are we going to do it?  And  the purpose of this effort is again to say, where are we today? Kind of analyze what have we got?  What are the number of programs? What types of programs are they? What is it we have? Number two, what do we want to be in the future? How do we see it changing, improving, increasing, decreasing. Whatever. And three, how do we get there? We've got to have a roadmap to get from where we are now to what our vision is. And  we need to have support from the school board, from businesses, parents, students, taxpayers.  All of those important stakeholders. Okay. Let's go to the next one is the vision for the next steps. Again, identifying where we are now.  We want to conduct stakeholder analysis again with students, parents, administration,  school board, taxpayers, employers.  And identify needs, concerns and goals of these various groups and review the strategic plan and needs assessment and see where this all fits in. And this next step is where do we want to be in the future and how do we get there.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Again, some of the topics to be considered. Again, these are just examples. It's not all inclusive, but we hope to clearly these are many of the key topics that

[R13521-139] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2; presenter for the Sugar River Valley RTC vis | 2022-07-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: And identify needs, concerns and goals of these various groups and review the strategic plan and needs assessment and see where this all fits in. And this next step is where do we want to be in the future and how do we get there.
TEXT> Again, some of the topics to be considered. Again, these are just examples. It's not all inclusive, but we hope to clearly these are many of the key topics that we have to address.  As you can see, it's number and types of programs student utilization, staffing, adequate staffing and funding for the programs.  Integration with middle and high school  adult education offerings. Again, complete use of the facility. And  and we need to produce a report, a plan that the taxpayers can support. Clearly, you need to support it. And then we want the taxpayers to buy in as well.  And how do we get there? Well, we hope to discover, summarize and recommend  to the board.  What we find out and what we see as important steps going forward. Okay.  So we talk  about mission, vision and fusion. This is the third step. Fusion putting it all together.  We have to evaluate all the information we gather.  And see okay, what's relevant and what's,  what's not really as important as some of the other information, but look at all of the information that we gather. Identify areas of consensus and of concern both. You know, there's some consensus people agreeing that this should be an area and and what are our concerns? And then develop the recommendations to help us move forward.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. So in summary, why are we here tonight? We're here to number one update the school board and the greater community. What's been done and what where the group

[R13521-172] Unidentified | Unidentified - speaker on the 2017 RTC strategic plan [285-289] (commi | 2022-07-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So I think what David was.
TEXT> Referring to as a strategic plan, and there was one done here that Alex has shared with all of us. He sent a lot of documentation, but it was very complete, done in 2017 and is asking questions that you pointed out to. So, you know, as a overview, a student survey analysis of the labor market, post-secondary articulation, dual credit opportunities, a budget narrative recommendations and researching,  things to do would be a student. Surveys from eighth and 12th  year students attending Stevens High School, in middle school, in elementary school, and then a review of the program offered through the New Hampshire Technical Community College System that provides students with  industrial recognition certificates. And,  you know, what's the need in the community? So what is what are the what are the viable jobs that pay? Well, that we should teach here, that students would, would, would grab. And it can't be just the members of the committee making that decision. You really need to reach out professionally and do a very in-depth survey. So not wasting tax dollars times and efforts. And the other thing we need to do is revisit this, this strategic plan that we did five years ago.
NEXT> Unidentified: What worked, what didn't. Why. All right. And so that we can come up with something even better than than what was done before. So personally, I don't feel like

[R13521-238] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Which I've done before. And they've been quick with that. But I was unable to do that, you know, at this level and consistently that's also my like, you know, I don't know, my hope is like you said, to get just a general credit card or something or something that I can use at, you know, BJ's wherever, and then just turn the receipts in like I have been doing. Again, they had it for card as fine for us this summer because, you know, we're doing the numbers, so I get it. But just kind of looking ahead to next summer,  you know, we know what can we do to kind of go with that. And just one quick note on the graduation rate. We do have a few seniors finishing up for summer school.  So graduation rate really isn't finalized because we had a few kids finishing up.  Each year, the school council puts together the school profile that kind of lays out where kids are going to school. How many went where you a workforce, military, whatever, further education? We usually work on that like when we're back in August. So I would say you guys would have that probably by the late September meeting, whatever that is.  But it's not updated yet for this year just because we don't have the final numbers for things yet.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Yeah.

[R13521-253] Mimi | Stevens High School summer school coordinator (chair introduces 'Mimi  | 2022-07-20
PREV> Unidentified: Grateful for them for sure.
TEXT> I would say looking for the summer camp for elementary kids after Esther funds run out. Like I would look into the because I seem very happy and grateful to work with Claremont. I know they've given money to a lot of Claremont things before. So definitely good resource. I think for our town to have.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Their name comes up frequently for donations that they've made, over the years. So they've, they've done a lot for.

[R13556-91] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: And how does that help the high school?
TEXT> It helps the high school because as you know, from from the from the committee we're now we're having we're, we're piloting right for next year.  The eighth grade coming up to,  to try the rotation of courses here at the tech. And those students, once they have, once they're in the schedule. And as we fix the schedule as well, they will  have an exposure to it here much more, intensely than they they  had just at a camp or randomly so that they can all select it, have the exposure. And as we're in the process of looking and trying to  change the schedule so that a schedule fits all three, then that process of getting the sample, it's it's a very common  way, way to do that as an elective. And you so that you drive the enrollment up.  And that's, that's we we felt as administrators that would be the best place to put that.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R13556-103] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Anyone else from the public? All right. Seeing that, I'm going to close citizens comments and move on. Summer, our student rep is not here. So we are on to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> So the the  the first slide, as you see on there is taken from the field, as they say at the I believe that was from the the principals meeting  of the district. They all attended the principals conference in Portsmouth and they started talking about data. We we spoke about this  at our  admin retreat  as well as  our first two had been retreats, and it is a thematic of what we're going to be talking about today  and what we're going to be presenting to staff into the board. In terms of the curriculum team assessment and  the overall theme of of growth, student growth in measurement for this year. So that's that. Let me see over here. I also  am excited to introduce our new newest member of the of the team. She was almost official at the last meeting, but not quite there. So we we didn't have our stuff in time to do that, but I like to welcome  doctor Heather Pelkey to the  to come up and say a few words. And I as you can see, I'll just I'll speak  for the folks at home. It might be tough to read that.  Doctor Pelkey just finished her her doctoral program  in  Stem leadership.  Through the American College of Education  in Indianapolis. She is a master's in writing as a writing specialist.  A  bachelor's of science as well. And social social science education.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Lifelong teacher and and coach, and a jug professor at Keene State. Teaching methods classes for the four teachers. Just all about teaching. And we're absolutely thrilled to have her

[R13556-105] Heather Pelkey | Curriculum specialist, SAU 6 (new hire; 'Doctor Pelkey' introduced by  | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Lifelong teacher and and coach, and a jug professor at Keene State. Teaching methods classes for the four teachers. Just all about teaching. And we're absolutely thrilled to have her join us tonight in on our team.
TEXT> So thank you so much. I'm excited to be part of Claremont and to get to work with the teachers and to get to know the students and help them to make growth this year. Thrilled to have you. Thank you. Welcome. Thanks.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Thank you.

[R13556-108] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Heather Pelkey: Thank you.
TEXT> The next slide. And I'm going to try to do this justice. And it's been  and I also want to preface this I think the team itself has had maybe seven days together so far.  But those seven days and I've  been fortunate enough to do some of that planning with  them and around them and just hear  the ideas. And I also wanted to focus on what we've been talking about with our summer, our retreats. In looking at I include an agenda. We had  four real focus areas  to take away that I want to present to you tonight from our retreat and then our recent. We wrapped up the year as well.  The School  curriculum Assessment and Support initiative. That's that's in the process of being reconstructed.  And  that is one the elementary restructuring that we that we spoke about previously. We are continuing  that committee,  and we're also looking for community members as well as co-chairs. And we'll talk about that. The scheduling committee for the middle school, high school and tech schedule that I  just referred to,  previously  with Miss Crawford to try to  make sure that we can max out that schedule and get more kids taking more classes and more time on learning and a school safety planning committee, which,  it would be we can't really have we can have adjunct members and people can come in on that, but that is
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: a a team. I have met two times already with a new chief of police, Wilmot, and came to me was and I I'll, I'll share this because he was

[R13556-111] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: know, committees and the like, and that's going to be reconstituted and revamped. And we want to have the people who did the last work with that and then reach out to new people as well and look, and I'll let them speak to that.
TEXT> But  to summarize the restructuring one, that's the next step in  from central office.  Ben Nester, Richard Seaman, in  all the principles are  on that. They wanted to have staff members.  About four one of an odd number. Just just in case that's what they in.  That's what they they came up with parents and guardians and community members to, to get a cross-section. I thought it was a good structure. We're doing the same thing. We already have two committees.  Constituted  along a couple of years running, although  more recently on the scheduling committee.  Middle school has their own committee, and high school has their own committee, and they've already started those. But we also are looking for some parents, some students as well. Middle and high. I didn't I didn't finish the whole whole sheet. I apologize. I knew. So you see some of the new names there, Mister Harrington, a new assistant principal at the high school.  Nico Oaks, who you all know  from her work with the tech, is now  the assistant principal at the middle school.  In in. Sue Schroeder, who has been great with that scheduling committee. And remember, prior to coming  back to to unity for the district, she was the middle school principal in Newport,  working with the schedule for the tech Center and the very, very instrumental with that in the planning with that. As well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, that's that's what I, that's what they presented. And I just talk about it now. But we can talk about that when we get to if you're going to

[R13556-113] Michael Koski | SAU 6 administrator leading the curriculum team (ASR 'Mr. Costa'; Assi | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: those. So I just put that out again for after the next one. I will let, I'd like to defer to the curriculum team. I'm so excited. To work with you. Oh, you have it, right? Sure. Yeah. Better than myself, Mr. Costa. Great. So,
TEXT> I theme for the years that all students show growth. And so we're going to start by trying to get some measurements across the entire district, what are called universal assessments. So we have a baseline. We get to  a mark of where everybody's starting. And then what we want to see is by year end that everybody's shown improvement in the areas of math and science, math and literacy. And so in this first column, we have some examples of data collection tools that we'd like to use. Some of them already exist in the district and and have been used before, but just we haven't used them consistently across the entire district.  And so I ready is one of those products is a literacy ready reading readiness  tool. And  Georgia numeracy projects is,  a way to  measure a student's understanding of number sense and their mathematical understanding.  And then for 6 to 12, we have some other examples there of  literacy and  literacy assessments, NWA and power up.  There are not as well. I'm not sure I know of any, measurement tools for social studies that are kind of standardized and normed across the country.
NEXT> Michael Koski: And there's there's fewer for science. So we decided to focus on Ela and math because that's where we have the tools to collect the data from. And without the

[R13556-114] Michael Koski | SAU 6 administrator leading the curriculum team (ASR 'Mr. Costa'; Assi | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Koski: 6 to 12, we have some other examples there of literacy and literacy assessments, NWA and power up. There are not as well. I'm not sure I know of any, measurement tools for social studies that are kind of standardized and normed across the country.
TEXT> And there's there's fewer for science.  So we decided to focus on Ela and math because that's where we have the tools to collect the data from. And without the tools, we won't be able to, we won't be able to show students improvement without any kind of a measure for them. So in, in literacy, we, we and in math, we want both of those columns, all the students and readers, all the students illiterate and and all the students are math people. There's there's not math people and not math people. Everybody can do math. And so we're starting with that as a, as an  assumption. And then here are some, some  curriculum tools that we will put in place in in those two subject areas we will have common assessments K to 12. So  the end of a unit in fourth grade Ela, everybody in fourth grade at the end of that unit gets the same test. And then we can start to have conversations  within the school and across schools. What which classes showed a lot of growth. Did those teachers do something slightly different so that the process of instruction is up to the teacher. But at the end of the unit, we have a common measurement point to be able to make comparisons. And so we can we can use those measurement points to guide instruction in the next unit if anything needs to be taught.
NEXT> Michael Koski: And so we have some of these, kind of proven national curricula that are aligned with the Common Core standards, aligned with the standards. And we've listed them there. They

[R13556-115] Michael Koski | SAU 6 administrator leading the curriculum team (ASR 'Mr. Costa'; Assi | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Koski: to the teacher. But at the end of the unit, we have a common measurement point to be able to make comparisons. And so we can we can use those measurement points to guide instruction in the next unit if anything needs to be taught.
TEXT> And so we have some of these,  kind of proven national  curricula that are aligned with the Common Core standards, aligned with the standards. And we've listed them there. They will be piloted by several teachers at the different grade levels to see how how the teachers feel about them. Is it something they like? Is it is it useful? Is it is it cumbersome? You know, we rather than,  say, this is the highest rated program, we're going to make it fit.  It may not fit, it might be perfect, but we're going to pilot them to find out. And so we're going to give collect some input from the teachers to find those things out.  At grades 6 to 8 and 9 to 12, in literacy, we have  this New Zealand  that  pulls information  from all different curricular areas. And teachers can can use that to  supplement. And then it also gives some reading guidance, some literacy guidance for the teachers to to kind of find out what their students can comprehend and, and what reading level they kind of can work with.  And then we have the competency standards for 9 to 12. And again those would be common across the courses.
NEXT> Michael Koski: So all the algebra one classes teaching the same standards using the same common assessments, how the teacher teaches that unit is up to the teacher. But at the end

[R13556-116] Michael Koski | SAU 6 administrator leading the curriculum team (ASR 'Mr. Costa'; Assi | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Koski: for the teachers to to kind of find out what their students can comprehend and, and what reading level they kind of can work with. And then we have the competency standards for 9 to 12. And again those would be common across the courses.
TEXT> So all the algebra one classes teaching the same standards using the same common assessments, how the teacher teaches that unit is up to the teacher. But at the end we have a common mark point so that we can measure student progress.  And then there's some lists in the math problem about some other things. We really  just as a as a starting guess. And it's just a common issue, this idea of number sense. Do I know what a tense a tense places or a tense places? Do I understand large numbers and small numbers? What does a fraction mean. So this this idea of number sense. And so we want to emphasize that because that seems to be a tripping point for for a lot of students. And then we're going to  have some, some pilots illustrative math pilot math and focus is what has been used in the past. We'll be using that again this year, but we're going to be comparing it to illustrative math. And then we'll be using  the competency standards at the high school.  And so it will have several different instructional, curricula that are being tested out at the different grade levels.
NEXT> Michael Koski: And by having some, some common points, we can see which ones are effective, get some teacher feedback, and then we'll be making some decisions over the course of the

[R13556-165] Unidentified | Mixed short interjections from several people; see overrides | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I'm not hearing from anyone, anywhere at the state level, that that's going to happen. So I want to be emphatically put that out there. We don't expect it to change. We're not, you know, so that's no news is good news right now. So.
TEXT> Yes, of course. Just for parents if kids are having sniffles at home. Yeah. Are they going to have to follow the same kind of.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's not it's not exactly the strict quarantine and the it's not like last year. And we are going to.

[R13556-185] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: Can we have a delineation of which of these nominations are funded?
TEXT> Yes. So and that's the distinction on the curriculum specialist. Those are as our positions.  Right now that's why Heather is in the Claremont Esser pool of funds.  In terms of Kerry cuts, eighth grade Dean of students. Is Essar funded? Jen received up to the dean of students is SR funded? Everyone else is replacement. Regular budget. I can come back to that. If it if it changes, I can get an update. I should I wish I had included that so because the the one there's three that I know of. What what could be is a partial. Just the caveat that the other deans of those works at the middle middle school. Some of the deans who were regular classroom teachers are now half dean, half  half  teacher and then some. In a couple of those, a couple of those could be the backfill for those teachers. So they I don't know that specifically each person to the name and the grade level in the middle school, but there may be half a position or a whole position in there. I can get that clarified and I'll get that out to you.
NEXT> Unidentified: So are we back? So we're back filling the folks that are currently working for the district to do the dean of students.

[R13556-186] Unidentified | Board member, Heather Whitney or Bonnie Miles (uncertain - the diarize | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So they I don't know that specifically each person to the name and the grade level in the middle school, but there may be half a position or a whole position in there. I can get that clarified and I'll get that out to you.
TEXT> So are we back? So we're back filling the folks that are currently working for the district to do the dean of students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's correct. So because.

[R13556-190] Unidentified | Board member, Heather Whitney or Bonnie Miles (uncertain - the diarize | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: how they're doing that in the academic center, in the middle school, in the high school. So there are no academic center teachers yet in the high school. We had one today signed that is in on this list because that just came in. So,
TEXT> So how will that work when the Esser funding goes away? So when dean of students, will that position will be absorbed into the district?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's right.

[R13556-194] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: easier to show it graphically which I can't. Okay. So exactly who's going in and who's going out. But they they are all if they were on that list that I presented before, they are coming out those all those sections of the PhDs. So.
TEXT> Can  and maybe simple answer the difference between the dean of students for eighth grade and the eighth grade academic dean. What's the different role there?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: One one is for student management and one is, on the I don't I don't know that that's the accurate grade level, to tell you the truth. I want I

[R13556-195] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Can and maybe simple answer the difference between the dean of students for eighth grade and the eighth grade academic dean. What's the different role there?
TEXT> One one is for student management and one is,  on the I don't I don't know that that's the accurate grade level, to tell you the truth. I want I want to follow up with.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That okay. Anything else? I feel like we need to vote on the amendment first. Correct. All right. So Steven made a motion and then amended the motion. Frank seconded

[R13556-198] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: I opposed.
TEXT> All right. Thank you. Thank you.  We received the student handbooks in our email. Anybody get a chance to look through those review?
NEXT> Unidentified: I looked.

[R13556-259] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Anything else on that Frank.
TEXT> The only thing I'd add is that  one of the things we've had to bring the  other people up kind of up to speed on,  because the numbers, if you look at the raw numbers of the of the people who are coming here, it actually looks pretty good that there are a lot of kids coming and going through the doors. But a lot of those,  kids are, participating in the culinary quarter, quarter elective courses. So it kind of inflates the numbers. And,  and one of the issues with that is, is it's nice to have those as an exploratory, but Bonnie and I went to the senior luncheon, and just about every kid that I sat with it as I made my rotation around is Kurt was currently taking those courses and they were seniors. So I think that,  you know, so we had to explain that to some of the other committee members that yes, we in spite of the fact that it looks like there's a lot of kids coming through here.  We they really aren't in they aren't spread out in a lot of the different programs like we'd like to see.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So and I think it's because it's fun.

[R13556-265] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> But there were also some students who said that  they had to take some elective courses, and they didn't even know why they were taken them. So that was interesting.
NEXT> Unidentified: Little of.

[R14582-8] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: Hi. Hi.
TEXT> And right now we have reserve time for citizens comments. Do we have anybody that would consider themselves a citizen? No. So we're going to close citizens comments.  We have no student representative this evening. We have an agenda that I would like to make a motion to approve the agenda as written. If anybody would like to make a motion or any amendments.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Motion to approve the agenda.

[R14582-19] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator presenting the SHS handbook and rest | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: the kids to be aware of. It's kind of like we're moving from this is what we don't want you to do to eventually go into this is how we want you to react. So right now this is the discipline in the don't do.
TEXT> And we want to get to the point where this is what we want you to do. So when you see the restorative, the option at the end, all that is saying is like is there an option? Yes. But anytime a kid breaks the law, there's a serious offense. Those are the consequences. You know where we're saying, look, this is what we're holding you accountable. There are going to be consequences and it's going to be equitable. It's going to be the same for everybody down the road once things work out. And it has been maybe, you know, when you tied to these long term suspensions, the only reason we put RJ option on there is because we want to make sure before they come back, just like we do now, is that if it's appropriate and if the administration deems it's something we want to do before they come back, that we want to have those conversations to say, look, whether it's a conversation of expectations or tell them, yeah, you're back, but we still expect X, y, z from you while you're
NEXT> Unidentified: here based on what they did. Because a lot of times the law is going to trump over anything we do anyways. And anytime there's an assault, bullying, drugs, anything

[R14582-20] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator presenting the SHS handbook and rest | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: administration deems it's something we want to do before they come back, that we want to have those conversations to say, look, whether it's a conversation of expectations or tell them, yeah, you're back, but we still expect X, y, z from you while you're
TEXT> here based on what they did. Because a lot of times the law is going to trump over anything we do anyways. And anytime there's an assault, bullying, drugs, anything like that, it is what it is. Right here. We're saying this is this is what it is. But the only reason that RJ p option is there is because no matter what happens, whether they're breaking the law or something, we want to try the best we can to try to make it a learning experience so we can say, you're not just coming back, because chances are, if we don't have those conversations with them, that behavior is going to continue. It's never going to change. And most of the times the students, if you look over all the statistics at what we're looking at for restorative practices, it's the same with luck in probably about at Steven's, what I'm seeing is probably about 8% to 10% of the same kids over and over again. Those are the same kids who, you know, can usually become the dropouts. That's why we want to have that option when possible. So I'm I'm exactly with you. It's like, yes, this is I would say this right here. We're not at the restorative process yet is in the handbook. Yes. Because we want to start talking that language. But it's more it's a hybrid. It's like we got to get kids accountable first.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I bring a gun to school and I say, well, I don't want that. I'm going to. It says here that I can do a restorative justice option. So

[R14582-28] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator presenting the SHS handbook and rest | 2022-08-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: There's no time to say that.
TEXT> No, that's what options are. And if, for instance, this this is what this would it be. All students will be held to the same consequences based on the infractions they commit. Student Steven's High School has instituted the following progressive progressive discipline matrix in order to create an equitable response to student discipline. Some situations and when the student agrees to participate, students may have the option to participate in restorative justice. Please keep in mind that the option is not automatic. In the final decision to have the student participate will be left up to the school administration. But see, that's what restorative practice restorative justice is. There's no there's never whether when it was incorporated in the ten years restorative justice has been in school, there has never been either then or there's never have said you're going to do discipline or you're going to restore the practices. That's never been the premise behind restorative justice. It's that balance behind you have consequences. And once you conduct your consequences, we will look at tying the learning component to it. There was never a trade off.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I get all that, but I'm thinking of the teenage mind reading that that's just our parents.

[R14582-30] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator presenting the SHS handbook and rest | 2022-08-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: I get all that, but I'm thinking of the teenage mind reading that that's just our parents.
TEXT> But this is but this is the stack, the conversations. This is just the beginning that there are so many steps into doing what we need to do. You just can't throw restorative practices in and put it in a handbook and said, this is what we're doing. There are many different steps in every step along the way. It's having those conversations with the student body, the teachers and everything else. That's the blueprint. You just can't put it in a handbook and say, this is what it is. It's about communication and conversations and relationships, and you're not going to get that just by sticking it into a handbook and saying, look, no.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I get all that. I understand all of that. And I think it's I think it's a great thing for culture and climate, I do. I think it's fantastic, you

[R14582-31] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: everything else. That's the blueprint. You just can't put it in a handbook and say, this is what it is. It's about communication and conversations and relationships, and you're not going to get that just by sticking it into a handbook and saying, look, no.
TEXT> I get all that. I understand all of that. And I think it's I think it's a great thing for culture and climate, I do. I think it's fantastic, you know, where where a kid is disrupting a class and he's got to sit in front of a group of his peers and explain to them why he's causing it so other kids can't learn. I think that's fantastic. I just don't think it should even be anywhere on the page when it comes to a felony or a misdemeanor. I just don't even think it should be there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, it has to be because they they could they could be suspended long term suspension from the bull. The bull could say that. Or they could be expelled. If

[R14582-37] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Heather Whitney: Josh was first.
TEXT> If I'm  correct me if I'm wrong, the way I'm seeing it is, if I'm gonna, I don't know, I'm looking at. I'll do the weapon. What if they bring a weapon? Obviously, there's going to be law enforcement involved. And if they don't end up  expelled, they still need to have their place of learning. So I see that restorative justice piece of coming in. You know, I, for an example, maybe a couple of students who are in that class in a class with the child explaining how they felt, knowing that one of their peers had a weapon, and like, why, you know, trying to get to the root of the problem. I mean, it could be anything like, that's that's how I see it.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's not then we're never going to force the kid to do it. And we might say that, you know, this is, you know, the kid doesn't want to do

[R14582-38] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator presenting the SHS handbook and rest | 2022-08-24
PREV> Joshua Lambert: a class with the child explaining how they felt, knowing that one of their peers had a weapon, and like, why, you know, trying to get to the root of the problem. I mean, it could be anything like, that's that's how I see it.
TEXT> It's not then we're never going to force the kid to do it. And we might say that, you know, this is, you know, the kid doesn't want to do it. So what it is, what it is, it's it's more or less we always want to have that option to educate that students to change the behaviors. Because we don't the behavior is not going to change.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Whitney.

[R14582-51] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Michael Tempesta: all served with a, with a few tweaks and I but I know those who don't tune in, those who are on the fringe when they see this, they're going to look for the out and I, I, I hear you, Frank. Yeah I agree.
TEXT> What can one more, parking in the faculty parking lot?  It's I thought that was kind of vague. It said that students who parked there will  face consequences. And I think, again, I, I would go with kids that are old enough to drive. I would go with specificity. And, you may want to add, warning call home second offense towed at owner's expense. That would just rather than,  running into different people handling it different ways. I think consistency is really important that one, because obviously you've got several different monitors and you've got a system principals and you've got yourself and you want to make sure everybody's doing, I don't need to tell you, you know, but, everybody's doing it the same way. But I think there should be a real hard and fast.
NEXT> Unidentified: I was trying to see.

[R14582-55] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: Is it on the matrix?
TEXT> No, it's in the text somewhere. Right. Student parking by.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's something I did. I did see it, too. Frank.

[R14582-59] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: 44.
TEXT> Parking. Yeah. Student parking is not permitted in the staff parking lot.  Failure to park is designated. Result in consequences including, but not limited to loss of co-curricular privileges. I would add, towing.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, I know, but I understand that. But I think a lot of times if we're going trying to go from a place where we're telling kids what not to

[R14582-60] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator presenting the SHS handbook and rest | 2022-08-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: Parking. Yeah. Student parking is not permitted in the staff parking lot. Failure to park is designated. Result in consequences including, but not limited to loss of co-curricular privileges. I would add, towing.
TEXT> Yeah, I know, but I understand that. But I think a lot of times if we're going trying to go from a place where we're telling kids what not to do to what we expect them to do, there are some cases we do have those conversations. Could there are some kids who. Yeah, you know, so I just want to open up the conversations. If we automatically put it down there they're going to get total what have you. Sometimes it's you know, it's worth the conversation and say okay, but if you do x, y and Z it's like I'm just trying to get away from always, you know?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Well, it does say it in here, though. There's a sentence on page at the very top of page 45 that says students not parked in designated parking areas for

[R14582-61] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: we automatically put it down there they're going to get total what have you. Sometimes it's you know, it's worth the conversation and say okay, but if you do x, y and Z it's like I'm just trying to get away from always, you know?
TEXT> Well, it does say it in here, though. There's a sentence on page at the very top of page 45 that says students not parked in designated parking areas for students or without a parking permit may have their vehicle immobilized or towed.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's the S or TC, that's a tech center.

[R14582-77] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: I believe that it's my understanding that's how they always been. They've been waited as honors courses.
TEXT> And the classes will be considered. Is there a distinguishing between honors blacks? And I know there's a lax, but a lot of kids are taking classes remotely now, so.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just I don't know, I'd have to get the answer to that question. Okay. With all the different running stats and blacks and AP and stuff. I'd have to check

[R14582-87] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: Is that the one that says course knowledge, skills and applications? Yeah. Okay. That's gone.
TEXT> And then one other thing is that  policy JBAB, which is the transgender and gender nonconforming students. We only found that in elementary school handbook and not in Stevens High School or in  Claremont Middle School. And  on top of that, or in conjunction with that, I don't think we have a policy right now to  make  transgender kids that want to compete in athletics eligible for NH AA standards. So policy needs to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Have to check with Doug. I don't know if that's something we did.

[R14582-89] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in the chair's absence | 2022-08-24
PREV> Unidentified: Have to check with Doug. I don't know if that's something we did.
TEXT> There is a policy for NH A, which is separate from the policy that we have. So  just to make sure that we don't have students that want to participate, that are put on the back burner or  there's no clarity on  what the participation requirements will be for either Stevens or CMS.
NEXT> Unidentified: We'll get on that.

[R14582-100] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Heather Whitney: Second. Any discussion?
TEXT> I'd like to just put into this discussion on the Claremont Middle School Handbook that we do need to revisit the policy around athletics and trans student to the furthest handbook since it wasn't included.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And I spoke to Mike before the meeting about some grammatical areas that I had concerns about, and some phraseology in the introduction to citizenship. And I will talk to

[R14582-224] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2022-08-24
PREV> Heather Whitney: And so I think since Frank is going to be the only representative, then you're by default the the co-chair and liaison. All right. Moving on to other business. Do we have any other business? Josh Lambert is expressing an interest to discuss other business.
TEXT> We do have a pretty extensive trans student policy that does include a blurb about, you know. Interscholastic competitive sports teams. That's transgender. And gender nonconforming. Students shall be permitted to participate in interscholastic athletics in a manner consistent with their gender identity. So if that's enough, if you want.
NEXT> Unidentified: More.

[R14595-28] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Thank you.
TEXT> Anyone else for citizens comments at this time? All right. Seeing none, we're going to move on to.  Well, the student rep is not here tonight.  She had another obligation.  She'll be here on a regular basis once school really gets back into swing. So,  superintendents reports.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Superintendents report. I have sent. It out to you. So if you if you can see that at home and futures in the audience, I don't know if you can

[R14595-30] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And as you see the there's two pieces here. This is a classroom at Maple, I believe, on the left. And I know that's the art room in Maple. And you can see those gold frames if you see those up on the blue background.
TEXT> Those have to do with our initiative and a story that we'll talk about in here, which is the Dot by Peter Reynolds.  Next slide  all around that is  downstairs at that bluff.  And students doing other types of  activities all throughout. It was just  great to see,  this is a principal,  Pratt and his teachers and administrative team with the all school assembly. Talking about  expectations and handbooks,  in  their presentation. This is all all the first day we made the rounds.  You can see  those of you who've been in the first day, the difference between I like the juxtaposition of these two pictures  you see  entering  first graders, K and one  in Disney Elementary on the left, coming in, being greeted, escorted parents walking with students down to the rooms. And then you also see the difference in the middle school when it's between classes and it's, as we say, release the hounds time when they when they  clutter, just get back into the  back, into the swing of things in the hallways.  This is a scene from our teacher induction  that happened the week before, a couple of days of professional development.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the whole school teachers back the first day again, the kickoff. We're talking about the literacy piece that will talk about two. And I'll have some assistance from

[R14595-32] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: just kept that slide in there. From the previous presentation. What's happening? I don't know if you want to come up and highlight this stuff. You've done an amazing job orchestrating this with the Fatal Vision graph. So in know it better than I did.
TEXT> Are y'all doing good? It's good to see you guys again. We're really excited to be partnering with Fable Vision and our district initiative that every student makes growth this year. And so we're kicking off the school year with this fun activity through  four weeks of activities through Fable Vision. And it's all centered around the Dot book. I don't know if you're familiar with that, but it's just an A synopsis. It's about a little girl who does not like art class because they don't feel like they're good at art, and their teacher  has them just draw a dot, start with the dot on their paper, and that grows them into creating and being brave. So that's kind of the idea behind what we're doing with students this year, is we want them to just make one point of growth or 100 points of growth, whatever growth looks like for them this year. And that starts with being brave. So we're working around the books that Peter Reynolds has written to help  tie in the SL part. We have the Family engagement Night, which will be Monday night at Stephen's High School, where they'll watch the,  the films that they have prepared. It's a short 30 minute film, and then they'll do some activities with the Dot to help motivate and get parents involved in the in the process, as well as  students, and then in the  art classes and library classes.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: They'll be working with the activities that Fable Vision has for us week two next week. Fable vision will be here every day in the elementary schools to work with

[R14595-39] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: together to and we can just talk about these, basically, if you're sick, you stay home. These are the CDC recommendations. We said this before and people have asked, you know, where do we leave off before? Is it is it kind of the same?
TEXT> It's almost essentially the same as how we left off in May with a couple of really important exceptions. And these are on the,  excuse me, in that there's no there's no quarantining anymore.  Of things. It's five days in your back.  We haven't seen any.  We have some cases of of Covid  with staff and students that we know about, but we haven't seen any hard, you know,  out outbreaks or anything like that yet. And we're hoping that we don't.  But I just wanted to mention it because some people I, I wish we could completely forget about it, but it is a reality and but it is still very low in the area, so. And and that's all I have..
NEXT> Unidentified: Any questions?

[R14595-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Whitney Skillen: On the screen.
TEXT> Oh, that won't be on the screen. I'm just going from. I mean, it could be, but but the  but there's 100.  There were  135 students the first week on average, all the way through 139, 144 on the fourth week, 143 134 dropped off the last week, as you might expect.  And also I looked at the bussing. So there were five busses all throughout the town.  And  there there was one  on the outskirts of town that only took between 12 and 13 kids during the weeks. And then there was the in town bus that was somewhat more packed with about 30 type of thing,  and then  24 on the outskirts, but there were  the average of 104 bus riders a day, and then the other 35 or 40 kids were dropped. But it was consistent attendance all the way through. On average,  almost  of the 145 total kids for the  collective  at the max that I did the range,  the there was only it was about 96% attendance rate for the whole thing, even collectively. So it's pretty good. And I can share this with you as well. But yeah, it was it was pretty amazing to see and also see the notes of of how fine tuned it was for pickup of the individual. So most teachers had a different roster each week. Maybe let's say they had 13. They had like the same core ten.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But some came, some went the that's what I liked. How personalized the I mean, I'm the data geek or whatever, but you could see the individual attention to the

[R14595-54] Arlene Hopkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And you also had students from throughout Claremont attending. Is that correct?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the so yeah, the the extended year students attended and they, they, they had their own program, but they were they the mornings were more academic in the afternoons

[R14595-55] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Arlene Hopkins: And you also had students from throughout Claremont attending. Is that correct?
TEXT> So the so yeah, the the extended year students attended and they, they, they had their own program, but they were they the mornings were more academic in the afternoons were more social and other types of activities. So we wanted to make sure we didn't want to. We didn't want we wanted to make sure they had every opportunity they could have.
NEXT> Arlene Hopkins: It has to be fun in order to get that 96% attendance rate. So I understand.

[R14595-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Arlene Hopkins: It has to be fun in order to get that 96% attendance rate. So I understand.
TEXT> The, the, the s y kids, there were only two or 3SY kids per class okay on there. So that number was really low.
NEXT> Arlene Hopkins: So right from your review of the pre and post data, did you see growth in the academics? For the students who attended.

[R14595-75] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Can.
TEXT> We continue to meet  we're kind of, I don't know how to say it, but it's it's been a bit of a struggle because we're trying to I think the committee is trying to find its its way. And,  there are there are people who want things to happen and there, and so part of it is, I think people learning what some of the obstacles are. We talked last meeting. We talked about how the schedule gets in the way of kids taking  CTE programs, particularly Newport kids coming here. And,  part of it is the differences between the schedules. Part of it, I think, is the the fact that we start school a week later than they do.  There's there's a fair amount of frustration, I think, within the committee that year after year after year, the calendars don't line up. So we heard that the other night,  I introduced the concept that sometimes,  one of the difficulties having worked in Newport for many years is that,  they are  a smaller school than us and they're, they're, they're lean. They share teachers with their with the middle school. High school teachers also teach middle school specials. So that results in a lot of singletons there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And a singleton is of course that there's only one section of. And when the computer does the schedule, it puts that class wherever the most kids can access it.

[R14595-113] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: educational services. If a kid is suspended or a student is suspended in excess of 20 cumulative days within a school year. I just think there's a lot of loss that happens before those. I mean, the kids that are being suspended are troubled kids.
TEXT> I think that  by alternative educational services, I don't think that means providing them with their assignments. I think alternate educational services is like a well, I'm thinking about, like my experience in North Carolina, like an alternative school for troubled kids. And I think that's what it's mentioning because in the in the sentence previous to that, it says all educational assignments available to the suspended student will be will be made, will be given to them.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So do they just get the assignments or do they actually get educational support when they're out of school?

[R14595-117] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Oh no. I'm thinking of reducing the number and enhancing services.
TEXT> I think I can see it's talking about a total of 20 days in the year. So I mean we're not talking consecutive days. So if student A has an issue for five days first quarter second quarter, third quarter, fourth quarter, it doesn't make sense for the district to provide additional services when they're getting their work through those five days. In an additional intervention. And it's if it was consecutive days I could see doing something differently.  But we're talking about it could be a three day here having a bad week. It could be a three day down. You know, there's there's lots of different instances before we need to go to, to, that type of intervention would be my thought.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But I.

[R14595-120] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> Give I give what both of you are saying. But I agree with Heather. So in the same the the pilot paragraph does discuss,  ensuring that the student is able to advance from the next to the next grade, given what they missed. And I get what you're saying in terms of how we need to cover to make sure that they're experiencing the growth, they need to go to the next grade. But I'm wondering if, let's say they get suspended for 20 cumulative days in the year during those during that time, they have educational assignments they complete, they complete them, get whatever grade they get. After that, I think there should be some kind of evaluation of whether they're whether they're going to be ready to promote to the next grade, and if they're not because they were suspended, they should go to summer school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, I'm just saying.

[R14595-126] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: Because I know that we're kind of implementing that program. And is this really aligning with the values.
TEXT> And I, I see it  a little differently.  So I think those protections are in there to make sure the student advances. Okay. So,  and there are also all kinds of things  in place anyway, evaluations and special manifestation determinations and seeing what the cause of the be. There's, there's a long  I think they just talked about the cumulative days and I think specifically that last sentence where they're where they're talking about design to, to go from grade to grade because they're trying to ensure that you don't cut the kid off.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, that's it really is the equivalent of being suspended one day. A little more frequently than one day. Every two weeks.

[R14595-235] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Richard Seaman: is my, my hope is to come, you know, at the October meeting and say we've adequately, you know, utilized all of these dollars and we can go into more detail with the help of Stephanie and her team to say where we spent it.
TEXT> Also, one last thing. While I have the mike since that 11,000, if you have a plan for that, that's fine. But if you don't, I just learned that that money could be used to  enable parents to participate in school related meetings and training sessions, such as providing child care. Yes, that's like a really cool idea.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: It's a great idea. The challenge for it and a grant from a previous year is what you're spending it on should benefit that year. So for this year we

[R14595-297] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So we can. And I just looked at I looked up, but I it's probably at the tip of steps talk. So yeah I'll let you take it I can fill in.
TEXT> So during Covid let's say we had we have a miss Kendra program that we utilized for our kindergarten students for SL. That program during Covid could not take place any longer. So we could not pay for that. And it was already budgeted. So that went away for for two years. The program itself didn't go away, but the amount of money that they originally had us paying went away because they were helping us virtually. So if you take, let's say, 20 different initiatives that we have activities approved for, and over the course of two years, you have to take them down to virtual. They couldn't pay. We couldn't pay them for people coming out and doing things and giving us materials when we weren't actually doing those things. So that's one reason those funds are there. The other thing is to your point about,  we need to spend that money every since I came on at the end of, of June when I came into the office, I have been working, trying to get activities approved to spend that money. The problem is, is it's all for this year. So the state says, wonderful idea. Put it in your 2223 grant.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: You can't spend money. That was supposed to be for the past school years. So we've we've done some work with pilots that we can do just for the month

[R14595-318] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we talked about SR one. Yeah. Now we're talking about SR three. Yeah. So what's what. That's where's what's SR two.
TEXT> S s or two. We still have some of the money  left on that. But SR three was when we talked about that before. That was for all the interventions and all of the other things. And and to boil right down to it, we also discussed  of what we might shift when we see we were ambitious to have the interventions  for students with additional teachers, academic centers and the like. You can be  all, you know, all kinds of ambitious. But but if there aren't enough staff out there to hire, then we make a shift and that's what we want to present. We also mentioned  in a very  eloquent way, right, moving our staff to stuff. So for HVAC, we we showed  outdoor classroom in playground spaces. We talked about looking back at  other types of, HVAC.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's just this or.

[R14595-363] Unidentified | Mixed cluster - pledge, ayes, seconds and short interjections from sev | 2022-09-07
PREV> Joshua Lambert: You were talking about math at Stevens. Is this the same? Richard Elliott from next door.
TEXT> Yes. Lucky kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, yeah. A long time, Steve. Quite a coach. I've heard wonderful things. Great. Great guy. So we're we're we're excited to have our experience. Yeah. And that's when you

[R14595-403] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: Is.
TEXT> It what I know is the contract that we have related to our food service is that we have a guaranteed surplus from food service of $27,000 a year. The difficulty that I know you're you're you're leaning toward is kids will put their meals on account and don't pay the account. So how much bad debt.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do we.

[R14595-418] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: Pardon me.
TEXT> That would be fantastic, because if I'm going to make an educated vote to spend one time money, and as often as I've sat in these meetings, and I hear that it's important that we provide meals from the student, I'm seeing an opportunity to capitalize when money's going to get really tight this winter.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I have a question. So last year when you made the budget, you had no. None of us knew exactly how much the field was going to cost. So what

[R14595-499] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-09-07
PREV> Unidentified: Pebble.
TEXT> Stone, stone unturned. I don't think she has. It's just it's just her nature to try and find these people. But they have to pass background checks. They have to pass all the different things required to move children as opposed to moving concrete.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[R14627-7] Hope Damon | Candidate for NH House (Sullivan County floater district), Croydon res | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: of this board. And I would invite anybody out there watching those running for our, office that would like to come and give a quick introduction. I would invite them to come as well to a meeting and introduce themselves. So with that said, welcome.
TEXT> Thank you very much.  Good evening, everybody, and thank you for allowing me to introduce myself.  As noted, my name is Hope Damon. I live in Croydon. Districts have been redesigned this year, as happens every ten years when the federal census is done. So just to give a quick lay of the land, Claremont is going to have five state reps at the state House in Concord. Three will represent Claremont and Croydon and two will be a floating district. That's what I'm running. In that district is nine towns Acworth, Langdon, Leinster, Goshen, Washington, Springfield, Croydon and Claremont. I think that was nine.  So I was part of the Stand Up for students campaign this spring to restore the school budget in Croydon, after it was cut by 53% on a motion from the floor. We went from a 20 to 14 vote to cut the budget to a 377 to 2 vote to fully restore the budget. After two months of communicating and informing, what would happen if we didn't restore at least some of the funding. I had previously thought of running for state rep for about five years, and that is the experience that really energized me to say now is the time my career has been.
NEXT> Hope Damon: As a dietitian diabetes educator. I've been self-employed most of that time. So small business person. I care very deeply about helping people. I'd like to say that my work

[R14627-14] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Candace Crawford', 'Candy. Crawford') | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: You can ask the questions the answered, probably via email or.
TEXT> Or or  during the regular part of the meeting would be helpful.  So I did look at the agenda in these two items I did not see on the agenda.  First of all,  back at the  deliberative meeting in February,  when the  motion was put forth to add,  a position for the guidance counselor position to the tech center. And it passed.  The question was asked of Superintendent Tempesta whether he, in fact, how he would,  would he would take that into consideration. He said, would he commit to funding that? He said he'd take it into consideration.  That was followed by a question from,  the citizens for the  attorney for the district and the,  asking if, in fact, that money had to be spent that way. And the attorney said he hadn't looked into it because he didn't know what was going to come up, but he would be getting back to the school board about that. So my question is, did the attorney ever get back to the school board regarding,  since that regarding that money that was identified  to be spent at the tech center? Did you find out from the attorney, in fact, if that money had to be sent spent. That's question one. Question two is,  at the August 17th meeting,  Superintendent Tempesta said that,  he had hired a seventh and eighth grade guidance person instead of at the tech center.  Which leaves the high school counselors responsible for the tech students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, my concern is that the guidance people at the high school are already overworked. And I wondered how often they get a chance to visit at the tech center

[R14627-15] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Candace Crawford', 'Candy. Crawford') | 2022-09-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: be sent spent. That's question one. Question two is, at the August 17th meeting, Superintendent Tempesta said that, he had hired a seventh and eighth grade guidance person instead of at the tech center. Which leaves the high school counselors responsible for the tech students.
TEXT> And,  my concern is that the guidance people at the high school are already overworked.  And I wondered how often they get a chance to visit at the tech center and see what the programs are so they can adequately advise the students on on scheduling and problem solving and how to incorporate  getting their coursework while at the tech center. So our guidance people at the high school well informed about the tech center and  its its programs and the needs. And then the third question was,  at the August 17th meeting,  business manager Simon said that there was about $650,000 in grant money  left to be identified and approved as or to get approval.  And that that money had to be identified. The purchases had to be identified and approved by September 15th. Now it's September 17th. And I'm hoping as a taxpayer that that $650,000 was identified and will be used. So those are some of the questions I have.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[R14627-18] Unidentified | Student representative to the board (name garbled in ASR as 'Hanoveria | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. Anything further for citizens comments? All right. Seeing none, we're going to move on to the student rep report. We have this Hanoverian.
TEXT> So for maple. Maple is having their annual title one meeting and open house on September 27th from 530 to 7. And the Maple students met Jane Reynolds, who's the sister of Peter Reynolds, who wrote the book the Dot last week, and they created some super cool art projects. They also had many smiling faces their first week of school, and you can find the pictures on the September 16th newsletter on the C website. And Dessner had their picture day last week and just had the open house last night. Bluff is having a great start to their school year, and they have their open house next Thursday, the 29th and more information to come. So make sure you check the website and CMS sports are off to a great start. They are having a staff versus student soccer game tomorrow, and their open house is coming up soon on the 6th of October at 6 p.m.. Band and course registration is still open and  Steve and Sports are off to a great start. Clubs are starting back up. The student council is planning a Spirit week, pep rally and homecoming dance all happening in the next couple of weeks, so keep your eyes open for that. I also have been working with Mr. Pratt this last week, and we sent students to Google Forum about the new cardinal recognition cards, and the responses we got back were very positive.
NEXT> Unidentified: We received 119 responses. 25.2 for freshmen, or 25.2% were freshmen, 34.5% were sophomores, 21.8% were juniors, and 18.5% were seniors, and 62.2% of the students believe that these cards

[R14627-21] Unidentified | Board member acknowledgements before the finance items (uncertain - vo | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Questions for our student.
TEXT> So can you describe what these cards are? Of course a little bit.  I'm guessing their got you being good in a card or something. Yeah. It's like  so whenever teachers see students doing something like helpful or like positive, then they give you one of the cards and there's like a small slip that goes down to the office and the student keeps the bigger slip, and it's like it tells you what you did and stuff like that. So like, it's just trying to recognize people for like being helpful in like versus like discipline and stuff. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: My understanding is the slip. Does it go into some sort of drawing for a prize? I believe.

[R14627-26] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> Thank you. Jim. So the the. You can follow along people at home and the,  also on the presenter. So as was alluded to before, we did have papal vision in child Walther Peter Reynolds.  Internationally known  with Dot day on the 15th.  We as a team at the saw did  a lot of work, a lot of most of the point person on this was our literacy  specialist, in  Stephanie Hurst and somewhere over here. Yeah. And,  basically  the whole week in the whole month is  focused on literacy.  And, and  the works, there's activities, there's games. We used our grant money  to, to bring this here. You can see from the slides up there, the upper left hand corner was  towards the end of the event where students  actively participated in activities. There is also a series of  related articles, one coming out soon that we posted on the SA six  site covering this by our publicist Erickson Gowda. But it was very well received. The middle slide that you see is that this was the family movie night on Monday of last week. And the dot,  the animated three of the movies were shown. Jane Reynolds led led  the presentation, and there was there were more things to follow. So this was the family night that we had go out.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we talked. They saw the movies on those books, the dot ish and sky color there a series. This and I mentioned these before. This is the these are

[R14627-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: family movie night on Monday of last week. And the dot, the animated three of the movies were shown. Jane Reynolds led led the presentation, and there was there were more things to follow. So this was the family night that we had go out.
TEXT> And we talked. They saw the movies on those  books, the dot ish and sky color  there a series. This  and I  mentioned these before. This is the these are some of the other types of things going on.  So the next week, the home challenges begin on Tuesday.  There will be a live one hour presentation by Peter Reynolds to all the students, elementary students  in the district where he'll be talking to them. They have also a surprise of what they've gathered from the events that have happened, including  a  movie made with the staff members and students and everyone to celebrate this initiative,  and also the celebration  at the end of the month as well. Next slide.  Again, these are double did the same,  things, but it was a really good response. And remember, this was we were kind of subject to their  schedule. So this was on the Monday night first event of the week. We put out, you know, the robocalls and stuff like that. But they had only gone to  Disney. Excuse me. Now I think they started at bluff. And  almost everyone you see there, most of the people are from bluff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Other other people came as well. If we had a to do over again, we did it. If we had done it on Wednesday, I think we had even more

[R14627-28] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: first event of the week. We put out, you know, the robocalls and stuff like that. But they had only gone to Disney. Excuse me. Now I think they started at bluff. And almost everyone you see there, most of the people are from bluff.
TEXT> Other other people came as well. If we had a to do over again, we did it. If we had done it on Wednesday, I think we had even more of a turnout. But it was a very, very well received event. A lot of great questions from the students. Next slide you can see. Okay. And and that's it. That's all I have now I save the rest of it for the, of my slideshow for the Esser reported for the follow up for the curriculum committee.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R14627-71] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: member. For example, if I ask for something, a process so that everybody else on the board knows they ask for it and they get the information to right now, I don't think there's a real process for that curriculum adoption, the process for that.
TEXT> Is there one,  used to be that it would go through the Curriculum Council and then to the board. So we want to get get that really codified.  And again,  public comment,  managing comments. So the public comment doesn't become a forum. And then  the process for answering citizens comments questions, which are now rhetoric as we as Candy gave questions tonight,  it would be good if there was a process for the whole board to hear what the answers to her questions were, for example, instead of just her, so that that type of stuff. Provide information and process for parental concerns.  All the time we're getting individual emails from parents with things. And how do we how do we deal with that?  And again, structuring the superintendent's report, hiring changes in the structure of the saw or the schools, school events, curriculum and data and what's going on in schools. These are these are things within the superintendent's report. We talked a little bit about required agenda items of financial reports, hiring that's going on, handbooks, student growth, not all at once, but different intervals to be determined. So these are things that we've started talking about. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to put this on the Google Drive, and I'll share it with everybody on the board, and I'll share it with the administration too.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And so you can go in and, put ideas in critique, what our thinking is. And hopefully with the help of everybody, we can create a, a document that helps

[R14627-89] Unidentified | Stevens High School counselor presenting the 2022 school profile (not  | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: college was 40%, two year college was 19%. So the total of that was 59% of our kids last year went to a 2 or 4 year college. And again, this could have changed from, you know, June when we got some information from them.
TEXT> 2% went to the military and 35% went to employment. And then we had 4% return of students, high school for postgrad studies,  which is students who can save their 21 years old, but they walk with their class that they've gone through high school with.  Yeah, it.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Was the percentage for.

[R14627-91] Unidentified | Stevens High School counselor presenting the 2022 school profile (not  | 2022-09-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Was the percentage for.
TEXT> Employment was 35%. Yeah.  We also broke down diploma types. We have three diplomas as Stevens High School. We have our diploma with distinction. District standard, which is 23 credits, and state standard, which is 20 credits. And then diploma is 27 credits. So we had 42 students get the highest diploma. We had 32 students get the district standard. We had 26 get the state standard and we had five kids attendance, which means again, they don't get diploma, but they get the experience being in high school. We also have our grading scale on here for colleges to look at.  And at the bottom we have,  the colleges that students enrolled in. So it looks like the winner last year with most was River Valley Community College with 15 students, and Keene State was second with ten students. Does anyone have any questions for me on this?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm just curious. Yeah. We've gotten this from Chelsea or from you, because I don't. I can't find this.

[R14627-101] Unidentified | Stevens High School counselor presenting the 2022 school profile (not  | 2022-09-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: What is that? So what is what does that mean?
TEXT> So that means that these are students. You can help me with this exclusion. If you want to. It's for students.  Special education students. Okay. Who do not get high school diplomas, but they come to high school. They get to experience they sit in classes there with their peers. Okay. And so,  when it is their chronological graduation year, they have the option of graduation and we count them in our totals for that year.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Okay. That makes sense.

[R14627-103] Unidentified | Stevens High School counselor presenting the 2022 school profile (not  | 2022-09-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Okay. That makes sense.
TEXT> So some years we have none. Some years we have five. It just depends on how many students that kind of hits for that year.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And only Sped students can get that diploma.

[R14627-104] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: So some years we have none. Some years we have five. It just depends on how many students that kind of hits for that year.
TEXT> And only Sped students can get that diploma.
NEXT> Unidentified: And it's planned out ahead of time with families and all that good stuff.

[R14627-119] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Candace Crawford', 'Candy. Crawford') | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: So, Candy, you have to come up to the bike, please.
TEXT> Candy. Crawford. Ward two. I wondered if you did the calculation of, what the percentage of graduates were from the number of students who started as freshmen to the number who graduated?
NEXT> Unidentified: No, I did not do that percent. I don't have that number.

[R14627-122] Unidentified | Stevens High School counselor presenting the 2022 school profile (not  | 2022-09-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Because that that has to be done, I think, to send into the state.
TEXT> I don't know. That's data stuff. I don't I don't have the answer to that question. Okay. How many kids were freshman class? How many graduate I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. I don't have any.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Of that.

[R14627-133] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. All right. You're on to Mr. and Mrs.. Even for the sr. Update on our sr.
TEXT> I have. A lovely numbers for all of you. So this is the sr SR three  allocation.  What we have submitted  to the Department of editor. We're where we are  right now.  Just to give an update to the board as requested. So  we have as you look at the graph, we have ordered a health screeners,  to to help with the nurse with the on the public health side. $52,330  health software. $25,000  each year. And that is for 22, 23 and 2324. We also have transportation software, transportation software,  somewhat sophisticated that that has  tracking  devices that can be added on. But we're also looking to use that  to monitor  and be able to look at different routes and different  efficiencies.  And it's something that we could always have used. But we also it fell in the asset category, so we pursued it. Diagnostic  emergency placements  to for students who are in crisis. Again, following the cell  type of  category. We had nine specific  buckets where we  targeted  through  the federal monies that that we could. And that is one that we see. And we wanted to make sure we had contingency on that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We also put $147,000 in for late busses to be able to, and I'll speed ahead as well to a transportation that will come up after, we are hoping that

[R14627-134] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: who are in crisis. Again, following the cell type of category. We had nine specific buckets where we targeted through the federal monies that that we could. And that is one that we see. And we wanted to make sure we had contingency on that.
TEXT> We also put $147,000 in for  late busses  to be able to,  and I'll speed ahead as well to a transportation that will come up after,  we are hoping that we have  enough staff and enough  busses to support these roads. This was meant  as from the very start of the Or moneys for students to be able to stay after school for either tutoring for some of the clubs and activities that we have  to completely meant to  targeted at the learning losses that we that we have. And it's obviously more advantageous  for parents who aren't home at that time that we they would be with us and then we would get them home. So,  finding the drivers in it is another  matter that that we're we still have advertised for them and we're actively interviewing, but it's  drivers are in scarce supply. Some of program on this iteration we have 161,000  that that we targeted based on what we  had already and what we plan on doing next year. The data data program, looking at other data, I'm going to excuse me. Information. And I'll also going to go through the exact submissions on these. If you think this isn't dry enough in just a few slides, you strap in. Okay.  So,  and,  curriculum renewals for other  types of, of  of programs that we have  additional academic supports.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Now that's teaching professional and nonprofessional. You can see nearly approaching $3 million on this. This is where the target, the bulk of the monies went to, was hiring more

[R14627-135] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And I'll also going to go through the exact submissions on these. If you think this isn't dry enough in just a few slides, you strap in. Okay. So, and, curriculum renewals for other types of, of of programs that we have additional academic supports.
TEXT> Now that's teaching professional and nonprofessional. You can see nearly approaching $3 million on this. This is where the target, the bulk of the monies went to, was hiring more staffing, more counselors, more, more  interventionists, so that we can get right down and more down with students who are having difficulty  increase their chances at success. The CTE outreach. We had specific things in there with the middle school that we identified and put in with  as a spin off for the visioning Committee, as well into model  the increasing numbers coming to the tech center by paying for extra classes to have the eighth graders come up.  And Miss Kendra is also we expanded that elementary offering as well. It's it's other curriculum. And to go to the next slides. All right. These are some of the actual submissions and the listing of that. You can see all the staff and the clustering of of the budget, the  salary benefits, everything that we had to, to,  put in there for the, for the 2.8 million all the way through. Very robust.  We have spoken at length when we started presenting. Seemed like a long time ago. But the original ideas from  Principal Romeo and from  Principal Barrie at the time as well, and her team,  carried  so far with,  with Mr. Pratt to try to have the academic centers in the middle and high school  to get students to graduate on on time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: These are the staffing folks that we have targeted for that. Few of those folks aren't haven't been hired yet. We're still have the budget budgeted positions, and we're hoping

[R14627-137] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: doing right now, where the eighth graders are coming up, they're teaching above contract. We talked to outside of contract. We had to compensate them for the collective bargaining unit, the Miss Kendra program. Trauma, socially informed emotional learning program that we have done previously.
TEXT> But we also expanded that the health screeners, vision screeners and the hearing screeners.  This was a really fortunate,  endeavor that lead nurse  Ronnie Janice put together in, basically, so that we would have these to be able to mobile screen.  Students at each at each building, which might not sound like a lot, but you really have to schlep the the machines all around. And we can also piggyback off of existing  outreach and events to, to make sure kids have have  more screenings on a regular basis.  The other program that we got, we got Route Finder plus software for the busses that I alluded to, and that will help us map out and find better ways to bring kids back, track and trace them, and also be nimble in looking at the after school needs and the resource allocations for those programs  for on the family support side. We also put  scholastic,  family and community engagement programs together. $50,000 divide up between  the  the districts and also materials so that we could have more outreach for families. We're also excited about the Stem. We we started this last year, and we have linkages with the community college, in particular, to have coding events and other types of things that still, it was a little iffy still, even in the spring with Covid, as you remember.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And people coming out. But now we're we're a full bore on this. We also have our friends at Fable Vision. We have some complimentary things that we're going to

[R14627-141] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The questions. Any questions?
TEXT> So I don't know if it's a question for for you Mike or for Ben. Yeah I'm curious about the diagnostic placements. Do we have any kids in that now?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We don't. We don't know. Ben can answer it more readily, but we we have some students with other placements with some goes out on emergency placement. That's what it

[R14627-142] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I don't know if it's a question for for you Mike or for Ben. Yeah I'm curious about the diagnostic placements. Do we have any kids in that now?
TEXT> We don't. We don't  know. Ben can answer it more readily, but we we have some students  with other placements with some goes out on emergency placement. That's what it is targeted for. So we don't draw down other other reserves to do that. It certainly fit into the description from the from the CARES money. And we thought that would be a good use of the money. If you want to speak to the particulars I'm sorry I'll put it back there.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I believe we have one student and a 90 day. You know, described as a diagnostic placement.

[R14627-143] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (acting board secretary for the r | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: other other reserves to do that. It certainly fit into the description from the from the CARES money. And we thought that would be a good use of the money. If you want to speak to the particulars I'm sorry I'll put it back there.
TEXT> I believe we have one student and a 90 day. You know, described as a diagnostic placement.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay.

[R14627-147] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: That's right.
TEXT> I don't know if that. Yeah, we just passed that. We've had a particularly, you know, we had we had more kids in earlier grades. Have trouble last year with, with with adjusting coming back. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I guess one more thing while we're on. So, we've seen SR one and we've seen SR three. There's is there a two?

[R14627-161] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: ready and last week with I ready. And they suggested what they use with other districts as a standards mastery assessment. So we can give a pre and a post assessment and we can hone in on a specific targeted goal for each grade level.
TEXT> So if that's phonological awareness for kindergarten students that are there, if it's phonics, if it's vocabulary comprehension, whatever that specific area of need is, we can focus on that for each grade level. The same with math. We could focus on numbers and operations.  Numbers sense that I know how they would love to talk more about in the future. The other thing is the the way that it was done in the past, there was no way to look at just a summer student  summer school roster. You can see the whole district, and you'd have to go through an Excel sheet and pick out each student that actually attended, going this route for next summer. It would give us a summer school roster that we could just pull separate data, easy point and click and get our reports to share with you guys. And that's the last point is it's easy to read reports. So there will be no trying to interpret. Well, this sort of means that a scaled score growth of four points but not really. So this would give us exact apples to apples data to compare for progress from the pre and post assessments for summer school.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Thank you. Thank you.

[R14627-172] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: grade. That's going to fix the problem going forward. But we still have the problem with children who haven't received that explicit phonics instruction. You know, five years ago that we're still trying to remedy, but I won't I won't read it all to you.
TEXT> But you can see here how it builds at the end. A skilled reader, when you have every one of these strands going forward.  Again, as I mentioned that we've started our work with the word recognition, with the phonological awareness and decoding.  And we are moving into more of the language comprehension piece of it to strengthen that comprehension for students once they've had that explicit instruction to learn how to read words. So, yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is this, thinking back to my title, one days. So, I'm curious if if if there's a curriculum you're working with or is this you're relying on teacher best

[R14627-184] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: you take a test on comprehension. If you pass comprehensive test, you get points and your points add up to toppings on your ice cream sundae at the end of the school year. So I'm just saying it was it was it was the character.
TEXT> I remember Accelerated Reader. So and  we had the bucket program, I believe, where Pizza Hut would give us these little vouchers and we could go eat pizza if we read so many books. But I want you to think back to maybe there was a book that you could get a lot of points for, but you couldn't access that book because you couldn't read the words that were in the book. You didn't have the knowledge to decode the programs that we have teach children to, to decode. First, they don't put a book in front of them that they can't read and then say, go independently read it, and they don't have the skills to be able to to access the text. So these programs teach that first. And then there's decodable readers that are deep. They're not just, you know, the cat's on the hat. It's not so minuscule as that, but it's  deep decodable readers that you can build comprehension off of as well, so they can access the word knowledge to be able to decode while also building their comprehension. So I can't speak to that's a wonderful question, and I'll look into it about what type of reward system, but I think we can build that into any program that we get to encourage children to, to continue that love for reading.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: And both programs do have rich read aloud that the teachers do to to bring about that interactive read aloud type scenario, to bring about that desire to love, to

[R14627-186] Heather Pelkey | Curriculum specialist (math), SAU 6 (addressed as 'Heather'; 'Doctor P | 2022-09-15
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: And both programs do have rich read aloud that the teachers do to to bring about that interactive read aloud type scenario, to bring about that desire to love, to read and to to want to continue down the path. So good questions.
TEXT> And I can answer for the math. The math. The thing that we're in that we are working towards is implementing number talks, which brings about  students talking in math and talking to each other and,  and what their classmates have to say. So it's really the practices of math and how they go about doing,  mathematicians go about doing math. So it's really engaging in the students get really excited for it. And there's lots of routines there.  The elementary math program that they are using is very hands on based. So there's a lot of manipulatives and students are learning that way. And in the middle school, the program that they are piloting this year is  problem based learning. So again, the students are talking to each other. They're trying to figure out the problems and how the best way to solve them is. So it's it's really it's a rich, rich discussion points for everything, which is what we're trying to build for mathematicians.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Thank you.

[R14627-195] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: No.
TEXT> I don't I don't think so. I'm  actually, I didn't ask this time. I my first year here, I drove it.  As well.  To, to escort students to the,  the hype  activity, which I hope happens again. That's the hosting young philosophy enthusiast. So former philosophy majors like myself, I could put the degree of use and got behind the wheel and went and supported the students at Colby Sawyer. That was the first year, and they hoped to have this again. They have it every year in New Hampshire. It's a wonderful event, and basically what it does is students get involved in socially active  issues, policies, making change within their community. It's a wonderful  event and  we hope to do that in the spring as well.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So so my follow up question is if that van is not available. Yeah. Can we rent a van or does that.

[R14627-205] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: transport. We also transport the, the band from the high school to the football game. So things like that that would be really need to kind of, you know, a wonderful job. Everybody's doing what we really need to kind of look at these things.
TEXT> And could they just be dropped? We. But it also highlights and  and I don't know that, but I I'll try to get the answer.  I don't know historically why they do it could be a team camaraderie type of thing or things like that. But the common sense, could parents drop off people? Could we shuttle people? Do we have to have that? I'm pretty sure when they schedule, I'll, you know, talk talk to Doug  specifically about about those. But the, I, I, I think this is, you know, I think it's, it's more of tradition than and I also don't know that every student could get there. I think there's a lot of students who walk to the high school to play sports. I see them with their shoulder pads actually coming from from home and stuff. I don't know the exact answer, but I but I can get it. I would suspect that.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: It seems to me like tradition. Yes, but how do you get a bunch of students with these big instruments all together at a place without putting them in a

[R14627-206] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination) | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: there's a lot of students who walk to the high school to play sports. I see them with their shoulder pads actually coming from from home and stuff. I don't know the exact answer, but I but I can get it. I would suspect that.
TEXT> It seems to me like tradition. Yes, but how do you get a bunch of students with these big instruments all together at a place without putting them in a bus together? The same thing with all the football gear? Yeah, that's.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's with the with the music. To most, a lot of those instruments are stored at the school, so I, I get that, but I don't, I don't know I

[R14627-270] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. Thank you. Thank you. We are on other business.
TEXT> I have a question for the administration because I'm not sure who is going to answer it.  And it's kind of a two part question, so just kind of bear with me. I have a lot to say in the beginning. So on December 12th, 2019, there was some kind of special meeting to approve, some kind of warrant for a refund. And this money was allocated to keep higher needs students in district and save us money for sending special as students out of district. And so I'm wondering just if someone could provide like an elevator update on what happened to that and if that allocation has any relationship to the current challenges we're seeing in our school with special education resources, attention and compliance with IEPs, lack of professional help for the higher needs students, not enough staffing or case managers. Are these two things related? And if not, then I'd like a separate status update on both. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The 14 part. Yeah, yeah.

[R14627-278] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (acting board secretary for the r | 2022-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The governor's one time.
TEXT> One time money. And I think what, what the board agreed to do is take half of it to build a program, which we did. And we brought two students back from a school in Vermont. Okay. And then I believe the other half of that money is still available in an expendable trust. Okay.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yeah. Actually.

[R14627-284] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2022-09-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: I yeah, that's a good question.
TEXT> There's a lot of concern in the community among parents of students with IEPs. Yeah. So I'm just wondering what the administration is doing about that.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And I can speak to the staffing a little bit. I mean, it's it's, you know, it's a sad state of affairs right now in New Hampshire with staffing shortages

[R14627-299] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: I. I heard a question earlier and I kind of really want to know the answer to it. So I would like to update of what the freshmen through senior year graduation percentage was for last year's class.
TEXT> So you're you're talking about. I think what's at the foundational you and I have had side conversations about that, miss Crawford about the the four year graduation rate in which versus the five year cohort, when, when do we lose kids? And that's something  that is front and center with Mr. Pratt. That's something where we want to dig into. And  just to put that out there for folks, oftentimes once a kid gets to,  junior and senior year, they have the end in sight, and then some kids don't make it what we're talking about that we know.  In the long run is when kids are somehow fade out. Where do they go freshman and sophomore year? That's something we've identified and we have to do more research with, whether it's home schooling, whether it's transients and all the others. We're not satisfied with what we've how we've looked at that over time. But that is exactly the target and the focus of the Esser money, and also a key priority for the current high school administration to to just stop that and then start working the other way.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Also, the definition of a dropout, I mean, it's I mean, it sounds like the left.

[R14627-301] Unidentified | Mixed short responses and ayes from several people | 2022-09-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Also, the definition of a dropout, I mean, it's I mean, it sounds like the left.
TEXT> Students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Often it's more complex than.

[R14630-10] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-29
PREV> Unidentified: Motion made by Bonnie. Seconded by Shannon. Further discussion. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Abstentions. Steve abstains. Again. Okay. Citizens. Comments. See any citizens? So I will close citizens comments. We will transition to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Thank you everyone. So I had. Some items. On there  that I would like to  to talk to you about. Mostly the Claremont people know. I think that  in the unity I don't know that we had it in the last meeting, but  we have had a collaboration with,  Fable Vision  and that is the the opening slide where an essay six every child grows and learns.  It was a big initiative. We had a lot of events over the last couple of weeks,  particularly in the dot, and we're  is the the book that,  author Peter Reynolds  is most  known and celebrated for? We have a lot of great events  with that, that we that we did that were wonderful. The students  put all kinds of  activities together. They actually had a two  a one hour video conference with him directly with the author, Peter Reynolds, on Tuesday. And  it was very well received. So it was it was a good event.  And these are some of the activities.  And I want to thank I want to thank Erickson Goda, also for our publicist at the SA.  Contracted  for for coming out with the, with the esser money, and  put a lot of these  slides and clips together.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You're going to find them on the web page. We're going to have a lot more events on a regular basis. We have SB 420 as well, where with both,

[R14630-13] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-29
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that we brought up, doing a really thorough audit. And he'll talk about that in a little bit. The last thing that I put on there that many of us have had some close calls with and some and some definite calls with is Covid.
TEXT> So and I wanted  to to talk about where we were. It has come up  in both sets of staff and, and from community members and things like that. We haven't had anything that has stopped  school. We have had  in general. And I'll talk about the numbers of where we are waited to to pull this. I sent out the  the newer one, I think on Monday or on Sunday. I forget when I sent it out, but the, the numbers are still very low, the vulnerability is very low, and you can tell it's it's more just by the graphs that they use. Now.  And I'm not the frequent flier that I was every single day for the two years before looking at this stuff, which I'm thankful for. But we still have people who are coming in  and the I think the biggest thing that that we all know is there haven't been  and will go forward. This is a summary of of  the saw so far that  Nurse Moroni got got together. 34 students were out,  total population of 1650 17 members of the staff were out. And this is just Covid related.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Of 366 unity, two students, no staff members. We're monitoring it all all the time. It hasn't it overall, it's not like it was obviously. But we're still continuing to

[R14630-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-29
PREV> Michael Tempesta: is there haven't been and will go forward. This is a summary of of the saw so far that Nurse Moroni got got together. 34 students were out, total population of 1650 17 members of the staff were out. And this is just Covid related.
TEXT> Of 366 unity, two students, no staff members. We're monitoring it all all the time.  It hasn't  it overall, it's not like it was obviously. But we're still continuing to to monitor and do that. And I think what's been really tough is,  no one is reporting it. Right. With, with the home tests, the  there's not a lot of validity in all of the numbers. So they are appropriately lower. And unfortunately this it's going to run its course. But I know that it is affected board members families  saw we had a few people out  in  middle school had hit it. I think on the Claremont side, the closest call that we've had so far, even through all of Covid, we barely lost a driver and we had one driver out  in another. One just went out that complicated things. But,  we're we're optimistic about it, but it's it's it's a tough thing to it's better than it was, I guess. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: So there's.

[R14630-18] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) | 2022-09-29
PREV> Michael Tempesta: office was hit with both secretaries were out. So the staff, we had the extra staff. Who were part of the Esser money. They're helping out, and we helped out when we needed to, just to start to make sure they were set. And it's,
TEXT> Just for clarification on this slide. Yeah.  It's a you six students as a total as 34, which would include the two students from unity. Or is it supposed to be broken?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think that was everything together at the last slide. And she had the date on this one. I don't see the date on it, but it was a it

[R14630-20] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) | 2022-09-29
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I think that was everything together at the last slide. And she had the date on this one. I don't see the date on it, but it was a it was on, Friday last.
TEXT> Week, Claremont had 32 students and 17, five of them. Would that be a correct assumption based off what I'm seeing?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes, yes, yes. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm looking at something different on my computer because of my. So. But that that's all I have for that, for that update

[R14630-149] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-09-29
PREV> Unidentified: They were there, but I think they acted as an office office manager capacity kind of I think. Yeah. If memory serves.
TEXT> Yeah. But I'm, I'm just, you know, for I've been an administrator for a long too long at the time I think sometimes. But but 24 years or something like that getting up there in from my first day as a as an assistant principal in my first job, I had an admin assistant solely for the confidential things for student management and the other things. It is not typical that that I know of. I don't know of another place I've ever heard of where a superintendent didn't have their own admin assistant. Obviously the highest executive level of confidentiality, where it wasn't that it's it's it's minimally not typical. I'm not saying it's not perfect and and I'm not complaining about it, but it is not a typical situation that I found.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Any other comments or questions on staffing? Okay. Future agenda items and future meetings. We've already talked about the timeline for the budget, so we have meetings scheduled October 27th.

[R14654-12] Abby Hopkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'My name is Abby Hopkins, an | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. All right. We have citizens comments. Citizens comments again at this time or for non-agenda items. Anybody have any citizens comments at this point? All right. Sure. Name and ward, please. Yes.
TEXT> My name is Abby Hopkins, and I live in Ward three. I basically you just approve the minutes from the September 21st meeting, and I have a question. I was not there. Unfortunately. But under student growth item F under the summer program for student growth, it says the assessment scores for the summer program were not gotten due to school year rollover. I don't know what that means. So if somebody could just explain that. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: We we used a testing instrument, and they told the data that the company that runs the software and, they rolling over at the end of that year and there

[R14654-31] Unidentified | Student representative 'Hannah', student council president (chair: 'Th | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: One of the pep rally. Which grade?
TEXT> I'm not exactly sure. I'm like the student council president this year, so I was kind of like a lot more behind the scenes.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: The classes compete with each other. Right.

[R14654-50] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: So it's part of the same thing, like there's have to be a separate one for this package of money.
TEXT> So everything that we do just in whether we're taking money for it  or  is aligned to the strategic plan, student growth and everything. So, so the capital reserve and the,  in terms of having backup  money for facilities and rainy day to ensure that  we have operational plants and things like that to meet the needs. We feel that that's directly in line. Transportation funding in particular, with many of the needs that we have to get students back, as indicated recently and what we're what we already  went for. My goodness. It was three years ago when we when we started that  that that trust  was to make sure that we always would have  a rotation of, of the bus fleet, that we would be able to  adapt as well to the needs of different, different runs, things that will.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Experience the the accountability, planning and reporting that you already have to do will put us in compliance with receiving these funds. And that in the past, when you've had

[R14654-105] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'And frank first' [238] -> [240] | 2022-10-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: 230,000. The energy trust fund. I understand the cost of energy is out of control, but I still believe it's doing a disservice to our children and their families. Thank you.
TEXT> Can I. Speak to that? Apparently I am for this plan as well.  I think right now we're lucky to have some Covid money, as they call it, Esser money that we have put into place to to bolster up what we're providing for students. As far as,  the extra, hopefully extra adults in the building.  Extra educational time. And that's really bolstered that at all the, at all the schools at this point. So that's why I'm for putting this money aside for when we need it.  For those emergency situations come up. So, yeah, you sort of said what I was going to say, like the redundant redundancy here with between the what the feds are offering us and what the state is offering us with really the same expectation for, for outcomes. And,  through the use of the Covid money, we have increased our staffing significantly, particularly around supports for kids and kids that are,  are struggling with extra teachers, extra discipline people, extra counselors. We we have done that. And this is really the first year of a two year process. So I guess what I'm I think I'm going to comment on Richard's use of the word.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: This is not a grant. And I think that that's an important distinction, because a grant can be used to supplement but not supplant. And with money, this money we

[R14654-226] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Opposed? Any abstentions? All right. That closes the public hearing. Time to move on to the regular board meeting. First on the agenda is Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's report. All right.
TEXT> All right, so, superintendents, you see a happy, smiling people picture from the  middle school band performing recently.  Wonderful things going on on on the cover. I want to go over the strategic plan that we have put together, and we're going to talk about  the last 10 or 12 years of achievement data and all kinds of  things that we've talked about  throughout the last couple of years. So  we are going to focus on  more hours,  alignment of courses and expectation. This is the same presentation that we did last  November. Slides of this. Many of you know this from the strategic plan,  gather data, build curriculum, map scope and sequence.  How does it meet our goals? Reduces repetition and learning. Not to be confused with scaffolding, addresses gaps, sparks professional growth, and helps us make decisions faster to prioritize learning for students. When you look at the summary of the 2020  SAT  in AP scores, you can see with area schools in the region  that we are  in the middle of the pack.  Not not the lowest, not the highest. This is information that we presented to the board last, last November at a retreat.  Also you can see the PS 80 data as well  in the region, and you can see  where Stevens is in comparison to that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is important because the board made this a focus for the past couple of years. We we spoke about the gathering of the state and forming everything that we

[R14654-233] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> All right. This is  the Claremont Middle School  schedule showing a correlation between the middle school, which we'll talk about later. And that's also a subject of our presentation, Stevens High School.  And  the tech center so that they can have common  intersection and you share the same staff if needed. But also students would have access to more  time for instruction with the switching of schedules  and also  more opportunities for the middle school to access as well. This is the current  middle school schedule for this year where they've  where they have enrichment blocks as well, to have students  focus on learning and  electives. That aligns again. And you see  the eighth grade block in the bottom band is the students who are  accessing the tech center classes here  in the middle school to get used to them, to expand what they take  in the future. This is  where we are combining the schedules  in  an opportunity  to get a  forward peek at the high school schedule with six,  six periods  that meet two lunches in how Mr. Pratt and his team are looking at  rotating the flex period that has been fixed for a number of years in one spot, so that it can  actually go through the entire day so that time is preserved in each meeting time for each class  that runs  again, just more focused on the time on learning and capturing the class instructional time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The next part that I have to present and I'm going, going through this and I to back up with it later as well for the restructuring plan. But this

[R14654-236] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to impress upon the people at home to, to take the survey, reach out to us, and we're trying to have committees that will also guide the work and instruct the board. Many of the board members are on these same committees right with us.
TEXT> So when you look at the  the restructure model  two, the one with the yellow band and the lower part of the screen,  this is the this is a similar one with today's numbers that, that we  that we did before. This is if a  student attends all three elementary schools and there's a couple pieces that I  that all I did was convert the, convert the numbers  per the grade you can see in the green band that would be that's lined up with the maple  class. And if you look from left to right, where you see where it's maple, follow it across and you see below where it says 272. And also  currently they have 298 students. If you look to the far right column in the total, they would have 272 taking the pre-K students,  and also  the to K-1. The next band is Disney  with 244 students. Currently they have 236 and the following band is 243, which stays the same in both models  because that is fourth and fifth hat.  At  Bluff School.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: A quick on this slide. Just a quick. So I'm looking at the middle of the high school. Yeah. And, can you explain to me how how there can be

[R14654-238] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: A quick on this slide. Just a quick. So I'm looking at the middle of the high school. Yeah. And, can you explain to me how how there can be one point for more teachers at the middle school than there at the high school?
TEXT> Currently, most of those teachers that there are in the academic centers also,  you know, assisting and,  and with specials and I  do,  you know, agree that is something that that we you know, most of that's exactly what that is. And we can tease all that out  and show the staffing.  But that, that is  you know, something that that caught the eye. You alluded to it before with, with a lot of the interventions for students and counselors and, and resources. But that that is the plan and it is working very well.  With their preliminary data for the first month of September, students are are coming, they're active and  in tendencies up incidents of, of discipline are down. So that's what I have for the impact statement on that so far. But  when you look  the so in this model to it's called model two because there were two transitions. Okay. That would mean before they get to high school that they're going to two  elementary  schools. And then then they're graduating to the middle school. The restructured model one would be with one transition.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is a little bit different. But this is where we left off. Last time we did this, where the community was very concerned with having having two of those

[R14654-239] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to it's called model two because there were two transitions. Okay. That would mean before they get to high school that they're going to two elementary schools. And then then they're graduating to the middle school. The restructured model one would be with one transition.
TEXT> This is a little bit different. But this is where we left off. Last time we did this, where the community was very concerned with having having two of those transitions. And if you could focus it at one and in this plan there would be  two k threes at Maple and and  designer,  and then there would be the 4 or 5 at at bluff. And you see the corresponding numbers, the, the feeling on this and the thing that still has to be vetted. And I'll go to the next slide,  and  the summary is, oh, I'm sorry. Went for my eyes on my screen. I'm sorry I didn't do the screen at home. My apologies.  But basically the to form the Elementary Advisory Committee  in the purpose is to advise the  school board on, on  the perspective of this as well to contribute to the discussion. And we had great discussion tonight.  We would want them to be  part and parcel of exactly what to put in the surveys to create those as well. The four biggest things that we need to improve upon. We need to get  final answers for exactly how the transportation modeling would work. We also have purchased modeling software using Esser money to have more outreach to bring students in.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's going to greatly facilitate that process. They really literacy gains how what what we anticipate how we're going to measure them in exactly, what we're doing already that's working

[R14654-241] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and high school have had scheduling committees that have been meeting for the past year and a half. And they're they're fine tuning the schedule that they have. That is also a schedule that we have to work with the SRA bargaining unit to negotiate.
TEXT> We feel  many of those same members have been long term looking at the schedule, and  it will be a variation of long block, short blocks,  deference to historical things that have been in kind of a little bit of a change, but not an abandonment of advisory and flex period, so that there's a latitude within the day that the New England Association, Accreditation Association,  they like to come out and look at those things and will be sensitive to all of that. We're hoping that there's significant  and we're getting anecdotal  feedback that that it's already happening.  Focus on students staying in school and drop out prevention, some of the academic centers and other interventions that are afforded in more,  all in schedules that go all year, where the core academics. This would also be an increase of 16% more learning time, fearing the same amount of of budgeted days. And it would,  keep students and wrap more supports around a student because the teacher would have them for almost another extra month of class time within the same calendar year because of the increase of meeting times. The thought also being that the continuity of layering of building block type courses for mathematics, foreign language instruction and the like,  you would have  consistency all the way through.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The teacher would also have more time to build a rapport with the student, have interventions and a lot more success. So that would also require in this process, if

[R14654-243] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: such as health sciences, and how do we make sure our kids can access those? So those are things that also tie into the survey in this group. And if you if that is up your rally, please, please join us folks at home. So.
TEXT> This is the full survey that's going out. Basically, it's just identifying where where you are, where your kids are in school,  what what what you do. And if you can meet for those three meetings, when we are  targeting to present right before Thanksgiving to the board on that meeting, I believe it's a 16th of the  18th. And,  see where we are for next steps after that, whether there's a firm decision, more meetings needed or the like. But that is  that is where we are in our in our update on those presentations. I think we have, a lot of work to do in a short period of time, but it's we're really looking forward to it. So I'm losing my boys.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Before we go to questions for the superintendent, I'm going to remind people that we have the restructure and the, changes to the schedule later on in the agenda. So

[R14654-277] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Bonnie Miles: So they are all on the same page. Basically.
TEXT> They're all on the same page that absolutely max out student schedules and and benefit. Can we all  and I think one of the there I had a bunch of points that I followed up with as well from that meeting. And  what I think we can do and I thought that the,  the Eric Perry from, from Newport said that very well too, is we should just plan better anyway. And that's what we were discussing in terms of meeting at the end of the year schedule and things like that. Just meet on a regular basis. The next day, I  was at a superintendents meeting  with Donna magoon from Newport with with Russ Holden from Santa, and we reiterated that fact that we should we should do some of these things, you know, more often in all our free time type of thing. But but we but definitely  there were great points made in that meeting, I.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thought following up on Bonnie's thing around CTE. And maybe this is a scheduling conversation, but for curriculum. But, one of the things that would be, I think useful would

[R14654-305] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'And frank first' [238] -> [240] | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Koski: to stay in this range. We have a lot of challenges. But we also have excellent teachers. And we've shown that our scores can grow in the past. And and so I expect we'll see those scores climbing over the next year or two. Frank.
TEXT> So I'm wondering,  those actually it's interesting because those early, as you showed with me was when I was at Stevens, which was interesting, and that was kneecap and that was No Child Left Behind, which started in 2001 or whenever it started. And I was a I was actually a school administrator pretty much the whole time that that was in place. And that was really all, fear based motivation, to be honest.  There were continual threats coming from the state of,  not making adequate yearly progress for whatever reason, for your for different cohorts within your student population. It could be your attendance. There were a number of things that,  that could result in you not making adequate yearly progress. And of course, it was all based on cooked books out of the Houston School District in Houston, Texas, that there was a belief that all kids could be proficient 100%, which was which was a false pretense from the beginning. But,
NEXT> Michael Koski: Well, if I could interrupt, I apologize.

[R14654-308] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, presenting as the curriculum 'team of | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So so I'm wondering if what what's the fear factor now? That's my question. Yeah. Is there one?
TEXT> First, I would say I believe all kids can be proficient. I don't know if all kids can be proficient according to somebody else's time scale. Right. But all kids can be proficient. I'd like to make that clear. And so now your your question is what is the fear factor.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is there one.

[R14654-311] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'And frank first' [238] -> [240] | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Koski: Yeah. I don't think so. I it's certainly not the same game that kneecap was.
TEXT> Yeah. It was. Don't get me wrong, I was never a fan of No Child Left Behind. Yeah, but but there was, there was that,  there was that authority that as a school administrator that could motivate people to say, listen, we don't want to be that school, right?
NEXT> Michael Koski: Yeah. And, and I, I am happy to say that doesn't exist now because the test is not like the sole measure of educational success. The state exam.

[R14654-314] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, presenting as the curriculum 'team of | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, never has.
TEXT> Been right. It never was right, but it was treated as such. Right.  And so we we're we're looking at, you know, what, what incentives to students have to do. Well,  is that, is that the issue is, is instructional practice an issue? Is it the strictly turnover, like Maple having to replace 60% of their staff this year due to turnover, you know, trying to identify what those issues are so they can be corrected.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But but I can tell you we had turnover in those years that they were improving too.

[R14654-319] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'And frank first' [238] -> [240] | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Koski: we also have teachers who are working in PLCs to look at data and look at their own data. And, and and so they're they're by subject matter and grade looking at their own instruction, looking at student performance and and making those line up.
TEXT> Tell quick story. I had a student who was a special ed student who had the highest science kneecap scores in the school.  And she was she was a special ed kid. She was identified and her case manager and I sat down with her and said, what? What approach did you take on this test? And she goes, Mr. Sprague, this was not a science test. This was a reasoning test  with just about science. And she had figured out that the science was just red herrings. And it was just really just trying to figure out what the word problem was. It's fascinating. So it you know, it takes a lot of effort. And sometimes you have to interview individual kids to say, okay, what did you do? How did you do this? Yeah. Where did you learn that?
NEXT> Michael Koski: Right. That's a nice a nice example of why the state test. It's the only data we have. But it's really not high value data. No. And so I want

[R14654-320] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6, presenting as the curriculum 'team of | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: figure out what the word problem was. It's fascinating. So it you know, it takes a lot of effort. And sometimes you have to interview individual kids to say, okay, what did you do? How did you do this? Yeah. Where did you learn that?
TEXT> Right. That's a nice a nice example of why the state test. It's the only data we have. But it's really not high value data. No. And so I want to distinguish between those two things. We do a lot of local assessments that are common between classrooms. That gives us a very short time frame. Look at what a student's been able to accomplish, at what instructional methods were used to get the students to that point so that we can make adjustments there, and so that those local assessment data pieces, though not consistent and not nationally measured,  are very useful for us.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Any other questions or comments?

[R14654-344] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: up in the first place on the first round. And they're still relevant right now. We we need to look at ways in which there are there are three major historical factors that deeply affect the success in academic achievement of the students in Claremont.
TEXT> One is  the historical turnover that we've alluded to before, to 20 plus percent of staff turning over on a regular basis for a variety of reasons, that that that's a significant one.  Alignment of curriculum and focus on grade level interventions before a kid falls down completely and doesn't do well where we're  remedying them as they as they go through the school year and looking for that achievement. And I think lastly is the overall,  consistency and bolstering of students feeling successful all the way and wrapping more supports around them. This is the primary focus from the  from, you know, way in the before time when the principals got together and when we had one  started from a meeting where we were asking, is there another way? And I say this to to you not to be dramatic, but if the data has been consistently and even if you if we teased all those numbers out, you would see, with very few exceptions, the range in which we have consistently been below. And then we recover. Right, particularly and you'll see the trend. Feel free to look at it in depth at home.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: At home, over time we recover in literacy. In high school, we, there's only a few consistent trends that you can see in there with the restructure and in terms

[R14654-345] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: you if we teased all those numbers out, you would see, with very few exceptions, the range in which we have consistently been below. And then we recover. Right, particularly and you'll see the trend. Feel free to look at it in depth at home.
TEXT> At home, over time we recover in literacy. In high school, we,  there's only a few consistent trends that you can see in there with the restructure and in terms of early literacy gains in a student,  the there's plenty of data on there. And we have a list online that you can follow those links to look at some of the studies. Seminal study was done a long, long time ago, about 15 or 20 years,  and has been the early literacy intervention and focus that if a student is learning to,  is reading to learn, going in third to fourth grade versus just learning to read, and then they're mastering that. And then going forward, there's linkages to that perseverance rates in middle school and high school and overall graduation rate and attainment and secondary head as well. That's the backdrop for what I'm going to say next in terms of recommendations for things. And when we start with that committee,  the idea is that if we did have grade levels and I didn't show you all the other staffing, there's still some things to do with that that we'll talk to with  when we have people from the community and our team and things like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But there's really no doubt that it behooves us to move our pre-K program that is currently housed here into the regular elementary schools. That program is designed to have

[R14654-346] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: idea is that if we did have grade levels and I didn't show you all the other staffing, there's still some things to do with that that we'll talk to with when we have people from the community and our team and things like that.
TEXT> But there's really no doubt that it behooves us to move our pre-K program that is currently housed here into the regular elementary schools. That program is designed  to have  at risk students, special ed students with typical peers.  And if we put that in a regular elementary school, no matter what,  they will have a more typical experience in the  in terms of social play. And then early literacy gains. The sooner you have them in, in achieving the better in, the sooner you have them in the environment in which they will end up being in their successful and acclimated to the better. So that is that is a big driver for for doing that. There are also approximately ten staff members between the teachers and the and  the paraprofessionals in the like here that would complement that. So that is that is no doubt going to be part and parcel. And we've looked at it for a few years now  of any restructure that that is that is one element that that has to happen. They themselves, the people in the early childhood program, we've met with them. They were excited to be a part of this. They want to be right in there  showing their perspective and really championing that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that that's that's been a wonderful to hear them speak about that. But that that is why we're looking at that, at doing that, having a student. And I'll

[R14654-347] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that is one element that that has to happen. They themselves, the people in the early childhood program, we've met with them. They were excited to be a part of this. They want to be right in there showing their perspective and really championing that.
TEXT> So  that that's that's been a wonderful to hear them  speak about that. But that that is why we're looking at that, at doing that, having a student. And I'll just run through quickly the classic  what we heard before, what we heard before to  from the community after they, they kicked this  plan around about a year ago  in actually even before that and then recently in  not last summer, but the summer before was they remembered historically in the community that they had done this before in terms of growth, when there was more population, less population, they had divided out the grades and they were very  resilient to the idea in it was feasible and it works. And there were many more students in the Claremont Public Schools at that time. One of the things  that we have to  determine, which is why we bought the very sophisticated bussing software to model, was exactly how we could pull out and how we could fine tune and show the numbers of how we would,  make sure the routes could happen. Because there was a concern amongst the  amongst the community about  transporting students. And I think we're going to be able to put that notion to rest as well, and then preserve the low class sizes  in the K and pre K, and the focus from this from the start. And this is the part that we still have to vet.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We've we've modeled it preliminary. And we want to show some of the efficiencies. We don't know the the degree to which we could offer more pre-K okay. All the

[R14654-348] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we're going to be able to put that notion to rest as well, and then preserve the low class sizes in the K and pre K, and the focus from this from the start. And this is the part that we still have to vet.
TEXT> We've we've modeled it preliminary. And we want to show some of the efficiencies. We don't know the the degree to which we could offer more pre-K okay. All the way through even full day pre-K was proposed last time. And that's something that we would do in a couple of vetting and have a proposal to to further go forward. So,  that is that is what we  that's what we intend to do. And those are the numbers on the slide of, of how the class sizes will, will remain  in right now. I'm talking I'm sorry. It's been a long day for the restructuring model two. And that is the one where they would go to each elementary school. And the other one above is if we could have the same efficiencies, and I don't think we would have them to scale, frankly, because we still have to have to move students  out. And we wouldn't have the concentration of the approximate number of teachers per grade.  As I said, for the example before, of 7 or 8 teachers  per grade,  which we we would be able to reduce them and still maintain some of the  same numbers if we had, let's say we had seven and we could go to six.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And one of those teachers was either stayed on board as an interventionist with another subset of students, or with or became an instructional coach. And moving from the model

[R14654-349] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: As I said, for the example before, of 7 or 8 teachers per grade, which we we would be able to reduce them and still maintain some of the same numbers if we had, let's say we had seven and we could go to six.
TEXT> And one of those teachers was either  stayed on board as an interventionist with another subset of students, or with  or became an instructional coach. And moving from the model that we've had traditionally, which many districts have traditionally of a pullout model of title one for interventions for individual kids, but rather build capacity with the whole group of students not abandoning title one for the individual kids, but building the capacity of each classroom and pushing in, as well as pulling out at the same time. These are things that we were are focused on  examining, and also the staff that we would have available to do that in order to keep staff in district and give them a path that they're gone. We have several teachers who are developing those leadership and intervention skills already, and we're excited about pursuing that. So that is that is exactly where we are from the earlier presentation. I know I did a speed round on it, but, that's what we're presenting between one or 1 or 2 of those models of the intervention. We're going to meet with the group,  have that committee, and we had a bunch of folks from the previous round.  We have been in touch with them. We hope that we have  we hear from them again.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think we had 20 or 30 folks on the very first round, and we had a lot of people that at the, in the summer. To two summers ago

[R14654-354] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'And frank first' [238] -> [240] | 2022-10-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: We're.
TEXT> Using, your example, if somebody's got 24 kids and somebody in a different school has 12, yeah, you put them in one school and they've each got 18.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. And you can.

[R14654-363] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I mean, is that what they have or what they need.
TEXT> That's how many classrooms are in the school. So there yeah that's how many classrooms, number of classes. I just wish it in the okay the numbers. So  but there are 22. And I was most skeptical at Maple and I did count count that one all the way through. There might be an adjustment. The reason I was, the reason I wanted to focus that even on the preliminary data, is so that you could see when you convert those, there are some  things you have to do. Sometimes  the younger kids have to be on the the lower floors.  You have little bathrooms for toileting and things like that that have to be adjusted. Very easy swap outs overall, not not anything prohibitive that we saw even all through Covid and even prior to that, on our first round, we walked all the facilities with the fire department looking for anything that would be prohibitive  in terms of code and things like that. And just about everything was to work around and was greenlit to go forward with the whole thing. So I don't throw in a lot, acted quickly, but it's been a while. Yeah.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Where we may have to do some retrofits on toilets and so on and so forth. It would that be able to be used with Esser money to do those

[R14654-368] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Heather.' [446] -> [447] 'T | 2022-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Just.
TEXT> Quickly, just for people that are perhaps tuning in that have are new to the area or are wondering why we're really considering this. And. The board has been trying to improve academic achievement  and kind of leaning into the idea of education equity. And in our current system that we have right now,  we have,  certain schools, just because of location, have a very high concentration of free and reduced lunch kids. There's a lot of data that supports that. When you have high concentrations of poverty in school and negatively affects test scores. So  by not having geography dictate what school you go to, kids will have experience with more model students that they may not have in their current school.  Also, we're looking to reduce the dramatic social transition that happens between elementary school and middle school and this district. That I think anybody who's been to the middle school here, our parents will echo that there's a real problem with clicks. And, part of that problem stems from that. They're coming. Fifth graders are coming from three different schools and establish their their friend groups, and then everybody collides in  junior high. And with this model, you would kind of follow your entire peer group all the way through. Everybody would be, you know, and all the fifth graders would know all the fifth graders.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And also to ensure that every child gets a very similar academic experience in our current system, they have very different academic experiences, to the point where there have been

[R14654-369] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Heather.' [446] -> [447] 'T | 2022-10-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: establish their their friend groups, and then everybody collides in junior high. And with this model, you would kind of follow your entire peer group all the way through. Everybody would be, you know, and all the fifth graders would know all the fifth graders.
TEXT> And also to ensure that every child gets a very similar academic experience in our current system,  they have very different academic experiences, to the point where there have been comments from,  educators at the Claremont Middle School that have that they can tell which school a kid comes from, elementary school kid comes from based on their skill set. And so this I know that Mike pointed out that some concerns were voiced by the community, that this was being done for budgeting purposes, but there's really a a real global education based reason why we're we're looking to tackle this, even though it seems to be very disruptive. So that's all I just wanted to throw out to anybody.
NEXT> Unidentified: Who is.

[R14654-374] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: block in. It doesn't look like that. That's the one we want to move for two right now, teachers teach three classes a day and a flex where they also meet students needs, where our proposal is that they move to teaching 560 minute classes.
TEXT> They're actually 56 with a four minute passing time. I tried to stay parallel on this just to explain it.  There's three lunches that you see there. That proposal that Mr. Pratt and his team have is to have two lunches next year.  Cuts down on the transitions, allows for the, you know, enough time in between lunches.  Very progressive schedule. This next part  of the of the  other, this is a common thing,  that that that happens in other other states trying to max out what you can do in between the blocks. So you can see with a 90s R and those are actually going to be, I believe, 84 or 82 or something with the other  with the fifth, I think they're 84 is with the fifth,  56 and 28 minutes, meaning half of a half of  a full block in addition to. So that's  how they're in between where and you see it side by side. So the left side actually where the c r sr   tc  is that's actually where the, the high school would be. The better graphic is, would be if that's over in the other column. And then the 60 minutes apply to what's going on at Stevens so that a kid can take if they go to one of the one access one of those in between blocks for a year, they they would have stuff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What's known when you're scheduled backed up on the other side. They would be able to access a partial class, still get the text last class and come back for

[R14654-377] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of of of just a tremendous increase of time on learning, building the core, not dropping out interventions, academic center supports. And and it's just a much more conducive to success. It's tougher. And the other thing I'll mention the other things. I'm sorry I'm.
TEXT> You also have  you don't have the disruption okay.  The traditional block schedules have where for example, I'm a freshman, I have algebra my freshman year,  first semester. I don't have another math course until second semester. My sophomore year, I lose that continuity of building, building block construction. It's not lined as as it can be when you have three, four years of math and you have particularly teachers  in departments in the same types of entry level  gateway courses, like in algebra, one would be the same for an advanced kid in eighth grade, maybe the same teacher who teaches eighth grade, who can also teach that to freshmen and sophomores at another school because the schedule is a lie. Enormous economy of scale savings on the but on the budget side and on the consistency side of almost having a looping effect in an academy approach from going from eighth grade and knowing the teacher and then coming up all kinds of gains. We're just getting into it. I feel like I'm on a game show right there. Some schedules okay. But but  but that's that's what we're excited about. And also the games for students. I'll stop there if you have questions.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Questions comments or Mr.. Mr..

[R14654-380] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Is there a problem with the contract? Is 25 minute lunches for staff?
TEXT> No. So staff always have the always have the contract language. That's the time for kids. So right right now  in terms of who covers the cap duties and all the other things. Yeah. It's not everything that we presented me. Yeah. So explain that if you've done cap duty, you know.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I.

[R14654-384] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So anybody who thinks lunch duty lunch is too short has never done a lunch duty. Oh, yeah. So Monday says Monday over there. Tuesday. And tentative. Yeah. So are these both on the table? Is these two things you're looking at or is that.
TEXT> No. So the tentative schedule, the the one to the the big one to the right is what it is for the whole. Yeah. What I try to use I  would argue not as successfully as Mr. Practical is, is to show how the flex will go through each day. It's a different day. So basically if they're going to use flex for the, for the whole period or things like that, it would take away from the first period class, it would take away from the second period class, and it would rotate through so that even though it is a fixed block schedule, kids would remain in the class and or go out to get remediation in the other flex model.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah, you'd have to dramatically adjust the graduation requirements if you want with that too, because they can only get five credits a year. Yeah.

[R14654-406] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Josh, and then Whitney' [ | 2022-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Do you  are there. What's the what's the snack policy or students allow date snacks and. Class there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There is an opportunity for them to. It depends on the snacks. I don't know where you are with that, but they also have a breakfast option and stuff available

[R14654-407] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Do you are there. What's the what's the snack policy or students allow date snacks and. Class there.
TEXT> There is an opportunity for them to. It depends on the snacks. I don't know where you are with that, but they also have a  breakfast option and stuff available when they come in, which is  particularly students who are there,  after school for, you know, clubs, drama, sports, they, they kind of plan accordingly with that. So yeah. And I also want to say in I asked Mr. Pratt for this ahead of schedule, he's still working with, with his team. It's not all the way resolved, but it's a closer model of where they're ending up and even even then,  you know, showing how the, the flex goes through and other things that are brought up. We'll do that in committee,  and really get we show you another polished version of it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Lunch is a is a tricky thing to schedule because I, I definitely hear feedback sometimes that lunches too early and the you know so some lunch people feel it's

[R14654-416] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Stephen made the second' [15];  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Stephen.
TEXT> I'm, you know, I'm actually rather concerned about the lunch thing as well, and I'm, I see it's an hour to set up. Basically not the exact minute between. Is that more of a staffing issue  as far as what we have for staff to accommodate that? Because it's not like you're moving to a new lunchroom. So it's there, you clean up quick and you put out the new. It's kind of what I'm thinking and I'm it's not you're only serving 260 kids, 270 kids at a time. If you're splitting exactly at half that, you're serving that many kids once again, how many lunch? I mean, it doesn't doesn't seem that I think we could tighten it up a little bit is what I'm getting at, because that just seems excessive.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The the part is, my apologies to Mr. Pratt. It's not just because he's here. I kind of coaxed him out of getting these slides out of them prematurely. Just

[R14654-451] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Bonnie Miles: So when's this going to be up and running?
TEXT> So I think they have this, this 500 will be applied to it. I think it costs about,  a  few  thousand, but they're looking for other funds, the student account fund  in donations to get it going.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Is that anything the tech here can help build help.

[R14654-481] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [0] and runs  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: let's take half of it put into a special ed reserve for when you have these very large expense placements that come in surprise, you and the other half went back to taxpayers. So it was set at 650 and it is still at 650.
TEXT> The thought of that is also that we have we often have kids that move into district. That can be as for three.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: To $500,000.

[R14654-483] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [0] and runs  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: To $500,000.
TEXT> It can be expensive. Kids have to be placed. And so, you know, 250, $500,000 you're not budgeted for. So that account is there in case you have something like that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R14654-489] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mr. Tempesta with the superintendent's  | 2022-10-05
PREV> Ben Nester: to add bonuses to the pair of contract as an example. Again, I'll defer to Mike on the use of those funds for sort of additional bonuses, perhaps outside the negotiated agreements. But it really does boil down to staffing some of our compliance issues.
TEXT> Yeah.  And we are looking at those things. One thing and  I that's why I put up this slide on the restructuring again. And,  and there are a couple of things that jumped out the staffing at the middle school and high school that you notice. But one thing I, I think the people at home should know, and the board should know, is if you look at the restructure model two in the yellow and then you look at the out of district numbers, you see something that is a direct effect of what was put in place  a few years ago. You don't it is not a mistake. You don't see any students out placed until the sixth grade right now. That's amazing to be able to create those programs in district.  There are only a couple  in. You can also we can talk more and we can do in more in depth studies on things like that. But we are servicing kids in their community. We are it is costly. It is a lot of work.  It is susceptible to downturns and being able to hire powers and teachers and transients that has permeated everywhere  in the region and nationally, where people are  more marketable because of the demands. And  we've seen some flight for that and we've adjusted for that.  But  some of the historical stuff is still there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're also trying to, to look at how we can look at all our bargaining units. And I can, you know, only talk publicly about some of that and

[R14654-495] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (not named on the recording; iden | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, so are we running all of our specialty or in-house placement programs? Are they all operating? We are in all capacity.
TEXT> They're not all at capacity in terms of students. I mean, I could go through the list.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But I'm talking it's not an issue one k through five, but I'm talking six, seven and eight. Do we have programing for those kids.

[R14654-497] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (not named on the recording; iden | 2022-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: But I'm talking it's not an issue one k through five, but I'm talking six, seven and eight. Do we have programing for those kids.
TEXT> So at the middle school we have programing for life skills students. That's that's running that's operating again on a shoestring but it is operating. But the the biggest hole is  behavior social emotional programing at the middle school. We don't have a teacher or paraprofessionals running that program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is that.

[R14654-502] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (not named on the recording; iden | 2022-10-05
PREV> Mr. Pratt: That.
TEXT> Is that is our biggest hole right now is the middle school. And then the high school is running life skills. We're actually at the highest numbers we've ever seen since I've been around at about 18 students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is that Kelly's program?

[R14654-510] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Josh' [258] -> [259] 'fro | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: And it's you know nine 51st May see this, but.
TEXT> That's like I'm hoping my thing will be quick.  Great job. Just brought to  my attention this afternoon. Are we suspending students at Stevens for five Tardis.
NEXT> Unidentified: I iss.

[R14654-516] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Josh' [258] -> [259] 'fro | 2022-10-05
PREV> Michael Koski: Should have had Christina there.
TEXT> The concern was that  students who are taking care of other family members like other like younger siblings or stuff like it might be very difficult to get to school in the morning and giving the ES is just going to knock them down further. So yeah, that's something we can explore.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. Okay.

[R14681-21] Unidentified | Student representative to the board (name garbled - ASR 'Sandra featur | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Oh, we are on to citizens comments. So any comments from citizens that, not related to agenda items? Seeing none, we're going to move on to the student rep report. Sandra featuring.
TEXT> So from bluff. I didn't get any update from dessert.  Desert is having Scholastic Book Fair this week, and they had a Unity Day today where everyone were orange to support bullying prevention. And Maple is also having Scholastic Book Fair this week. They also just had their title one meeting tonight, and they have been doing a lot of cool art projects the last couple of weeks. See, Ms. is having their fall festival this Saturday. They're also having Spirit Week this week. And their sports have been going well. And Stephens Student Council is hosting a community food drive this month. Sports are also going well and Key Club is hosting a fundraiser this month.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Any questions or comments, Frank? So for the food drive, how do people in.

[R14681-50] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [78]-[114]; a | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: we can reserve board questions and comments until discussion and action is. Everybody's going to that. All right. Seeing nothing further from the public, we're going to move out of the public session into a regular board meeting. We start off with the superintendent's report.
TEXT> All right. So  superintendents report that you see up there. I had a lot of help from my friends, as they say, the Beatles.  But we were looking at and we, we wanted to present and we wanted to some of the questions  about what we were already doing, how how we were intervening for students from the last meeting. We wanted to follow up with that and then show and I think to,  what Miss Hawkins just said, exactly what what we're looking to do with the money. So. And they will. They'll join in this part of the presentation as well. So the first that's coming up after this, okay. So the first, the first part that I had is a  report out on our first meeting with the,  with the elementary restructuring subcommittee where we put out that, that,  we put out a survey. We had about 30 people, about 25 after we excluded ourselves when we test as testers when.  So it was accurate to go out. And  we met on Monday, and we're going to meet this Monday as well.  And  we reviewed kind of I did an update of, of, of where we were with the restructuring from before. And,  and we spoke about  the two models that that were presented before, also did a recap.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Then we got into a lot of questions and answers about next steps with this. And we summarize this in a couple of slides takeaways. And we're we're currently getting

[R14681-54] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [78]-[114]; a | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it for next year? That was that was the kind of the tenor of what if I could boil it down, people weren't necessarily against it. People saw merit in it. People had some points that wanted to that they felt we needed to explore.
TEXT> For example, could we get at the heart of the problem and define the problem  of  the achievement gaps and the things that we've been seeing for for decades? Is this the best way? Is it a combination of other approaches?  Is this the only way? And that's what we're going to have to resolve  on Monday. And we look forward to that. So to go through the social emotional well-being and it was kind of a point counterpoint,  I  presented the a point that,  one of the in the both models that we, we spoke about,  we called  one had one  more transition, meaning that there would be a pre-K to three.  And as we  presented it, that maybe Disney and Maple would be those two, and then four and five would finish at bluff. And  that was one model. The other model was if we had students attend each of the elementary schools. So that would have two transitions in that. And  we spoke and just again surfaced all the issues  about, is it good for the emotional well-being to have that many transitions?  Versus might it be good if we only had one transition and then they could also bond as a whole class in fourth and fifth at bluff before they go to the middle school and meet for the first time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We spoke about the academic growth and people wanted to know. And we also focused that from our perspective, we thought that we could really focus in on. Let's say

[R14681-63] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (spelling uncertain - Skillen: 'Mr. Ko | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: range from enrichment to some intensive intervention, we want to be once we once we've identified the student needs with the assessment tools we are using currently, we want to be able to intervene and move the students along their path, whatever that may be.
TEXT> And in in using those materials, we're also going to need to train our teachers up a little bit to get them  using them well. And so that has some cost to it.  And then we'll the plan is to continue to monitor those results and adjust, so that they remain effective. And just to be a little more specific in the LA and math, for example, K to five, we are piloting programs currently and and those have been purchased and they are in the schools soon. This year we're going to start to analyze those pilots and see if which ones are programs that we're going to adopt. And so that's where we would need to purchase materials, purchase programs and use this extraordinary grant money. And that's both  for L, A and K to five and then math 6 to 8. And then there are also and the acronym MTS goes back to that. First it's a multi-tiered student support system.  It will get those support materials that would again range from enrichment to, intensive intervention materials.  There is a mistake on the slides and apologize. The 2324 is incorrect. This would be for this year those purchases.
NEXT> Michael Koski: And then we would just continue to move along that path. So we have again yellow things we're already doing. We're assessing K to five both Ela and math with

[R14681-64] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (spelling uncertain - Skillen: 'Mr. Ko | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: that. First it's a multi-tiered student support system. It will get those support materials that would again range from enrichment to, intensive intervention materials. There is a mistake on the slides and apologize. The 2324 is incorrect. This would be for this year those purchases.
TEXT> And then we would just continue to  move along that path. So we have again yellow things we're already doing. We're assessing K to five both Ela and math with several tools. We have  Sass modular and  the Georgia Numeracy Project in math. But then the sass module is also in the LA and science. And those would be used grades 3 to 8. And then in the one grade in high school as directed by the grant.  We're working towards consistent implementation of those tools. And the, the last piece in L.A. we are creating or have created anchor essay rubrics. It's kind of a no cost,  initiative, but it helps each teacher to measure their students writing in the same way. And so it's it's the anchor by which all their student writing is going to be measured. We would like to be able to purchase for the middle school another assessment system so we can better measure their growth. We have a K to five tool for Ela reading and writing.  And we would like to get some some middle school tools in there also. And so  I'm sorry going back. So we're, we're planning on using this extraordinary grant money to extend and continue the work that we've already started. It would give us  it would just give us that little bit of a boost to, to move along a little bit faster on, on this learning curve. And it brings us back here.
NEXT> Michael Koski: So we're really again on that right hand side. But we're trying to do this wraparound service piece around the students. And we'd like to use that money to increase

[R14681-65] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (spelling uncertain - Skillen: 'Mr. Ko | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: money to extend and continue the work that we've already started. It would give us it would just give us that little bit of a boost to, to move along a little bit faster on, on this learning curve. And it brings us back here.
TEXT> So we're really again on that right hand side. But we're trying to do this  wraparound service piece around the students. And we'd like to use that money to increase our professional development and get those curriculum adoptions into the hands of our teachers faster than we probably could have otherwise. And that. Any questions?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Where do we want.

[R14681-141] Stephanie Hurst | Literacy specialist, SAU 6 (self-identified, ASR 'I am Stephanie Harri | 2022-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: These things.
TEXT> But the the caliber of what we need, what is needed to be able to bring all of our programs up to speed. We need that tier one, which is,  if you've ever seen the triangle, the layer one of instruction that all students receive. We've not had an adoption in some time. And all the teachers that will attest to this that we need to decide what we're using and stick to it and not have any changes. So we'd like to implement the best program for that. Some of it has been implemented but not voted on with our curriculum council. So in addition to that, we need the title one materials for a large gamut of needs. So once the student doesn't receive tier one instruction, that's that's feasible for their educational gains. We need to have a menu of different programs we can use to highlight different skill deficits. So there's not a program. There's like ten programs. We need to be able.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To fill it. So I'll ask it again. Could we use title one money for some of the stuff. Some of.

[R14681-206] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized 'Heather' [139], [304],  | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Heather, than Frank. Then we'll go to public if the public has any questions or any comments.
TEXT> I think that the general feeling or what I feel, and the somewhat of the anxiety that I have, is that the the conversations about how money is going to be spent and how we're going to hold the district accountable for the expenditures and follow up and make sure  it seems to fall apart. And, so I think there is a little anxiety about, you know, great expectations and then we then something, then the money disappears. And I think that's something that the public is seeing and, and I'm not, you know, pointing fingers or making anybody a boogeyman or a bad guy, but I think it's a real anxiety. And so  when people in the public are addressing these, these concerns and I'm wanting very specific things, and when the board is looking for very specific things, I think they're, they're, they're valid. They're valid fears. And, we want to approve things. We want things to happen, but we want to make sure that that dollars are actually being spent in a way that serves students best.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I just want to clarify where I'm coming from for Josh's sake and those who are who are listening. Two weeks ago, we decided we were going to do

[R14681-228] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified 'I'm Arlene Hawkins from War | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Koski: Bill built into the the extraordinary grant proposal or money we already have.
TEXT> Well, what I saw and I had seen it on the website, is that you already had the. Ela program pilots. So then you do need to. To. Purchase those pilots if they prove to be what you want, correct. Use them. So once those are already budgeted, you also have the assessments the teachers are assessing. Their students assessment is important, but more important is how do you analyze that and then implement those areas of weakness in the classroom and giving the teachers the tools and the strategies they need to make their time more efficient and have the time with the students be more successful for everybody, right?
NEXT> Michael Koski: Yeah.

[R14681-291] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized 'Heather' [139], [304],  | 2022-10-19
PREV> Whitney Skillen: one option. But if the voters say no and they vote again, they vote down article one, then that money just goes right back into the tax rate. Not that we lose it. It goes back to the state. It just reduces the tax, does.
TEXT> Not go into student.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Exactly and does not go into student.

[R14681-292] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I had Whitney and Josh' [356] - | 2022-10-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Not go into student.
TEXT> Exactly and does not go into student.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Make sure that was correct. That's right.

[R14681-304] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified 'Candace Crawford, Ward two' | 2022-10-19
PREV> Joshua Lambert: $0.80, candy.
TEXT> I really think candy Crawford Ward two I really think that you need, legal,  judgment on this because I've got a copy of the law, right? I mean, it says in order to receive an extraordinary need grant, which this is, the school district shall provide a plan to the Department of Education outlining how the district intends to improve the educational achievement of students. I don't see where it says. If you don't, it goes back to the taxpayers. I think that's where you need legal counsel.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: If we're so we're we're choosing to accept this money. And if this is the proposal of how to spend the money and how to use the money, if the

[R14681-362] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Are you ready for Bonnie now?'  | 2022-10-19
PREV> Bonnie Miles: they're going, I guess. But my concern is if someone gets hurt there and we haven't done our due diligence and just covered that up with just a strip of something bright, and I could come back to bite us. So that was a concern.
TEXT> But we didn't spend much time. We didn't spend much time on that. I heard there was a child in the last week or two had  was playing on the playground in the back, then got some metal splinters in his hand. And and Mr. Holt did say that that structure is in need or repair, but we're looking at about $8,000 for that now. There was a lot more we really touched on, and I only saw  he walked me through part of the middle school, which I would like to see more and learn more about it. And then we still have the high school that does not have the Maple Avenue. We got a lot to do in here, so I will gladly give you updates as as we go. But I think,  I think Mr. Holt is is a gem and we're lucky to have him. That's what I got.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can I, can I question so. So if I put new windows in my house in their energy efficient, I think I get a 30% tax credit for that. No.

[R14681-374] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member ('I agree with Josh' [283] after [280]-[ | 2022-10-19
PREV> Bonnie Miles: the doors into the classrooms, they turned, they went in instead of out like there was an emergency, dangerous to get out. But, I. I thank you for putting me on this committee because I'm really going to have a good time with this question.
TEXT> Thank you for bringing up the playground because it's it's outrageous. Yes. It's like there's metal stuff sticking out that I'm surprised has impaled a child. It's it's bad. Like, I grew up playing on that playground and I was surprised to see and just, you know, a few years I've grown past playing on the playground how, just outright dangerous it is at this point. So thank you for bringing that up.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I think anything else other for the capital improvement?

[R14681-385] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized 'Heather' [139], [304],  | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: Nothing there. The elementary restructuring committee, I think we've gotten that report from Mike. Schedule. I just have a question waiting.
TEXT> So with the restructuring that we only have 30 people respond from students, the parents of students that are being affected.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Are.

[R14681-427] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Frank, first' [198] -> [199 | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Petrin: for your hard work. I don't remember threes elementary restructuring. We got into that quite a bit, so I'm not sure if there's anything more, at this point. Yes, I'm. Further discussion of questions or comments for this, I see. Frank Flippen, are we all,
TEXT> I am I hit I had emailed  the board, the vice chair, vice chair and superintendent about because somebody had come in. It  may have been Mrs. Hawkins and was talking about the dropout rate and such, and I think I saw  dropouts somewhere on here. And,  so it would be it would be interesting. What I'm really interested in is, not necessarily the number of kids that are dropping out, but why they're dropping out. And I don't know if that I know that information doesn't exist really statistically, because, I mean, we know what type of dropout it is, but we don't really know why they dropped out. So it'd be very interesting, I think in planning future planning, if we're going to be looking at dropout intervention to figure out why kids are dropping out and,  the and so I don't know if the guidance counselors can sort of look through the lists and sort of try to recall why kids dropped out for a year or two. But I think that'd be very interesting to know why they dropped out and and how many kids were close to making it. I mean, I get it. If a kid only had five credits in their 18, then they dropped out. But if they had, if they had 19 credits and they dropped out, why why is that?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Is that a a look at a future agenda item?

[R14681-430] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [78]-[114]; a | 2022-10-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. But I think it ties into what some of the analysis data analysis that this, that this plan talked about, I think I think it does.
TEXT> I  so we there is a way to get the reported dropout, data, you know, that we report it to the state and we've looked at that, we've looked at it, it kind of ten year trends, all the other types of things to do a to do. I think where you're going with this, like the underlying, the underlying concern for me is the students who drop out much earlier or, or move to a home school or move to  or something else happens to look down and kind of do a cohort analysis backwards from, say, 22. Back ten years. But to, to pull that kind of information, we there's no doubt it can be done. But it also might it's it's a lot to pull but  but that's until you know that, you know, we can look at the numbers I can pull. I looked at them today. I can see, you know,  some of that. But we don't we don't. It's the why that you're right. Why to dig in per councilor that I agree. That's what I'm most curious about myself.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, I there was back in the day when we when SB 18 was put in place, which was the raising the dropout age from 16 to 18, the state

[R14681-435] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Are you ready for Bonnie now?'  | 2022-10-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Last year.
TEXT> So I have a question. Does the school counselor is not the person that knows why that child has dropped out?
NEXT> Michael Koski: They might.

[R14681-442] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [78]-[114]; a | 2022-10-19
PREV> Bonnie Miles: A better than that.
TEXT> No,  no. So they, they, they, they were assigned as they do know, the students. They do check in.  Sometimes there are other reasons.  Why sometimes  families move transients  all kinds of where they, where they won't get to the, the core of it. But they, they know what our counselors really know. The students. They they do. Our teachers do, our administrators do. I don't want to give a but it's  with our demographic and the transient nature of our demographic and, and some of the impacts. It's it's hard.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I've had students enroll in school and stay as shorter period as one day and then drop out. That was in Newport and a student enrolled from the mountain district.

[R14727-43] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: initial comments in finding a recommendation. Number one, and that person takes vacation in in August and no one else is designated to pick up the functions during that time. Then then recommendations postings sit and you don't have that kind of time in August.
TEXT> In August is a time. July and August are times when you're dealing with personnel issues, when when everyone needs to behave as if their hair is on fire because it is literally in terms of making sure there are quality teachers in front of kids. So our recommendation is to institute regular cross training for essential functions, particularly ASAP frontline. There are others.  I, we gave the example in the report of of something we did, which was a very simple fix in say, 21. We had an assistant to the assistant superintendent and an assistant to our HR manager, and they were both trained in front line. They were both trained in assault. They were both trained in a number of things. So literally to people in our schools, in our five different districts, but but our schools, no one really knew if Holly was out or if Deb was out. That was transparent to people in the building. And it needs to be transparent to people in the buildings. Those functions need to continue when those people, those people are out. And that only happens by making sure that people are cross trained.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: Okay, so here's the one that bill preempted. Well, again, these these these interrelate so much and are really all dependent upon each other. And there's a core that needs

[R14727-48] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: We ask that in just about every interview, and we heard lots and lots of ideas as to why people leave and why you're seeing what's perceived in the district as a in the districts, as a larger than normal number of of of exits.
TEXT> And you really won't have an answer to what, what those things actually are. Well, all we'll have is, is our theories, our ideas.  Unless you have data. And really the only way to get data is to is to talk to people who are leaving and have a formal sort of exit interview process. And there are lots of ways to do that. Some of them are less,  you know, staff intensive than others. And on this last piece of position advertising, I think the only comment I would add to what to what Doctor Wilson said is, is we've we've suggested in the report that you, you know, you do some of that by asking your teachers.  It's important for people to get together and have those conversations. But it's also, you have a number of people who've been there for some number of years and who stay and who obviously love your districts and love working with your kids and and being where they are and involve them in sort of, you know, what's the kinds of things that we should be emphasizing to people. We heard some of those.
NEXT> William Lupini: We heard a number of those things, some of them very practical things, health insurance, those kinds of things, others of them more what what is what does work environment

[R14727-63] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: in the right way, right through the right processes. And that just creates hard feelings all around. And so it's really important to have all that laid out and have it understood by, by everyone. So we have these additional areas which I said earlier.
TEXT> We, we, we felt we felt the need to comment on just because of who we are.  I spent a  good part of my early teaching career, and then a few years later in my career in a, in a, career in tech school  center. And so we took particular interest to, to that as a first area.  And, and just  wanted to comment that,  that that's a very valuable resource and,  that we think could benefit  more students. There are there are lots of ways to do that. We mentioned in the report the need to explore additional programs, but but where labor data supports those career opportunities,  partnerships with business and industry and community colleges.  And and granting something we were working on with Exeter in our area in say 21.  Granting students graduation credit. Academic credit if you will, particularly in mathematics, science and English language arts through their career and tech programs, which which state law does allow.  And it really helps circumvent some of the challenges with students missing out on elections and those kinds of things when they choose to go to the career and tech center. We just think that that's a very valuable resource.
NEXT> William Lupini: And we know, you know that. We know you have a task force looking at that. And wanted to make sure we commented on it. The second area is the

[R14727-66] Dr. Ann Wilson | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent ('Doctor Wilson | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: to assess how you're doing and make modifications, as, as necessary. So again, not within the charge of what we were asked to do. But but we're former superintendents that we hope you forgive our, our need to to comment on these areas as well.
TEXT> Yeah. We just couldn't help ourselves.  So so I know we just threw at you  a lot a lot of information, a lot of recommendations. A lot of you must do this. We can we really emphasize this?  I want to go back to a positive part here  in the conclusion of our presentation. The people we interviewed really expressed positive attitudes about their work. And here's the key. They're willing to collaborate to provide the best possible services for students, staff in the communities of Claremont and Unity and and  not what a what a positive that is  the second one also a challenge and a positive. It is a time of transition.  A lot of new people at the saw, but this is a great opportunity to do that big picture thinking, take the time to do it  and evaluate the needs of the certificate. And while you're doing that and you're putting people in positions to make sure that they have the right skills and right expertise,  and that you take the time to provide that training, that cross training, and that ongoing commitment to developing individuals and having them work together. And then finally, you know, if the school boards and the administrative team work together to engage in even some of this work,  we really believe that the s will be more efficient, more focused on the  various needs of the stakeholders.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: But ultimately, what we all, why we all do what we do is to improve outcomes for students. So again, lot here, a lot to digest, a lot of really

[R14727-78] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> Dr. Ann Wilson: the budget calendar and and processing, cross training, some people at that central office and identifying who is going to be responsible for what, getting that out to the staff that those things are key. First they'll I know you probably want to add something.
TEXT> No. I agree with that. And I think I think those,  you know, I mean, throughout this we, we tried to comment that, that, that work that you just talked about,  is, is actually in many ways more important than the positions. Right. And, and, and  and I think that's right. I think it is. People need to have those, those kinds of documents or references in front of them. I mean, I think, I think if I was talking about a position, I think I would say we need to deal with HR and we need to deal with it soon.  Right. And it would be the priority because because that's the one that felt in these interviews in particular, like it's directly impacting kids. Right. And so, you know, I don't want put myself in Mr. Tempesta seat, but it's hard having done it for that long. Not to. That would be an area that I would say, along with these processes that I would want to get, I would want to make sure I had that organizational structure in place long before I was ready to go through my next round of hiring, next, you know, May into August. So, that would be where I would those would be the areas I would add talked about in an HR is what I would try to prioritize.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Heather.

[R14727-105] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board member, attending via Zoom  | 2022-11-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: You know, we're not doing hiring somebody, friend or whatever, but we're actually hiring people that know what they're doing. I think that's very, very important. I just wanted to jump on the assistant principal recommendation. Having had. I actually had that job at Stevens.
TEXT> I was not an assistant principal. However, I was a student services director. And my background, I was,  certified as a guidance counselor, a guidance director and principal. And so I had a pretty substantial background in that,  and a discipline was part of what I did. But it was the supervision of of special ed and guidance. So again, I had I they felt and I felt that I had the qualifications for that. I was not a typical AP, so I think that was and I think Ben had the same job I did. And again, I think it's morphed into just being a straight AP. But  ten years ago it was a position where,  it was less of an AP and more of a, of a student services coordinator. So, yeah.
NEXT> William Lupini: And, and I think you're always going to have to keep that in mind because, I, you know, I gave the example. So I spent 11 years where I had

[R14727-111] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [28]; 'Thank  | 2022-11-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: having a new team where everyone came from. And obviously, you know, when we hired we hire for for where we see the gaps are. But our team now, in particular the curriculum team, as you heard glowingly and we feel that way as well.
TEXT> But people came from very different circumstances, some from like districts, some with math somewhat literacy, all not far from the teaching directly with students as well. So there's there's still that relevancy and street cred, as it were, with the staff that that that's great. So all of that's good. But we  and  like like any new team.  We're, we're, we're working on all of those things. And I can't say enough about where I think we're going and all of all of  in positively. So it's it's great and it will be great hopefully once we solve some of these issues to be out back in the buildings  more often for, for some of us, and also just switching up a few things I think can get us there. So it was it was great to to validate how we feel sometimes  in saw, where we know the challenges are with us  and also having a third party do it and and where anyone can let it fly. And  it's a it's a very authentic report I think.
NEXT> William Lupini: So it was great to work with you again.

[R14727-145] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [28]; 'Thank  | 2022-11-16
PREV> Bonnie Miles: says there appears to be a lack of clarity, consistency and timeless regarding assessment, essential human resource functions. And then it goes down to say the SA should establish a primary and appropriately trained human resources lead position responsible for so. And that's that's why.
TEXT> I'm before we came on they used to have that position. The person left before we came on and we didn't fill it because we saw the need right away to staff the I, you know, they were I was. So prior to coming there, I was a superintendent and I was ran  a large special ed color also. So I was not convinced we necessarily needed that. The urgency of kids having core classes was resonated more with me on the way in, so that that and they were hiring. It was over the summer and we went for it, so to speak.
NEXT> Unidentified: So and the current coordinator position does not meet the need of the position they're recommending. I have a question about that position. Yeah. Wouldn't a qualified HR directors is

[R14822-239] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'discussion items under Superintendent T | 2023-01-03
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Are there any other comments on the Human Resource Director position? No. Overall in all, it was really well done. Thank you. I think this is something. You okay? And now we also have a data specialist position.
TEXT> Sure. So,  this position  we I  reviewed  and updated what we, what we had in there and also expanded a few things. So,  if you looked at over the SES student information system, we love our acronyms for for folks out there.  Ticketing  most currently  a power school  systems but also state reporting.  In checking and training of of  clerical staff being the point person for the AIS  system, also able to train  the people in the HR department for certification and things like that so that those are all cross-checked. Everything that is  submitted,  is also  double checked in for the course creation. I'm flipping toward the end and I'm just giving examples all the way through them. Not a section creation teacher assignment movement. The SIS assisting with the scheduling process is Stevens, the middle school and the tech center. We just put in everything that that I could think of and updated Grant SIS and users.
NEXT> Unidentified: This is kind of a.

[R14833-17] Unidentified | Public commenter, newly seated NH state representative on the House Ed | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: Motion by Heather. Second by Whitney. Any further discussion? All right. Seeing none. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Thank you. All right. We are on to citizens comments. Open the floor to citizens. Whose comments? On non-agenda items.
TEXT> School. I mean, state board reps. State house reps. Sorry. I am serving on education committee. I'm the only one of the five who is on education committee. So I'm here in part to hear from you and in part to make you aware of the opportunity to connect with me. Unfortunately, I don't have my state house business cards yet, but I'll leave my contact info and circulate them presumably next week whenever they come from the state. So just concisely, we've just started our  house sessions after quite a few days of orientation and education on the process and history and so forth during December. Education Committee is going to have about 125 bills out of the a little more than 800 that are submitted on all the various topics this season. So we are going to be a very busy committee. We had our first public hearings today.  The topics today arranged from membership of the State Advisory Committee on Education of Students with disabilities. Bills suggesting requiring teaching of communism, cursive writing and memorizing multiplication tables. Indemnity for private post-secondary career schools. Eligibility for school board membership. D reporting of charter school payments to the state. Education Committee.
NEXT> Unidentified: Tomorrow, the main event is a hearing on the bill that proposes to repeal the Divisive Concepts Law. There are also two other hearings. One is on adding the hotline

[R14833-39] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: I got.
TEXT> Your school resource officer number was what we were working on was around 60,000. And we're talking about a certified police officer with with a vehicle. And then if we look at the breakdown in the truant officer section, I do see that the cost has changed from what we originally working with, which is fantastic. However, the real question I had to myself is, is if I'm trying to get truant students to school, who's more effective? Well, you know what? For the price, a second police officer was looking pretty effective to me. So that was just, you know, one of the big ones that just glaringly stood out to me where I could save 30 plus zero $0, depending on how I decided to go about it. So being a  pretty smart numbers guy, I do it all day, every day in negotiating and having a basis cost line was was what I was looking for to to negotiate where we really should come out with this budget. Because we have a lot of big hurdles that we're trying to have to accommodate, but we have a lot of balls, and you're trying to focus on a few of those balls because it makes sense to reduce some of the balls until you get the the few main priorities handled and perfected first.
NEXT> Unidentified: I was the third member of the budget subcommittee. That's been on the committee for I was fighting to be pretty labor intensive, digging through all the numbers. It's a

[R14833-62] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: Tuition again to be flat.
TEXT> At the 750,000 for vocational. And the same way transportation fees which we received from the state. For. For.  Vocational same interest income, I left it at 30,000. There's been a significant uptick in interest rates. And probably look at increasing that somewhat pupil activities or monies that come out of our activity funds kept that where it is. Other is our contributions like we just approved in here. And that tends to be a number that is reasonably stable year over year. And then fund balance to reduce taxes. That is the surplus from this year, which we anticipate funding a part of next year. And again, that tends to be a reasonably stable number at roughly 1% of the budget.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do you typically have to vote on that to put that in there? No.

[R14833-69] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-11
PREV> Richard Seaman: now going to equalize all the communities, and your value really is in 750 million, it's almost $1 billion. So they charge us the 1.44% against the equalized billion dollars, not against the 750, which is what we do all of other tax stuff against.
TEXT> So what ends up happening is we've got a much larger amount of statewide property tax that we're paying to ourselves, which is offsetting what we get from the state in statewide education, tax or education grants, which are not a cost to us. So not only. Do. We see a reduction in our overall adequate education grant in based on the calculation, the mix between the two is detrimental. Now,  once we go through all of that, the catastrophic aid  on here is the reimbursement we're getting for special education expenses from two years ago. So when if a child has to be out placed above $60,000, we get some of that back from the state and above 190. Is that what it has been? Something we get 100% of it back, but it's based on two years ago. So we're funding the state. We're cash flow in the state for a couple of years. Nonetheless, we get it back and Medicaid and we have a superb Medicaid tracking program here done by Heidi Sprague  being brought in at $500,000. And the likelihood that we can outperform that. But these are the funding sources. And once you add them all up, you say, okay, what hasn't been funded? That's what shows up on the top line there. The district assessment increasing by $1.456 million. So it's increasing more than what our budget is going up. We can control the budget. We can't control the revenue.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Questions on this one. I know I was asked to just keep it as simple as I can. I just. Tried to, if I didn't do a good job at

[R14833-80] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, resigning after this meeting (chair: 'I | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: to duplicate, that program? And I spoke to the director of the tech over a new court, and, it's going to be a booming program over there. So the question that I have to the board is, do we want to support a duplicate program?
TEXT> That's the one who supports this program. I would have to say that it really doesn't make sense to have it in both places. I don't know much more. Oh yeah, I just said being a venomous supporter of the teacher education prep program, I don't see it as being, I don't see it as needing it in both places. Both locations. If we can avoid that cost. I'm all about getting more teachers out there. Believe me, I don't think having it in two places would. I mean, I don't think there's enough students to really feel two locations worth. I also.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Heard.

[R14833-122] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; Frank Sprague: 'I agree with M | 2023-01-11
PREV> Steven Horsky: if I'm wrong. There's a lot of a lot of numbers in years and cycles. I just want to make sure that I'm speaking correctly. Once again, I find more disappointment that we're looking at almost another parallel course. Or it could be questionably parallel.
TEXT> So yeah, just to clarify my understanding of the business worship, of course, here is to help any add to what the students are giving, getting in the club and the different courses, so they may be better prepared to go out and start their own business. Let's say that you here, but I'm not sure to me at this point that sounds like a full program or, or to start with, trying to get the, like I said, trying to maybe the teachers come and teach some and see where it goes, see the interest, and at least get the seed planted. Oh, I had Heather.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: From my $0.02 is that if I was going to preserve one of these programs, it would be the entrepreneurs program versus the business program. I think that just fits

[R14833-125] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Heather' [260, 666]; | 2023-01-11
PREV> Chris Pratt: I don't see why not.
TEXT> Okay. Because we have we have a business course already at the high school. Yeah, that's that's an elective opportunity. They're going to have the required personal finance. And if there's bandwidth within those two positions, my personal preference would be I don't know what anybody else feels it would be the entrepreneur course be held at the high school but would benefit the tech students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I think it's definitely worth something like that.

[R14833-128] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, resigning after this meeting (chair: 'I | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Kind of touched on it a bit. It's slightly different and that it caters to the tech kids. But  I guess my question would be if if business courses in general are very popular at Newport, how many of them aren't getting into that course and would come over here for the entrepreneurship option? So that's why I'm more more apt to keep that one, at least partially.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Unfortunately, I don't think we can have those answers, and so we have to make decisions based on.

[R14833-144] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Frank' [141, 752, 768, 7 | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: This horrible question.
TEXT> Okay.  So I just did some quick math. And so with the, the course that Mr. Pratt has described, if it's a half credit course, let's say 120 kids have to take it. So you have 20 in a section, six sections to half credit course teachers right now teach the equivalent of qualified credit. That's their that's their load. So it's really a half position to to deal to offer what Mr. Pratt just described. It's a half time position. It's not a full time. Yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If we keep that one position to offer that entrepreneurial course.

