[R17134-14] Matt Bean | Citizen commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified; ASR renders the name 'Matt | 2026-02-04
PREV> Matt Bean: respect to the last ten years of action that the Stevens Athletics has brought us with a listing of the runners up in their championships. I was there on Sunday during football lifting, and I literally just looked at the banners and made a list.
TEXT> 2023 Unified Track runner up 2023 bowling runner up 2024 bowling state champions 2025. This year with a with an unorthodox funding model. State champs undefeated 2022 unified track state champions 2021 and 2022. Bowling state champions 2019. Bowling state champions 2023. Wrestling state champion 2020. Golf. Runner up 2020. Football. Runner up 2017. Boys basketball runner up 2016. Boys soccer runner up 2016. Bowling. Runner up 2016. Football state champions 2026. Boys basketball right now is 14 and one with no funding. 2020 and multiple teams have made the playoffs this year and of individual championships in recent years. I would just like to end with that. I came here as a fierce advocate for student athletics. I'm looking forward to hearing later that maybe we can start talking about holding some other people accountable. When I hear the update on forensic audit from Mr. Angle and thank you for your time.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[R17134-82] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (the Chair's transition to follow-up ite | 2026-02-04
PREV> Matt Angell: No, not at this time. Except that I'm working with the island actively right now.
TEXT> All right. Moving on to our follow up items. I'll stop for a second. Did anybody have any more questions for Mr. Angel? Okay.  Follow up items, Mr. Kennedy? Sure. Good evening everyone.  So I know it was asked before about our preschool and the full time equivalents. And so we talk about FTEs. So those full time equivalent. So right now, as it sits for the drop in preschool service model, we have one coordinator who's one, you know, 1.0 full time equivalent. We have a speech language pathologist assistant who is a full time dedicated to the preschool. We have a certified occupational therapy assistant who's a 0.6  full time equivalent.  And that Coda works with students on the occupational therapy side. We have a physical therapist who's contracted for 2.5 hours a week, and then a teacher of visually impaired students. That's two hours a month. Wow. So that's what we have right now. So there's basically two full time equivalents of six  OT coda,  and then 2.5 hours a week a month for, I mean, excuse me, a week for physical therapy services and then two hours a month for the visually impaired services.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: All right. So it was also asked about the doubt configuration. And so I put together a chart. So for you to look at. So we are down full for

[R17134-110] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Capital Improvement Committee Chair; Finance Subc | 2026-02-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Probably you did. Don't know I didn't.
TEXT> Okay, so Stevens High School had requested 5.6 additional teachers. This request was withdrawn, freeing up an approximate $450,000 in salaries and benefits, a couple of support programs with limited enrollments that are not mandated  are will be reconfigured to free up another $150,000. Various other categories may have small reductions to cover the difference as needed. It is important to keep in mind that a budget is a plan that is put together with the best knowledge at the time. It is not a fixed, unyielding document. It is absolutely true that the bottom line approved is figure is a fixed number, but the various line items making up the budget are subject to change. The budget that was created that is created in January is voted on in March, and doesn't go into effect until July. It will be impacted by at least three  items one by the end of the year. Balance on June 30th. Number two  unknown expenses that come up during the year. Examples could be maintenance. Surprises, boilers, roofs, refrigerators or special education needs. Say a new student moves into the district and the third is staffing variances. Do all positions get filled? Are they resignations during the year? It's a very fluid situation. It's very important to keep in mind that the budget will be reviewed throughout the year to identify changes among line items to address current needs.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Savings in all areas will try to be achieved so that the district can save wherever possible, so the end of year balance will be a positive number. Savings can

[R17134-117] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2026-02-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: one line item to another line item. So us making a motion wouldn't, wouldn't make it any different than five years ago or ten years ago or one year ago. But it's definitely the value of the board that if it get funded. Mr. Howard.
TEXT> I was hoping that some of the support programs, if not tonight, would just be identified  and how they'll be grouped with other things so that if students are in them, even if they're low attendance, they won't be totally kicked out of a program that they might benefit from.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Some possibility. One of the possibilities the alternative school. What's it called? The academy, might be one that we would look at, because it's not mandated and it has limited

[R17134-127] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: to make sure we're using our funds efficiently, to educate the kids, to give the kids a great experience in the Claremont School District. So the target is not for myself is not athletics and cutting athletics. It's using our money efficiently, across the board.
TEXT> So if there are things that are funded that are not getting the participation,  or you're having to try to drag kids into the program or the then we need to have people in administration look and make the tough decision to say, all right, this program, this team, this sport, this, you know, we need to look at pulling back the funding on those. So it's not  a war on athletics. It's not a war on music and arts. It's not a war on special ed or regular ed. It's let's spend our money efficiently and stuff funding things that are not working.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I'd just like to follow up that, that's exactly why I made the comments about that. It's not a a budget isn't a firm cast in stone. I think the

[R17134-153] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: The 95% is the phonics program. That's the tier two, and it's called 95% I know. Okay. And then the third one is the tier three is 95% the rep, which is the reading achievement program.
TEXT> So the motion you're looking for is to adopt this 95 program 95% wrap for the tier three students. Yes.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And then the tier two is using the 95%. And then the the tier three is the new one that we're looking to add on to what we already have.

[R17134-179] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (handed the floor as 'Melissa' by | 2026-02-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Are primarily Melissa, if anybody else wants to add on to it because I know you have more specific details. Sorry to throw you there.
TEXT> Good evening. Disney did pilot this program last year. All three of our special educators, they have seen tremendous growth in the kiddos that have been using it. So it's less grade level driven and more skill need based. So typically in an elementary school, if you're struggling and reading or you have a reading disability, right, it's normally in that phonological system. And so this is a program that targets those gaps in the in a child's phonological system. In phonics, one of the nice components is that you can have. Yes, one to 1 to 3 is the ideal size group. But working with the coaches that, are mandatory for you, that let me stop for just a minute before one of our special educators can even use this program. They have to participate in over 20 hours of very specific professional development with the 95% company. And so the company will not release the software for them to use until they have completed that professional development. So that's pretty highly from a principles lens of quality. And then there are coaching opportunities that every teacher then participates in so that they once they've had the training, they try it out.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: They then meet virtually with a coach. They you know, here's what's working for me. Here's what's not getting some feedback. But we've been able to to size groups a

[R17134-180] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (handed the floor as 'Melissa' by | 2026-02-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: for them to use until they have completed that professional development. So that's pretty highly from a principles lens of quality. And then there are coaching opportunities that every teacher then participates in so that they once they've had the training, they try it out.
TEXT> They then meet virtually with a coach.  They you know, here's what's working for me. Here's what's not getting some feedback.  But we've been able to to size groups a little bit larger because you actually can have kids.  Ideally, again, anybody who's missing short A, we're going to put you in a group. This program allows us to expand that a little bit so that kids could be working on slightly different skills with the same special educator at the same time, because parts of the program are geared to it's all individualized. Kids have to place in the program,  and, and go from there. So it's not a program that would be used for comprehension. If a child has a comprehension deficit, we would not use this. It's really one. It's we need to build our toolkits  of tier three programs, and there are very few that are designed specifically for tier three. So if a kiddo has a reading gap, we don't want to give them. We use foundations, for example, a wonderful phonics program as our tier one instruction. Every kiddo gets foundations. If that's not working for me, and maybe I then work with a title one teacher, right? I don't want I don't necessarily need more of the same. Right.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Because that wasn't working for me. And so 95%, the phonics program is what our title one teachers use that is designed to be a tier two program, which is

[R17134-181] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (handed the floor as 'Melissa' by | 2026-02-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: foundations, for example, a wonderful phonics program as our tier one instruction. Every kiddo gets foundations. If that's not working for me, and maybe I then work with a title one teacher, right? I don't want I don't necessarily need more of the same. Right.
TEXT> Because that wasn't working for me. And so 95%, the phonics program is what our title one teachers use that is designed to be a tier two program, which is really what title one is, is meant to be.  And then this program is even more intense in its focus and is a tier three program. So my special educators have seen great success with this. I had last year the privilege of having a group that met at my office table every day so I could listen in to the lessons, I could listen into the instruction, teacher would work with the small hole small group, and then literally go around to every other student. They do use iPads for a portion of their lesson.  And then another nice component to this is there's decodable text that aligns to the specific skill that's being taught.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If I may. When you say coaching, you're talking about from the company, not.

[R17134-188] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: You know it's specifically for kiddos working in this program?
TEXT> Kids. So even at the other, the other curriculum that we have or other program that we have for the tier two. Yep. Are those integrated? The tier two and tier three.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: They are built upon each other, I would say. And the monitoring, the individual progress monitoring is so specific to that particular child. So if the path that this child

[R17134-189] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (handed the floor as 'Melissa' by | 2026-02-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Kids. So even at the other, the other curriculum that we have or other program that we have for the tier two. Yep. Are those integrated? The tier two and tier three.
TEXT> They are built upon each other, I would say. And the monitoring, the individual progress monitoring is so specific to that particular child. So if the path that this child has been identified in need of, that's where the progress monitoring occurs. And special educators have constant feedback about how students are doing with those skills in addition to what they're seeing with them every day. Yes, yes. So, cam said they graduate from one  to another. So I think you mean from the tier two to the tier three program. So I don't know.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Three to 10 to 2. To three. Down to two.

[R17134-207] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair (the Chair's subcommitt | 2026-02-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: So we're going to work on scheduling of meeting for March. Okay. I'll be reaching out.
TEXT> Finance subcommittee. We haven't had any meetings since, way back when. Nope. Anything else? No. Miss Hawkins, we bring before you the second read policy. JLCK, which is physical and emotional well-being of students. We brought this forward at the last meeting. It was, motion was made to bring it back for second read. Possible adoption. I've not gotten any input  or comments, so I'm bringing this weird committee's bringing it forward for a second read. Hopefully adoption. Does anyone want to make a motion for approval of second read and adoption?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So moved.

[R17134-211] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah. I think it's.
TEXT> Good seeing no discussion on favor of adopting policy. JLCK special physical health needs of students. Say I any opposed? Any abstentions?  A policy JLCK has been adopted. Thank you. And just as a additional comments, the policy subcommittee has been developing a timeline for upcoming policies. We've been referring  some policies to legal counsel, and we welcome the attendance of the administrators from the high school and from Disney, because we're dealing with students and instruction.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And Miss Kennedy has been there, and it has really added to our discussion. So I want to just say thank you for being there.

[R17134-230] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (addr | 2026-02-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the entrepreneurial program. So bring your wallet if you want to do something just for that too. So but we're excited to have the Texas Hunters port. Anything else there, Miss Harrington? No, I think that's okay. We're excited. So thank. You for. Oh, great.
TEXT> Picnic table. Some kids made the nice.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[R17159-3] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: be allotted three minutes. Citizens will be recognized for a second turn turn at the podium, after all other citizens have been addressed and have had a turn to speak. The second term will be limited to two minutes. Miss Crawford, would you please open?
TEXT> Okay. Article seven adopting open enrollment. The article reads to see if the school district will vote to designate all of its schools as open enrollment schools pursuant to RSA 194-D to allow nonresident students from outside the school district to attend schools in the school district in the amount not to exceed 10% of each school's enrollment, and to limit the percentage of students residing in the district who may attend open enrollment schools located outside the district to 0%.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there anyone who would like to come?

[R17159-7] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Oh, yes. I didn't know you had. I didn't know you had a speech.
TEXT> It's the same one I gave at the.  But I think it's helpful for to clarify.  Under New Hampshire law. RSA 94-D, sections three and four for annual meeting schools. Each school district must establish its own guidelines as an open enrollment school by a warrant article voted on by the school district. If the district does not vote on these guidelines, the school district would be responsible for 80% of the costs of students going to another district without any restrictions on how many students that could be eligible for. This ruling came from the New Hampshire Supreme Court last October. In addition to setting the cap on how many students can go outside of the district. It also must set the cap on how many students could transfer into a school district. This means that without the proposed warrant article, if a student chose to go to another school other than Claremont, the taxpayers would be responsible for 80% of that cost. This would reduce the amount of money available for our schools, and Claremont taxpayers would be paying to help fund education in a different town. For instance, if Claremont doesn't have a policy, this is roughly how the money would work if students wanted to transfer to another school. The average cost per student in New Hampshire right now is $21,545.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: 80% of that cost is $17,236. If just six students were to go from Claremont to another district, Claremont taxpayers would end up paying 100,000 or more to another town

[R17159-8] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: paying to help fund education in a different town. For instance, if Claremont doesn't have a policy, this is roughly how the money would work if students wanted to transfer to another school. The average cost per student in New Hampshire right now is $21,545.
TEXT> 80% of that cost is $17,236. If just six students were to go from Claremont to another district, Claremont taxpayers would end up paying 100,000 or more  to another town or towns. There is no way to plan ahead ahead of time for these costs. Additionally, if we did not have this article in place, we could have an unknown number of students coming to our schools whether or not we had the capacity for them. If we officially become an open enrollment school, students can still choose other schools, but the responsibility for paying for that cost remains with the parents as it is now.  Parental rights stay in place. We would also limit the number of students who can choose to come to Claremont, allowing us better control over managing our resources, our budget and our spending for special education students, decision making and funding responsibility stays with the sending district. The Claremont School Board recommends the adoption of this article that limits the number of students going outside of the district to zero, and the number of students coming into the district at 10%. Because we have enough capacity to accommodate that many students. Voting in favor of this article does not change the options available to parents that, as they have it now,  it simply acts as a defensive move to limit the financial responsibility and liability for which the district has no control and no way to plan ahead for this unforeseen expense.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And finally, the New Hampshire House and Senate have been debating a new law revisions to this law regarding open enrollment, but it is unclear where those two groups stand

[R17159-18] Hope Damon | State Representative (Croydon); House Education Funding Committee (sel | 2026-02-18
PREV> Hope Damon: definite timeline than we did, I think last time for folks who might want to look them up. It's House Bill 751 and Senate Bill 101. And if you look up the House bill, it initially looks like it has nothing to do with education.
TEXT> The relevant part for open enrollment is the amendment to the bill.  I introduced this morning in House Education Policy Committee a completely different bill. House Bill 1280, which is trying to create a commission to study open enrollment and try to get recommendations and answers to a whole list of uncertainties in those bills, like the definition of capacity for receiving districts is not clearly defined. Issues around finances. There's a whole long list I won't spend time going over now, but I'm happy to talk with folks about that. It is absolutely correct what the first speaker said, that if either of those bills pass, they override the local warrant articles. But we don't know what's going to happen with those bills. So if the warrant article here passes, as has happened already in several districts that vote early, and there's, I believe, about 31 articles on ballots in March. Those weren't articles. If passed, will be valid. If the enrollment bills at the House and Senate don't pass. I don't have crystal ball, so communities should do what it thinks is right to do. It is highly improbable that open enrollment won't cost Claremont School District money. It's 80% of the sending districts tuition to go to the receiving district. So 80% of the tuition costs for Claremont would go to whatever other district a student was attending. Can I wrap up that explanation?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Fortunately, no.

[R17159-25] Hope Damon | State Representative (Croydon); House Education Funding Committee (sel | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right. 10s 10s.
TEXT> Cost per pupil goes up the fewer pupils you have. So when students leave Claremont over time, that cost per pupil goes up in the 80% that you are paying out is greater. The cost per pupil will go down in the receiving districts because they have more students, they benefit.
NEXT> Matt Bean: All right Matt Beam, board one. These comments will not take three minutes. So regarding open enrollment, I would like to speak to why I support the restrictions put in

[R17159-28] Sherry Williams | Citizen commenter, Ward 1 (self-identification clipped into the Chair' | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> My name is Sherry Williams, Ward one.  Really, I want to just speak to the bottom line of the warrant article, both. At well, at all of the meetings that we've had talking about the warrant articles, the deliberative session, the meeting before that,  the House bills and the Senate bills have also been discussed. What is going to happen is Claremont citizens are going to come to the voting booth, many of whom have not been to any of these meetings, and they're going to read a question and have to cast a vote. What I want to see is a bottom line up front. And, Miss Crawford, I feel like you really offered that about needing to. And please correct me if I misstated, you know, needing to pass the warrant article to limit the amount of money that is sent for sending students.  I just really want to say the importance, while I understand the importance of what's happening at a state level, our Claremont citizens are voting on a warrant bill for Claremont specific. And so being incredibly clear to someone who has never been to one of these meetings on what they are voting yes. If you vote yes, it means you want this. The communication behind that and the clarity behind that is absolutely critical for our voters to make sure that we are not confusing the two issues. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes, yes.

[R17159-46] Gary Merchant | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; former state representative (self-identifie | 2026-02-18
PREV> Gary Merchant: the consequences are to the students. What I'm trying to get to is where is the public relations? I believe the school has someone in public relations. Why are we not using that resource to get the information out there to help inform the voters?
TEXT> So when you go into the voting booth, they make an intelligent choice of what they're trying to vote on. That's my concern. So I would say support it because even if the state law passes, if I understand the state law correctly, doesn't limit the number of students leaving a district. But you could help to, at that point in time, limit the number of students coming into the district. So there's two parts leaving and coming in. So coming in could be a problem as well. We don't sometimes have the capacity. So I would say at this point in time is encouraging the school board in the school district itself to get more information out there for the voters to help them understand what they're voting on. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We are working on it. It's not finished all of it yet. So there'll be a visual looks. And I know it's hard to see there. And it has exactly

[R17159-59] Wayne Hemingway | State Representative, Sullivan District 6; citizen commenter, Ward 1 ( | 2026-02-18
PREV> Wayne Hemingway: to work on that over the next couple of years because, I think we need it as far as the pros and cons, I handed out a sheet to each one of you, and I think there's there's some good pros and cons on there.
TEXT> I would like to see if we could upload that to the site. Another site that we can look at is reaching higher New Hampshire. Reaching Higher New hampshire.org. And they have  a bunch of good information on there for any educational stuff and other stuff. I sent you a link to that calculator. I don't know if you can load that up to the to the website. Okay. And that will give you a calculation of what each school district loses our gains. Bye bye students. What was said here is exactly right. Every student that leaves Claremont is a higher increase on our adequacy rate and a reduction for the other school until we can figure out, you know, how we can minimize that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Exactly two minutes. Mr. merchant would like to have minutes.

[R17159-61] Gary Merchant | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; former state representative (self-identifie | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Exactly two minutes. Mr. merchant would like to have minutes.
TEXT> Two minutes. Right. Thank you at all due respect, Gary Merchant, Ward two. Still there. One of the things I heard from the prior speaker was trying to elevate and educate people about the importance of our hearts and our sports here in Claremont. Phenomenal. What I want to do is talk about what it means to the community, because when we get to article eight, which is different, but if we devastate the sports and arts, our ability to bring students here in the Claremont goes away. So goes back to article seven, because we don't have a good support sports program, arts program. We're not going to attract anyone coming to Claremont. So I just want to be clear with people, if we're going to lose students, our ability to bring students back into our community to offset what we lost is going to go away. So just be cognitive of what's going on with article seven, because if we end up passing another budget that doesn't allow us to have a vibrant, healthy sports program, phenomenal arts program, phenomenal, it all goes away. Why would someone send their students here? That's all I want to say. Thank you, thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes. Three minutes.

[R17159-63] Tom Luther | Citizen commenter, Ward 1 (self-identification clipped into the preced | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes. Three minutes.
TEXT> Tom Luther,  Ward one I. Would like to emphasize that each student who leaves and takes their own choices, not necessarily a loss. It's the net. And I'll give you an instance of where this exactly where this happens. If Newport developed an excellent music program and Claremont had excellent sports programs in a cooperative environment, one would easily expect to see Newport students who are at the top of their game in one focus. Come here for that. Come, come here for their focus. While Claremont's aspiring music music students go to the other, go in the other direction, the intent and one of the outcomes of open enrollment is it allows small districts to specialize in one thing and be truly excellent in one thing, and draw people on that basis. And in small, small, rural communities, we cannot be perfect in everything. So this allows individual centers of excellence to occur around a community and for the parents and kids to migrate towards those things that they like. This is in a cooperative environment. If we don't have that, everybody has to do everything themselves, and we all do a profoundly mediocre job at everything. So this is one of the trade offs that so far I have not heard anyone mention.
NEXT> Tom Luther: Is that on net, if everyone moves around and it all zeros out, there's zero fiscal impact which to speak to the ability of budgeting. Yes, that makes it harder

[R17159-72] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: If I.
TEXT> You're right in in your understanding of we have limited the number of students that we could accept from other districts because we want to be able to control how many kids come in right now based on our enrollments. We believe that we have enough capacity to have 10% more students come in to take advantage without having to expense more for teachers and classrooms. Okay, we're saying 0% out of district because we want to limit our financial exposure, which we don't have any control over unless we pass this Warren article. And by this Warren article, it simply limits our financial exposure to kids going out of district. Parents can still send their children to other districts if they want. It's the financial responsibility that we're trying to limit for the school district. Everyone wants the Claremont Claremont School Board to manage our resources well. This is one way that we can do that.
NEXT> Noah Bosch: Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that was clarified, because I think we're doing a lot of back and forth on this right now. So, thank you for that.

[R17159-73] Noah Bosch | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2026-02-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: can still send their children to other districts if they want. It's the financial responsibility that we're trying to limit for the school district. Everyone wants the Claremont Claremont School Board to manage our resources well. This is one way that we can do that.
TEXT> Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that was clarified, because I think we're doing a lot of back and forth on this right now. So,  thank you for that. I also want to say that if universal open enrollment laws are passed in the state of New Hampshire, if we send students out of Claremont, we are not only losing the students, we are not only paying the tuition, we're also losing the state adequacy aid we receive for said student, which is  not a lot, but it's still an extra $4,800 we could kind of use. So,  yeah, I just wanted to make sure it was really, really clear what people were voting for with this specific warrant article, because I feel like we've been doing a lot of back and forth. So thank you for clarifying. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thanks. Yeah. So we have more, PR pieces that are coming out soon. We want to make sure with the vacation we coming up next week that it's not lost

[R17159-77] Rebecca | Citizen commenter, Ward 1; parent (self-identified as 'Rebecca Van...' | 2026-02-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: The transportation costs remain with the parents.
TEXT> And the responsibility of that, because as the example that Mr. Luther was giving,  I got a little sensitive about as a mother of the second clarinet player of the state,  I would say that Claremont has an excellent music program and an excellent sports program, and I would want them to be both. And it's not it can't work that way. I would not be able to to drive my children to other districts if I wanted to. And we can't afford it. Just it just doesn't work that way.  It's a nice idea, but we can't do that specialization types of things and you end up  I mean, that's one of the biggest problems of these is it becomes even more haves and have nots and flexibility. Some families have flexible schedules and can drive people all over the place. Others are very reliant on the public system, the public school transportation system. And those people tend to be folks that are higher incomes. And that's not the I. Love. The diversity in our schools of that. You have a little bit of everybody in as far as as income balance in our schools. Just. That's all. So thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just so I agree, and that's something that we're working on and from the school perspective is it does become inequitable and that we're trying to limit that so

[R17159-78] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Rebecca: to be folks that are higher incomes. And that's not the I. Love. The diversity in our schools of that. You have a little bit of everybody in as far as as income balance in our schools. Just. That's all. So thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just so I agree, and that's something that we're working on and from the school perspective is it does become inequitable and that we're trying to limit that so that it's not the haves and have nots. And we're trying to keep it obviously locally funded, but we're working hard every day. I know it's hard to see the fruits of our labors right now, to make sure that education is better than it has been. I appreciate that,  but sending students out does not help us improve what we're doing right now, too. So we just want to reiterate that. I recognize this woman over here first. Thank you.
NEXT> April Woodman: Hi. April. Woodman. I would like an assurance I know better than most how these RSA is read. I understand the special ed cost stays with the district. Understand there's

[R17159-82] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: exposure for tax purposes, that regardless of what the state does, regardless of the law, regardless of what our schools might become or not become, what other schools, this is just for us at this point in time, we have to limit our financial responsibility.
TEXT> Thank you, thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak to article seven? I'm going to close discussion for article seven.  Moving on to article eight. I will read the article as written, and then I just am going to share verbatim what Mr. O'Shaughnessy, our district attorney,  spoke about at the deliberative session in regards to this article. And just to share with you what his perspectives are.  Again, this is our district attorney's perspectives. There may be an argument that there is another way of looking at this, but I can only speak to what our representatives have explained to us. So article eight that is going to March 10th ballot is reads as the following. Shall we adopt the provision of RSA 32 colon 5-8 and implement a budget cap whereby the School Board or Budget Committee shall not submit a recommended budget that is higher than  the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost times the average daily membership in residents of the school district as of October 1st of the year immediately preceding the proposed budget year, plus an annual increase for inflation using CPI.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Dash you for the Boston Cambridge Newton, Massachusetts, New Hampshire area, published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics statistics as of January 1st requires a three fifth majority of

[R17159-83] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: recommended budget that is higher than the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost times the average daily membership in residents of the school district as of October 1st of the year immediately preceding the proposed budget year, plus an annual increase for inflation using CPI.
TEXT> Dash you for the Boston Cambridge Newton, Massachusetts, New Hampshire area, published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics statistics as of January 1st requires a three fifth majority of the school district  submitted by petition, and the school board does not recommend this article. And I would just simply like to read again what Mr. Shaughnessy spoke about  at the deliberative. I explained at the meeting that the language does not follow the law. The statute governing governing the establishment of a school budget cap is RSA  32 colon five F adoption of the school budget district cap and it provides the following mandatory warrant article language. The question shall be shall we adopt the provision of RSA 32 colon 5-E and implement a budget cap whereby the School Board or Budget Committee shall not submit a budget recommended. Submit a recommended budget that is higher than blank dollars per pupil cost time the average daily membership in residents of the school district. And similarly, as I read before the petition, Warren article did not follow the highlighted section above. Instead, it used the phrase higher than the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost. I explained this at the meeting, and even worked with the moderator to create forms that voters could use to amend it to comply with statute.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The attempted amendment failed. There are a few legal concerns with the petition language which I raised at the meeting. First, the governing law are essay 32 colon 5-F sets

[R17159-84] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: follow the highlighted section above. Instead, it used the phrase higher than the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost. I explained this at the meeting, and even worked with the moderator to create forms that voters could use to amend it to comply with statute.
TEXT> The attempted amendment failed. There are a few legal concerns with the petition language which I raised at the meeting. First, the governing law are essay 32 colon 5-F sets for the mandatory language, and that language requires that the budget cap be set as a dollar amount shown as blank dollars. Changing a dollar amount to a fiscal year reference is not permitted under the statute. Second, the language in the petition, because it does not follow the statute, also does not contain an actual figure that exists at the time of the meeting, or even a figure that is statutorily defined. While it is true that we are generally familiar with the term cost per pupil, and the New Hampshire Education Department calculates the cost per pupil for districts across the state, there is no single definition of cost per pupil in state law. For instance, RSA 189 colon 75 defines cost per pupil, but that definition consists of three possible figures. As a result, on election day, rather than asking voters to adopt a dollar cost per pupil, the voters will not know what number they are voting on because it is not clearly defined in the law and does not exist at the time of the vote.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The calculation of the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost per Mr. Angel's estimate was going to cost us. We were going to cut the budget. Roughly 9 million is

[R17159-85] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: result, on election day, rather than asking voters to adopt a dollar cost per pupil, the voters will not know what number they are voting on because it is not clearly defined in the law and does not exist at the time of the vote.
TEXT> The calculation of the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost  per Mr. Angel's estimate was going to cost us. We were going to cut the budget. Roughly 9 million  is a guess or an estimate right now. Therefore, voters do not know what they are voting on as a cost per pupil dollar amount because it does not exist at the time of the deliberative and will not exist on voting day, March 10th. In fact, that number will not exist until the summer at that point. At some point, the current wording on the petitioned article does not contain an amount that is known at the time of the vote, and therefore the voters do not know what they are voting for or against. If the petition article passes in its current form, I will likely advise the board that it is unenforceable due to flaws explained above. Then he then he hesitates to give any further kind of guidance because he really doesn't. You know, he's not going to investigate any further unless the petition or an article passes. So that's all the additional information that I have from a board perspective, other than what was explained at the Deliberative by Mr. Angel, what the estimated tax consequences and  implications to the district, I don't know if you would be kind enough to just touch on the on the top ten items.
NEXT> Matt Angell: I used a bunch of versus actual report that I provided the school, the school board back in January, and I calculated an operating budget of just under $36 million,

[R17159-86] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: have from a board perspective, other than what was explained at the Deliberative by Mr. Angel, what the estimated tax consequences and implications to the district, I don't know if you would be kind enough to just touch on the on the top ten items.
TEXT> I used  a bunch of versus actual  report that I provided the school, the school board back in January, and I calculated an operating budget  of just under $36 million, which represents a $9.1 million decrease,  as compared to what's being proposed at that time. So when when creating a budget for next year, what I'd have to do is make recommendations to the school board and everything is on the table. And I provided this list before,  easy areas of elimination would be cutting all programs at the vote, tech,  closing the Dow building and moving those operations elsewhere. We would also recommend eliminating athletics completely, eliminating extracurricular activities completely. Also consider closing Maple Ave and Disney Art Elementary School, converting this building to a K one or a K-2 school. And then also provide transportation for what is required minimally under the law. So minimally means that for regular education, we'd be transporting kids for  K through eighth grade. And that just just to be clear to that doesn't mean that the school board or the community is going to approve what I recommend. But these are just easy areas that I could bring up to the school board just to get down underneath the tax cut.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And they show the depth of the impact. Based on your. Suggestion, legally, we're still obligated to provide the special education services. And and you know, SL sorry, we still

[R17159-90] Mark Chamberlain | Citizen commenter, Ward 1; retired banking professional and Stevens al | 2026-02-18
PREV> Mark Chamberlain: We're not talking a few bake sales, right? We need hundreds of thousands of dollars, support all these fantastic sports programs. And Mr. Hemingway and others are talking about, and there's no way to do that through, you know, weekly bake sales and car washes.
TEXT> There's just no way to do that. Also, parents, parents have been driving their students  who are in  sports teams to away games. That's not sustainable either. I mean, how the heck  parents work, parents have things to do. They can't be driving the Concord and McKean and other cities  with their kids after school to go to games,  students, the students, I mean, they're they're in school for what to learn, but also to grow culturally, physically, emotionally. And a lot of this stuff happens through the various activities they get involved in the sports, the athletics, the drama club, the yearbook club, the honor society, you name it. So to take that stuff away and forcing the community to try to raise the money to support those events, those activities every year does not make a lot of sense. And also, let's do a little bit of math. I understand that there are about 1500 students in the school system now. Not every student has two parents, and also some parents would have more than one kid in the system. And not every student has four grandparents. A lot of people do, but not everyone does. So let's do some math there.
NEXT> Mark Chamberlain: If you have 1500 students, let's say there are maybe not six adults in the community for every single student, but probably for right. If you add up all the

[R17159-91] Mark Chamberlain | Citizen commenter, Ward 1; retired banking professional and Stevens al | 2026-02-18
PREV> Mark Chamberlain: the school system now. Not every student has two parents, and also some parents would have more than one kid in the system. And not every student has four grandparents. A lot of people do, but not everyone does. So let's do some math there.
TEXT> If you have 1500 students, let's say there are maybe not six adults in the community for every single student, but probably for right. If you add up all the grandparents and the parents who live here in town. So whatever you're talking, 1500 students plus 6000 adults, so you have 7500 people, roughly, in this community who have a direct and immediate interest in the excellence of our school. Right? They have somebody in their family in the school. So my hope is that these people across town see that and realize this is not something that we should be voting for. I also feel like this coming school year, 2627  is going to be, you know, an interesting, interesting year for the school because district, because it's going to be the first year with the new, you know, fewer number of schools,  I think they're going to write or they're going to or change. Okay. Anyway, my point is that last point is that there's a lot of changes happening in the 26, 27 school year anyway. And so if we're going to do fiscal responsibility going forward, let's do it after we see how 2627 goes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. I think there was someone in the back that hasn't spoken yet.

[R17159-95] Kiran Adrian | Citizen commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School senior and two-year All | 2026-02-18
PREV> Loren Howard: Thank you.
TEXT> With this year having the second highest score in the state yet, here we are today discussing an estimated $9 million decrease to the school's budget cap,  possibly cutting the programs that make all of the graduates who have graduated from that high school who they are today. Several institutions such as Harvard, Brown, Yale, and so many others have done studies related to extracurricular activities, impact on grades. And every single time, every time it leads to increased test scores, GPA, and graduation rates. Most of, if not all, of the top students in the senior class at Stevens High School are in these extracurricular activities, with most of them being in more than one at the same time, extracurriculars teach skills that classrooms simply can't anymore. They teach teamwork, critical thinking, discipline,  all skills needed to succeed. Without these skills, students simply won't succeed at the level that they need to. But I do have one question. If we were to cut these extracurriculars, where do the students go? Because some of these extracurriculars have classes during the day. If you look at any of the classrooms currently, there's currently now like 20 to 25 kids in a single classroom.
NEXT> Kiran Adrian: There's simply just not functional classrooms already packed. Disruptions are a major issues, and teachers can't teach the content that they want to in the short time period because of

[R17159-96] Kiran Adrian | Citizen commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School senior and two-year All | 2026-02-18
PREV> Kiran Adrian: one question. If we were to cut these extracurriculars, where do the students go? Because some of these extracurriculars have classes during the day. If you look at any of the classrooms currently, there's currently now like 20 to 25 kids in a single classroom.
TEXT> There's simply just not functional classrooms already packed. Disruptions are a major issues, and teachers can't teach the content that they want to in the short time period because of that.  And already let me just remind you of this in 2025, only 2,230% of students  are currently proficient in math, reading and writing a current according to test scores. So it's obvious that it's not already working already. And this is as of 2025, not even this year. So let me be clear. To lower this budget is to give up the students here and their futures. And I guarantee you that if the budget cap is lowered by the 9 million that is estimated currently, you are honestly better off not running this district instead of running it on a skeleton of a school district. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you. Yes, this lady right here, she hasn't spoken yet. Thank you.

[R17159-106] Ken Lownie | Citizen commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; ASR 'Ken Louny') | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. gentleman here. Thank you.
TEXT> Three minutes. Is that right? Yes. I don't know who to have my back to. Ken Louny, Ward two. I have three points or three minutes for Mr. Angel. A question. Not for now, but if it could be published in some way.  A decrease of $9 million. Harry started to explain that we have to go after a lot of the things you mentioned, because so much is mandated spending, and I'd like to know what percentage of our budget is mandated spending, because that kind of answers the question that that's why others will say, well, you don't have to cut sports. You could cut X, but we know we can't cut special education. We can't cut a whole lot of things that are federally mandated. So that's a really important piece of information. That was 1.2. Is the question around or the the fact that the wording  in article eight doesn't reference a dollar amount and instead references a per student amount in a in a school year. And you could ask, why is that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Microphone down?

[R17159-120] Sherry Williams | Citizen commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified at segs 241 and 358) | 2026-02-18
PREV> Sherry Williams: to put out another option, and all of a sudden the meeting is over. In my opinion, because of a poorly moderated deliberative session, our choice to offer another amendment was stopped. I appreciated Mr. O'Shaughnessy because he gave us all the information we needed.
TEXT> And again, I believe from where I was sitting that people were planning to come with another amendment, another dollar figure, because 50,000 per student did not pass and we were not given the opportunity for that to happen because we voted to, in essence, to end the meeting, to put this warrant article on the ballot and did not realize that that's what we were voting for. And that was the end of the meeting. I left the meeting shocked,  and I am not alone. Please know who we are voting for, for what seems to be unimportant things on our ballot. They all matter. And so that is for the community. The rest of it was really for your feedback. And thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Noah Bosch: Are you guys sick of me yet? I'm still Nora Shane and I still live in Ward three and I'm a senior at Stevens, so I'm going to try to

[R17159-121] Noah Bosch | Citizen commenter, Ward 3; Stevens High School senior (self-identified | 2026-02-18
PREV> Sherry Williams: I am not alone. Please know who we are voting for, for what seems to be unimportant things on our ballot. They all matter. And so that is for the community. The rest of it was really for your feedback. And thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Are you guys sick of me yet? I'm still Nora Shane and I still live in Ward three and I'm a senior at Stevens, so I'm going to try to make this short because quite frankly, I'm really tired of having a price tag put on my education and my siblings education, and I'm really tired of having to fight. So I've compiled a list of things the state of New Hampshire require school districts to offer  but refuses to pay for. These things are called unfunded mandates.  And,  New Hampshire's public school system seems to be run almost entirely off of these unfunded mandates. So, first of all, some background information, on average, in New Hampshire, school districts spend about $20,000 per student. This number is slightly higher for Claremont. But just to keep it simple, we're using round numbers.  So, the state only provides about 4800 of that. Again, I think this is slightly higher for Claremont, but we're just keeping it simple here. As I'm sure you all know, Claremont taxpayers are responsible for covering the rest of this cost.
NEXT> Noah Bosch: So this information was compiled from Reaching higher New Hampshire and verified across a couple of other sources. So one, school nurses, they are required in every school in New

[R17159-126] Hope Damon | State Representative (Croydon); House Education Funding Committee (sel | 2026-02-18
PREV> Hope Damon: we of people who probably cancel each other out at the polls on a lot of things, but valued our public school system. We restored our budget by a vote of 377 to 2. It can be done. We spent seven weeks on a campaign.
TEXT> Many of you probably saw that we stand up for Croydon students signs. We printed postcards we  do not like you do when you're running for office. You don't want to meet anybody, don't want to miss anybody. We phone bank. We did every form of communication we could think of to make sure that there were no people in Claremont who didn't know what the consequences were if we didn't have enough people show up to vote, and we really didn't know even the night before going through voter lists if we were going to succeed or not, because we both had to get enough people present by the state law to be able to vote again on a budget issue, and we had to get enough votes in the right direction. It's about community.  It's about every single person who doesn't want this budget cap to talk to everybody that they can persuade and talk respectfully  and inform and expect that we're not all going to be on the same page, but you just need to get enough people, and every person needs to know by one of these forms of communication, you guys can do this.
NEXT> Loren Howard: What was. The vote? Oh.

[R17159-133] Gary Merchant | Citizen commenter, Ward 2; former state representative (self-identifie | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: So Mr. Merchant.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair Gary Merchant Ward two. And for those in the audience as well. Nice to see you here. I'm a proud graduate of Stevens High School. 1971 Gulf Cardinals. I enjoyed my time at the high school. It gave me the foundation upon which I have lived my life, both in the values that spouse to me, the teachers, the education as well. I have children who graduated from Stevens High School. I hope you have grandchildren. The graduate from high school. I stand before you as I'm looking at some of the information that's out there talking about a 20% reduction in our tax bill. So I went back and look at my tax bill. 50% of my tax bill is. The school. 50% is not. If I do the math correctly, my math teacher taught me correctly to get to a 20% reduction. That means we have to cut the school budget by 40%, which is devastating at that level. We're talking about no tax center, no sports, no extracurricular activity, probably no transportation from high school students. It would be catastrophic to not just the school, but this community.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: We've been talking about turning this community around for a long time. Valley regional is putting a tremendous amount of money developing health care. Health care and education are the

[R17159-141] John Cloutier | State Representative; citizen commenter, Ward 1; Claremont native and  | 2026-02-18
PREV> John Cloutier: they're supposed to spend 40%. And then when they passed 50 years ago, the same year I graduated from Steven, 75, and they've never done it, they got close to 20% thanks to our former congressman Charles Bass, who did it for a few years.
TEXT> But it slipped back to 10%. And I don't know about you, I've talked with many members of our congressional delegation. I've talked with some of the presidential candidates about this, express my concerns, and I learned a lot about special ed, but I haven't seen any action, no matter which parties in charge. And with all due respect,  No Child Left programs. They may have meant one. They may have done some good things, but they still didn't address. I would prefer, frankly, the federal government just do special ed funding if they could even fund it to 80% like they do our what of our road projects. That would be help and that would ease some of the burden. That's still, though, the responsibility of the state. We have a major response and I'll do my part, but the I just have real concerns about this article, the way it's written because of programs that we cannot control. If a bunch of families with special needs come into Claremont, they you need to to help them, and then that's going to hurt everybody, all the other normal students.
NEXT> John Cloutier: And so I just don't think this is the way to go. What we've got to do, I think, is just demand that the state do more and comply with

[R17159-240] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there anything else for Mr. Angel? Okay, moving on to our follow up items. And if you want to just gloss over the RFP. Sure. Right. Because we'll get into that a minute. So just before.
TEXT> You the preschool, when we're going to get into more detail of a future date too, because unfortunately, financially we weren't able to get all of the details for the per student cost. But just a quick update for this part of it. So we have the calendar ahead of you. We are working with all the unions just to check in on things. And so the first the blue one underneath, this is the one from Newport. And so you have that because we share students for the tech center. And so that was our guiding part. So we appreciate Superintendent Ramsay and everybody else at Newport getting theirs out first. So ours is the next iteration. And I will say this is not a it's a draft. Right now we're looking at trying to make sure we've heard a lot of feedback, trying to see if there's any way of eliminating some of the early release days instead of making full time PD. I mean, full time professional development days. We know it as a burden for a family, so we're trying to see if we can make that work.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And working within the CBA's for all the unions and things, but trying to make it sure we have enough hours for the students we have to comply with, obviously,

[R17159-337] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Next item on the agenda is the superintendent report.
TEXT> Okay. Be going. Through quickly. But I do want to recognize the February is CTE Career and Technical Education Month. So we recognize all of our staff and students at sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center. They are working on skilled technical learning to prepare students for industry careers and pathways. So we celebrate you. We thank you and we appreciate your dedication to our needed area of teaching and learning. So thank you. Miss Harrington happens to be here. I don't think she even knew I was going to mention that. So there you go. And also this week just a quick shout out. So we have celebration last week and I missed it. Putting it out there for publicly for the bus Driver Appreciation week.  And this week we had SRO School Resource Officer Appreciation Day to. So Officer Simon Simons and Sully the dog were appreciated to for all their work that they do for us in our school. So just a quick thank you for them. So the one thing I wanted to just bring to your attention tonight is we are looking for a motion, to look at it, we put together is an RFP for request for proposal for summary for executive leadership training.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So what is that? So looking at coaching for principals a cohesive team that comes together can also do some board work. And really making sure that everybody administratively is

[R17159-364] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-02-18
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Thank you very much.
TEXT> And pretty much I did have included, you know, the attendance. I mean, excuse me. Well the attrition a number of students that we have in the school. So that information was there. And just make sure the variance just so people know, there was a question about this through the school year, we've been plus or -15 students all year. So there has not been a very large variance. So there's up some months. It's up three students some donuts down three students. So the largest discrepancy in variance has been 15 students from August through now that we've lost or gained and things so.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So not not 100 or no. Okay. Okay. Thank you for sharing.

[R17159-515] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Unidentified board member: She's.
TEXT> And the last policy coming before you tonight is policy JIH student searches and I have to say thank you to Doctor Harrington and Miss Lewis their input on this. We've spent quite a bit of time going through this and, wordsmithing it.  And so we feel that the policy that was the last revised in 2009 needs to be updated. The reason I asked to have JIHR, which are the procedures, the specific procedures taken off the agenda is because they are still working on those procedures, and we wanted to have the policy in place and the procedures would be developed, and they will come to the board once they've developed and then be part of the posting at the website.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard.

[R17159-550] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Second. Any discussion? Seeing none. All in favor of moving policy JIH to second read at the next meeting. Say aye. I don't oppose no abstentions. Policy is going to be moved to second read next meeting. Okay. Any other business on the docket?
TEXT> I just. Would like to thank the tech center students over the lovely gifts that they. Gave the food. And the. Food for when we go into public nonpublic.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Candy's going to sell.

[R17168-0] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order, reads Article 8 and re | 2026-02-18
PREV> 
TEXT> Good evening. I'd like to call to order the February 18th, 2026 Claremont School Board Public Hearing and School Board meeting. All in attendance. Please rise. Moving on to article eight.  I will read the article as written. And then I just am going to share, essentially verbatim, what  Mr. O'Shaughnessy, our  district's attorney,  spoke about at the deliberative session in regards to this article. And just to share with you what his perspectives are. Again, this is our district attorney's perspectives. There may be an argument that there is another way of looking at this, but I can only speak to what  our representatives have explained to us. So article eight  that is going to March 10th ballot is reads is the following. Shall we adopt the provision of RSA 32 colon 5-8 and implement a budget cap whereby the School Board or Budget Committee shall not submit a recommended budget that is higher than  the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost times the average daily membership in residents of the school district as of October 1st of the year immediately preceding the proposed
NEXT> Heather Whitney: budget year, plus an annual increase for inflation using CPI. Dash you for the Boston Cambridge Newton, Massachusetts, New Hampshire area, published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as

[R17168-1] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order, reads Article 8 and re | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: the School Board or Budget Committee shall not submit a recommended budget that is higher than the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost times the average daily membership in residents of the school district as of October 1st of the year immediately preceding the proposed
TEXT> budget year, plus an annual increase for inflation using CPI. Dash you for the Boston Cambridge Newton, Massachusetts, New Hampshire area, published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as of January 1st, requires a three fifth majority of the school district  submitted by petition, and the school board does not recommend this article. And I would just simply like to read  again what Mr. Shaughnessy spoke about  at the deliberative. I explained at the meeting that the language does not follow the law. The statute governing governing the establishment of a school budget cap is RSA  32 colon five F adoption of the school budget district cap and it provides the following mandatory warrant article language. The question shall be shall we adopt the provision of RSA 32 colon 5-E and implement a budget cap whereby the School Board or Budget Committee shall not submit a budget recommended. Submit a recommended budget that is higher than blank dollars per pupil cost time the average daily membership in residents of the school district. And similarly, as I read  before the petition warrant article, did not follow the highlighted section above. Instead, it used the phrase higher than the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost. I explained this at the meeting, and even worked with the moderator to create forms that voters could use to amend it to comply with statute.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The attempted amendment failed. There are a few legal concerns with the petition language which I raised at the meeting. First, the governing law RSA 3215-F sets for the mandatory

[R17168-2] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order, reads Article 8 and re | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: follow the highlighted section above. Instead, it used the phrase higher than the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost. I explained this at the meeting, and even worked with the moderator to create forms that voters could use to amend it to comply with statute.
TEXT> The attempted amendment failed. There are a few legal concerns with the petition language which I raised at the meeting. First, the governing law RSA 3215-F sets for the mandatory language, and that language requires that the budget cap be set as a dollar amount shown as blank dollars. Changing a dollar amount to a fiscal year reference is not permitted under the statute. Second, the language in the petition, because it does not follow the statute, also does not contain an actual figure that exists at the time of the meeting, or even a figure that is statutorily defined. While it is true that we are generally familiar with the term cost per pupil, and the New Hampshire Education Department calculates the cost per pupil for districts across the state, there is no single definition of cost per pupil in state law. For instance, RSA 189 colon 75 defines the cost per pupil, but that definition consists of three possible figures. As a result, on Election day, rather than asking voters to adopt a dollar cost per pupil, the voters will not know what number they are voting on because it is not clearly defined in the law and does not exist at the time of the vote.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The calculation of the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost per Mr. Angel's estimate was going to cost us. We're going to have to cut the budget roughly 9 million,

[R17168-3] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order, reads Article 8 and re | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: result, on Election day, rather than asking voters to adopt a dollar cost per pupil, the voters will not know what number they are voting on because it is not clearly defined in the law and does not exist at the time of the vote.
TEXT> The calculation of the 2526 fiscal year per pupil cost  per Mr. Angel's  estimate was going to cost us. We're going to have to cut the budget roughly 9 million,  is a guess or an estimate right now. Therefore, voters do not know what they are voting on as a cost per pupil dollar amount because it does not exist at the time of the deliberative and will not exist on voting day, March 10th. In fact, that number will not exist until the summer at that point. At some point, the current wording on the petitioned article does not contain an amount that is known at the time of the vote, and therefore the voters do not know what they are voting for or against. If the petition article passes in its current form, I will likely advise the board that it is unenforceable due to flaws explained above. Then he then he hesitates to give any further kind of guidance because he really doesn't. You know, he's not going to investigate any further unless the petition or an article passes. So that's all the additional information that I have from a board perspective, other than what was explained at the Deliberative by Mr. Angel, what the estimated  tax consequences and implications to the district, I don't know if you would be kind enough to just touch on the on the top ten items.
NEXT> Matt Angell: I used a budget versus actual report that I provided the school, the school board back in January, and I calculated an operating budget of just under $36 million, which

[R17168-4] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (the chair hands off to 'Mr. Ang | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: have from a board perspective, other than what was explained at the Deliberative by Mr. Angel, what the estimated tax consequences and implications to the district, I don't know if you would be kind enough to just touch on the on the top ten items.
TEXT> I used a  budget versus actual  report that I provided the school, the school board back in January, and I calculated an operating budget of just under $36 million, which represents a $9.1 million decrease,  as compared to what's being proposed  at that time.  So when when creating a budget for next year,  what I'd have to do is make recommendations to the school board and everything is on the table. And I provided this list before,  easy areas of elimination would be cutting all programs at the vo tech,  closing the Dow building and moving those operations elsewhere. We would  also recommend eliminating athletics completely, eliminating extracurricular activities completely. Also consider closing Maple Ave and Disney Art Elementary School, converting this building to a K1 or K2 school.  And then also provide transportation for what is required minimally under the law. So minimally means that for regular education, we'd be transporting kids for  K through eighth grade. And that just just to be clear to that doesn't mean that the school board or the community is going to approve what I recommend. But these are just easy areas that I could bring up to the school board just to get down underneath the tax cut.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And they. Show the depth of the impact based on.

[R17168-9] Mark Chamberlain | Public commenter, Ward 1 — retired banker, Stevens alumni association  | 2026-02-18
PREV> Mark Chamberlain: dollars. We're not talking a few bake sales, right? We need hundreds of thousands of dollars to support all these fantastic sports programs that Mr. Hemingway and others are talking about. And there's no way to do that through weekly bake sales and car washes.
TEXT> It's just no way to do that. Also, parents parents have been driving their students who are in  sports teams to away games. That's not sustainable either. I mean, how the heck parents work, parents have things to do. They can't be driving the Concord and McKean and other cities  with their kids after school to go to games.  Students, the students, I mean, they're they're in school for what to learn, but also to grow culturally, physically,  emotionally. And a lot of this stuff happens through the various activities they get involved in the sports, the athletics, the drama club, the yearbook club, the you name it. So to take that stuff away and forcing the community, trying to raise the money to support those events, those activities every year does not make a lot of sense.  And also, let's do a little bit of math. I understand that there are about 1500 students in the school system now. Not every student has two parents, and also some parents would have more than one kid in the system. And not every student has four grandparents. A lot of people do, but not everyone does. So let's do some math there. We have 1500 students. Let's say there are maybe not six adults in the community for every single student, but probably four, right?
NEXT> Mark Chamberlain: If you add up all the grandparents and the parents who live here in town. So whatever you're talking, 1500 students plus 6000 adults, so you have 7500 people, roughly,

[R17168-10] Mark Chamberlain | Public commenter, Ward 1 — retired banker, Stevens alumni association  | 2026-02-18
PREV> Mark Chamberlain: And not every student has four grandparents. A lot of people do, but not everyone does. So let's do some math there. We have 1500 students. Let's say there are maybe not six adults in the community for every single student, but probably four, right?
TEXT> If you add up all the grandparents and the parents who live here in town. So whatever you're talking, 1500 students plus 6000 adults, so you have 7500 people, roughly, in this community who have a direct and immediate interest in the excellence of our schools. They have somebody in their family in the school. So my hope is that these people across town see that and realize this is not something that we should be voting for. I also feel like this coming school year, 2627 is going to be, you know, an interesting year for the school because district because it's going to be the first year with the new you, no fewer number of schools, I think they're going to write or they're going to or change. Okay. Anyway, my point is that last point is that there's a lot of changes happening in the 26, 27 school year anyway. And so if we're going to do fiscal responsibility going forward, let's do it. After we see how 2627 goes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R17168-16] Kiran Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1 — Stevens High School senior, music program ( | 2026-02-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> With this year having the second highest score in the state yet, here we are today discussing an estimated $9 million decrease to the school's budget cap, possibly cutting the programs that make all of the graduates who have graduated from that high school who they are today. Several institutions such as Harvard, Brown, Yale, and so many others have done studies related to extracurricular activities, impact on grades. And every single time, every time it leads to increased test scores, GPA, and graduation rates. Most of, if not all, of the top students in the senior class at Stevens High School are in these extracurricular activities, with most of them being in more than one at the same time, extracurriculars teach skills that classrooms simply can't anymore. They teach teamwork, critical thinking, discipline, all skills needed to succeed. Without these skills, students simply won't succeed at the level that they need to. But I do have one question. If we were to cut these extracurriculars, where do the students go? Because some of these extracurriculars have classes during the day. If you look at any of the classrooms currently, there's currently now like 20 to 25 kids in a single classroom.
NEXT> Kiran Adrian: There's simply just not functional classrooms already packed. Disruptions are a major issues, and teachers can't teach the content that they want to in the short time period because of

[R17168-17] Kiran Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1 — Stevens High School senior, music program ( | 2026-02-18
PREV> Kiran Adrian: one question. If we were to cut these extracurriculars, where do the students go? Because some of these extracurriculars have classes during the day. If you look at any of the classrooms currently, there's currently now like 20 to 25 kids in a single classroom.
TEXT> There's simply just not functional classrooms already packed. Disruptions are a major issues, and teachers can't teach the content that they want to in the short time period because of that. And already let me just remind you of this in 2025, only 2,230% of students are  currently proficient in math. Reading and writing occurred according to test scores, so it's obvious that it's not already working already. And this is as of 2025, not even this year. So let me be clear. To lower this budget is to give up the students here and their futures. And I guarantee you that if the budget cap is lowered by the 9 million that is estimated currently, you are honestly better off not running this district instead of running it on a skeleton of a school district. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[R17168-30] Ken Lownie | Public commenter, Ward 2 — asks the chair to confirm the three-minute  | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: This gentleman here. Thank you.
TEXT> Three minutes. Is that right? Yes. I don't know who to have my back to. Ken Louny, Ward two. I have three points. So three minutes for Mr. Angel, a question. Not for now, but if it could be published in some way.  A decrease of $9 million. Harry started to explain that we have to go after a lot of the things you mentioned, because so much is mandated spending, and I'd like to know what percentage of our budget is mandated spending. Because that kind of answers the question that that's why others will say, well, you don't have to cut sports, you could cut X, but we know we can't cut special education. We can't cut a whole lot of things that are federally mandated. So that's a really important piece of information. That was 1.2. Is the question around or the the fact that the wording in article eight doesn't reference a dollar amount and instead references or per student amount in a, in a school year. And you could ask, why is that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Phone down?

[R17168-44] Sherry Williams | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified at the podium; district minu | 2026-02-18
PREV> Sherry Williams: to put out another option, and all of a sudden the meeting is over. In my opinion, because of a poorly moderated deliberative session, our choice to offer another amendment was stopped. I appreciated Mr. O'Shaughnessy because he gave us all the information we needed.
TEXT> And again,  I believe from where I was sitting that people were planning to come with another amendment, another dollar figure, because $50,000 per student did not pass, and we were not given the opportunity for that to happen because we voted to, in essence, to end the meeting, to put this warrant article on the ballot and did not realize that that's what we were voting for. And that was the end of the meeting. I left the meeting shocked, and I am not alone. Please know who we are voting for, for what seems to be  an important things on our ballot. They all matter.  And so that is for the community. The rest of it was really for your feedback.  And thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R17168-49] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Croydon — House Education Funding Committee ( | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Damon.
TEXT> Okay, so I am going to turn slightly this. Way. Because this message is for  all the voters in Claremont. Most of you know, I'm from Croydon. And the impetus for me running for state rep and doing so much work in education was the 53% cut to the Croydon school budget in 2022. We are a very small town over there, and sometimes when people think things are just going to happen, other folks will take care and maintain status quo. Folks don't show up. We had that budget cut happen by a vote of 20 to 14. And seven weeks later, after we did what I'm going to suggest to you all. And we was a very collective we of people who probably cancel each other out at the polls on a lot of things, but valued our public school system. We restored our budget by a vote of 377 to 2. It can be done. We spent seven weeks on a campaign. Many of you probably saw that we stand up for Croydon students signs. We printed postcards we do not like you do when you're running for office and you don't want to meet anybody. I don't don't want to miss anybody.
NEXT> Hope Damon: We phone bank. We did everything form of communication we could think of to make sure that there were no people in Claremont who didn't know what the consequences were

[R17168-57] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2 — NH State Representative and Stevens High Sc | 2026-02-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: So Mr. Merchant.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair Gary Merchant Ward two. And for those in the audience as well. Nice to see you here. I'm a proud graduate of Stevens High School, 1971 Gulf Cardinals. I enjoyed my time at the high school. It gave me the foundation upon which I have lived my life, both under the values that spouse, me, the teachers, the education as well. I have children who graduated from Stevens High School. I hope you have grandchildren to graduate from high school. Why I stand before you as I'm looking at some of the information that's out there talking about a 20% reduction in our tax bill. So I went back and look at my tax bill. 50% of my tax bill is. The school. 50% is not. If I do the math correctly, my math teacher taught me correctly to get to a 20% reduction. That means we have to cut the school budget by 40%, which is devastating at that level. We're talking about no tax center, no sports, no extracurricular activity, probably no transportation for high school students. It would be catastrophic to not just the school, but this community.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: We've been talking about turning this community around for a long time. Valley regional is putting in a tremendous amount of money developing health care. Health care and education are

[R17168-65] John Cloutier | Public commenter, Ward 1 — NH State Representative for Claremont, Stev | 2026-02-18
PREV> John Cloutier: know the state you are. A lot of taxpayers are frustrated about the whole school budget, but is the responsibility of not only the state government, but in the case of special ed, the federal government, they mandate that we're they're supposed to spend 40%.
TEXT> And then when they passed 50 years ago, the same year I graduated from Steve in 75, and they've never done it, they got close to 20%, thanks to our former congressman Charles Bass, who did it for a few years, but slipped that to 10%. And I don't know about you, I've talked with many members of our congressional delegation. I've talked with some of the presidential candidates about this and expressed my concerns. And I learned a lot about special ed, but I haven't seen any action, no matter which parties in charge. And with all due respect, No Child Left programs. They may have meant one. They may have done some good things, but they still didn't address. I would prefer, frankly, the federal government just do special ed funding if they could even fund it to 80% like they do out of our road projects, that would be help and that would ease some of the burden. That's still, though, the responsibility of the state. We have a major response, and I'll do my part, but the I just have real concerns about this article, the way it's written because of programs that we cannot control. If a bunch of families with special needs come into Claremont, they you need to to help them, and then that's going to hurt everybody, all the other normal students.
NEXT> John Cloutier: And so I just don't think this is the way to go. What we've got to do, I think, is just demand the state do more and comply with the

[R17201-11] Wayne Hemingway | Public commenter; parent of a middle school student, Claremont residen | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: if you would like to. Thank you very much. Okay. Our first order. Okay. We already did that. Now we'll open the floor to non-agenda item citizens comments for policy BEDH. Is there anyone present wishing to speak this evening on a non agenda item?
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. Committee members. I just have  a quick observation and question. Oh. You're okay. Sorry. Wayne Hemingway. Would you rate? I'm a parent of a student in the middle school. A resident of Claremont. Also state rep. City councilor.  I'm just wondering. There's a I see there's a rally for our schools that's going to happen this Friday. 12 to 2. I don't know who's putting this together. That's it. Says the poster is solely sponsored by the Stevens High School students. So I don't know who's putting that together, but. Okay. Just make sure it's permanent.  Because I don't know what the size of it's going to be. It. I applaud them for doing it. I think it's a great idea and just want to make sure that they do it legally. And check right now there is no permits on it. So.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So if you want. I did speak to City Hall today because I was just made aware of it too. And so we are working to make sure that the

[R17201-14] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Wayne Hemingway: I just want to make sure that you guys get your.
TEXT> Time fair. Thank you. We appreciate that. So we just heard it and we applaud the. Students for something on that. Yes, we. We're notifying the students that they need to pull this permit. Somebody school, right.
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: Yep. No, I totally agree. That's a that's a good use of education and process. Outstanding. So good luck with that.

[R17201-68] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Okay. Are you going to change slides for me? Okay. Thank you, Mr. Angel. Thank you.
TEXT> Yep. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Well. Good evening. And  as Mrs. Kennedy said, we're here tonight just to kind of check in on the state of the state  after  completing what is called our mid-year benchmark assessments. So  both Mr. Blunt and I have,  reports for you this evening. They are slightly different. And our hopes is that we can  our schools do very different things. We've kind of taken different approaches to them to try to give you kind of a full picture. It would be much more exciting for us if you were able to live them with us. But since you can't, we'll do our best to bring it to life for you here. Next slide please. So we're going to get started with our first benchmark assessment. I ready and many of you are familiar with I ready. It is an adaptive assessment that is done on a computer three times a year.  And it adjusts to where the student is performing at the moment to find that sweet spot for next steps in instruction. It is animated,  and we find that kids either love that or they hate that.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So, that can go either way. So I also wanted to show, and I apologize, they don't copy as well as they do into a PowerPoint. The this is actually

[R17201-70] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: who were, early on grade level or mid-year above grade level. Yellow is one grade level below red, or the two variants of red are below grade level. So what you want to see in this, you want to see those from the fall bar.
TEXT> You want to see red percentages go down. You want to see that yellow percentage possibly go down. Sometimes you want to see an increase because reds are moving to yellow, which is a good thing. Ultimately you want then to look at those greens and you want to see green increasing. So you can see green. Green grade level went from 23% in the fall to 36% on our most recent. So still not where we want to be. And you can see down at the bottom of the number of students. So we had 20 students  who were above or above grade level at the beginning of the year. Now we have 4946 who are early grade level, now 54. We had 130 students who were in that one grade level below. So kind of those kiddos.  From 130 down to 115. We had 49 students at the beginning of the year who were two or more grade levels below on this assessment,  down to 39 and from 40 to 28 for the lowest level. So headed in the right direction, but still absolutely not close to where it needs to be.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Next slide please. Another way that our teachers look at data, I just want to kind of give you an idea about. So what do we do once we get

[R17201-71] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: the beginning of the year who were two or more grade levels below on this assessment, down to 39 and from 40 to 28 for the lowest level. So headed in the right direction, but still absolutely not close to where it needs to be.
TEXT> Next slide please. Another way that our teachers look at data, I just want to kind of give you an idea about. So what do we do once we get this data. We then look at it by domain. And in reading it's broken into the following categories. The way this can help us, for example, is we could say okay, our lowest domain is this. Is that a curriculum issue. Is that a how we're teaching it issue. Is that  how much time we're devoting at issue. This is not yet at student level data. So this gives the the teachers the opportunity to think about their instruction, their planning are their needs for professional development here.  Clearly, the other thing we also like to do every now and then is celebrate and whatever we're doing for high frequency words we want to keep doing. So we want to identify that because we don't want to change it. It seems to be working.  When we get into comprehension. Overall comprehension is great to look at. But we want to look at literature versus informational text.  We want to take a look at are we taking a balanced approach in our instruction, and ensuring that there is equal opportunity for students to engage in each of those kinds of texts?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We can go from domain data to grade level data, and so we can look at each grade level in the school K through five. Our kindergarten teachers do get

[R17201-93] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: Is this data shared with parents?
TEXT> Every student gets their individual report. Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so so the parents are aware. Absolutely of where their kid is.

[R17201-94] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Every student gets their individual report. Yes.
TEXT> And so so the parents are aware. Absolutely of where their kid is.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Yes. Yes.

[R17201-102] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (merged into the Maple Ave principal's cluster; te | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Believe he gave it to you from New Hampshire. Sass. Yeah.
TEXT> Now I'm wondering,  from my own experience with older kids, how much of the how much of this is content and how much of it is the way they approach the test?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I would say.

[R17201-115] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> So  and we'll talk a little more about that as well.  And we've also, to be perfectly honest, we've done I ready for a long  time. And I honestly think kids are sick of it, to be perfectly honest. Fifth graders are sick and tired of it. They're tired of it. They're tired of the format. I think they're ready for something new, to be honest. Could we have the next. Any more questions about this?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do we want to hold questions till the end?

[R17201-119] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: I guess maybe. No. Perhaps because she might be answering the questions within her presentation.
TEXT> I might, I'll do my best. I'll do my best to read your mind. All right. The second reading assessment. You also know  you're all no strangers to data. And the more sources you have, the better.  Because remember, any assessments are given, given experience right on that particular day for that particular child. We also use the devil's the dynamic indicators of basic early literacy skills. Students here are three times per school year. Same thing. And these students, those students who have not met benchmark then become progress monitored in the area. The most foundational area that they were deficit in. And depending how they score, that could be  once a month, it could be twice a month. We'll take the next slide, please. So here is a report from dribbles  for our kindergartners through second graders. And it's set up, of course, the polar opposite of the one I just shared with you read of course. Well below to below. Yellow is at. Above is green and blue is above. So we still want  green and we love blue as well. Yellow depending which way. If it's they're moving from red to yellow. We love that. If they're moving from green to yellow we don't like that. So and you also this is the polar again polar opposite.  Beginning of years on top. Mid year is on bottom. So kindergartners in the beginning of the school year 69% of them were were below or well below.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Currently 39 are 39%. Now keep in mind. These are timed assessments in one minute. So literally you have someone sitting there with an iPad recording your answers while being

[R17201-120] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: to yellow we don't like that. So and you also this is the polar again polar opposite. Beginning of years on top. Mid year is on bottom. So kindergartners in the beginning of the school year 69% of them were were below or well below.
TEXT> Currently 39 are 39%. Now keep in mind. These are timed assessments in one minute. So literally you have someone sitting there with an iPad recording your answers while being timed. It's a little daunting to some kids, to be perfectly honest, but it's a great indicator of automaticity and how well you have it.  Because again, we know the more fluid you are with something, the more you own it. The more you have it, the stronger it is for you of a skill, and the easier you'll be able to use it. So this assessment really helps us predict where there are going to be some challenges for kiddos. Okay,  so you can see again combined  at the beginning of the year in kinder, we did not have anyone at or above. We now have 26% of our kindergartners. And then same process for for one and two. We'll take the next slide and we'll look at three, four and five. So what we're we look at those yellow bands. We say that's great. But those red bands concern us.  So we had for example in fifth grade 50%. Excuse me, 46%. At the beginning of the year, we're now up to 50%. And you say, oh my gosh, did kids lose reading skills?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: They did not lose skills. The benchmark increases. The text gets more complex. The words per minute increases. So the expectation increase increases from beginning of year assessment to midyear

[R17201-123] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: and ops algebra and algebraic thinking is going to be a little harder for you. So this one would cause us to to ponder a little bit about why that's so not question it in a negative way, but say again, what are we doing?
TEXT> We want to continue with that. Geometry is a tricky one.  Almost every math curriculum program that we've used or had in the past, geometry is one of the final units taught. And so if pacing wise, you do not get all the way through the program. You don't hit geometry. And if for a couple of years that happens to you, that's a big problem. And so we've talked a lot as as a staff in terms of how do we start to maybe it is a unit further on, but how do we bring some of those concepts in, maybe through our morning message, maybe through a problem of the day?  How do we kind of bring those types of questions and  conversations into play sooner rather than waiting for that area of study? So all none of that has been at the student level yet. And so teacher thinking here is around things like how does this align with what I see every day? There's that really large chunk of data that is so incredibly important. How does this align with what I see this child doing each and every day in my classroom?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: That's key. What domains have we taught the within this far thus far? So in numbers and ops what have we taught in geometry? What have we taught in vocabulary?

[R17201-124] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: here is around things like how does this align with what I see every day? There's that really large chunk of data that is so incredibly important. How does this align with what I see this child doing each and every day in my classroom?
TEXT> That's key. What domains have we taught the within this far thus far? So in numbers and ops what have we taught in geometry? What have we taught in vocabulary? What have we taught so far and how does that align? Is there a curricular element that's missing from the program we're using, and how are these skills assessed versus how I'm teaching them a great one in math. I will use an open number line to to  assess kiddos. We haven't always had a program that teaches open number lines. And so again, that's been something that's been a little bit different. Standards do not change. The standards are same standards we're teaching towards. But somehow the sometimes the approach is a little bit different. So here we have our  math scores broken down by grade level. Again same same kind of thing. Are we seeing numbers go in the right direction. Yep. Not as fast as we'd like. And not as intensely as we would like, but we are seeing growth again. 2% growth. We get it. You know, that sounds great, but it's only a couple of students. We're happy about those kind of students, but we want way more than 2% growth.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We'll take the next one. So then we get to right. We've looked at this as school data. We've looked at it in domain data for curriculum questions. And now

[R17201-127] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: going to take six weeks and we're going to intervene on these skills. What you don't see apologize. If I made it any smaller, you all would have needed stronger glasses. Would be the exit criteria from that group. So our intervention will be successful.
TEXT> Kids will be able to meet that instructional focus if they can do this. And that's the exit criteria. We talk about the frequency of their intervention. And then we get into who's going to be providing that intervention. So we have  in this one for example we have three title teachers going two special educators. And then we'd have five groups. We do this by grade level to maximize resources. So this isn't per classroom. This is by the grade level. And when we design our master schedule, we design it very purposefully to ensure that a grade level can have all of those resources at that time. So, for example, Fred might be in in Mark's classroom, but he might be in my intervention group. We found that so helpful for many, many, many reasons. Because our teachers have different experiences, they have different skill sets, and they're able to do some collaboration about  gee, when when marks in my group, I noticed he's really struggling with this. Yep, I noticed that. So in tier one, here's what I have to do and the other way around as well.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: In tier one, I notice Mark is really struggling with this. Lauren has them for intervention. What? You know, I noticed you guys are working on these sounds. What have

[R17201-131] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: don't have our traditional team time that we've been having, and that's when we have a lot of these conversations about pacing, about assessments, about looking at student work together. Lack of behavior support we talked about. And then we always have to be mindful.
TEXT> And this is not a negative slam at any one of a taught versus learned mindset. Well, I taught that. Why didn't they get it as opposed to they haven't learned it yet. What am I going to do next so that they do. And that's just something we all keep each other in check with. What's our action plan moving forward, we're going to continue some professional development and implementation of UDL practices. The the very the most simplistic version of UDL I can give is planning with all learners and learning needs in mind. So how can I plan this particular lesson so that every single student in my classroom can get the most out of this lesson? Knowing I have a kindergarten reader all the way up to a fifth grade reader. How  will be identifying some non-negotiables  for all intervention groups, such as every intervention group, no matter what level, will do five minutes of phonemic awareness.  All intervention groups in math will have some kind of fact fluency going on, right, as a school will establish those. That's actually in our upcoming work for our PD. Time coming up, we really want to take a look at
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Oh, sorry, I was jumping ahead. Individual classroom data review by standard. My teachers next week. They don't know this. So if they're watching tonight they're going to get a

[R17201-132] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: minutes of phonemic awareness. All intervention groups in math will have some kind of fact fluency going on, right, as a school will establish those. That's actually in our upcoming work for our PD. Time coming up, we really want to take a look at
TEXT> Oh, sorry, I was jumping ahead. Individual classroom data review by standard.  My teachers next week. They don't know this. So if they're watching tonight they're going to get a little preview, are going to be asked to go into their grade books and print by standard to find out which kiddos are not meeting which standards when they when they enter their trimester. Two grades. And so what are we going to do about it? Right. It's not okay to put a not yet proficient and then move into trimester three. So what's the plan to help that kiddo get their  identifying strategies for summer slide. That's we. We do notice that we can end the year feeling really good about our data, right. And then we do that fall benchmark the next year. And it's dropped. And we're like, and so we want to try to get creative and think about how we can continue that summer, helping kids keep those skills so that  it's not we're not having to spend a significant amount of time in the beginning of the year doing a review with grant money and back fluency. We're going to go back to a little bit of fact boot camp.  I don't know about anyone else, but Barbara Doolittle taught me my facts in third grade, and I learned them. And I have no issues with multiplication. Now, I can tell you that. And  the excuse. Me.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I sure did go to waste school. And, we I don't want to say we've gotten away from just like the science of reading has altered our thinking about teaching

[R17201-140] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (the chair recognizes 'Mr. Sprague' in the precedi | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Exactly.
TEXT> And  so especially we went to two competencies where pacing became pretty critical around intervention groups.  The people who were covering became very impatient with the people who were focusing on mastery. The other irony is geometry.  We in looking in our own data teams at Stevens,  looking at why were kids not proficient in math, and it was always geometry, and it was geometry for two reasons. One reason was you had some kids who hadn't had it yet. And you had another group of kids who were in stage two calculus who were not proficient in geometry because they had had it in a block schedule so long ago. They had taken advanced math or algebra at the middle school into geometry. Two years later, they're taking a geometry assessment.
NEXT> Unidentified speaker: Yeah.

[R17201-145] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: It applies at all grade levels. And there's things to be learned.
TEXT> And I think it's really important that you look at it through all the different lenses that can be offered right by domain, by skill, by standard, by student.  You learn something different each approach that you take so that you're you're not just trying to this kiddos at this level. Boom. Done.  There's much, much more that you can gain.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. This is a great. Presentation.

[R17201-162] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: And then please pardon my ignorance, but when we get to the domains. Those domains I mean I understand what algebra is, I understand what geometry is but not in K through fifth grade.
TEXT> It's the math domains numbers and operations. Yep. That's going to be like your foundational  place value and facts and those kinds of things. Measurement and data. Just what it sounds like. Measurement and then graphing and how you organize a range present and question and answer  data. Measurement and data can also. Include. Coins sometimes, which is a bigger challenge this day because a lot of things are electronic and not as many kids are handling coins like they used to be too. So it just sometimes is like coin identification. Analog clocks  in a lot of clocks is always an assessment piece. But we're in a digital world, so we try and we teach both, but we want we'd love for families to do more analog teaching in old fashioned watch, get those Judy clocks going and show the students how to do it that way.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So and what would geometry be?

[R17201-171] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Yes, that's an easy comparison that we could pull together for you. Absolutely.
TEXT> See what that that was.  And then I had a question about how do we maybe I missed it in the presentation. How do we evaluate growth versus benchmark. So.  To the point about identifying that there are kids that are moving even within the spectrum of, yes, you know, are they getting closer to meeting.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So every kiddo gets a scaled score. And then there are parameters for each area. So to be early grade for your scaled score must be a minimum of this.

[R17201-173] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: and their teachers have written it for them and it will say plus 42. They went from a 300 to a 342. And they're so excited to share. That's progress. Proficiency would be more of their in the. Mark piece. The benchmark piece you do.
TEXT> I'm sure you do. But it would be great. I would like to see where kids move as far as individual growth.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We can show you more. You know there's a quadrant. Another point. Yeah, yeah we can do that. And it talks about low achievement, low growth, high achievement, high growth.

[R17201-175] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: We can show you more. You know there's a quadrant. Another point. Yeah, yeah we can do that. And it talks about low achievement, low growth, high achievement, high growth. And we can show you some more.
TEXT> Of those. We have a lot of kids that start below.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Absolutely. Well the other thing we can show.

[R17201-178] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: You there in the dugout instead of on first base.
TEXT> And  there's also another there is a growth report that I ready offers. And so that you can see if kids have met or exceeded their annual target, you can see if they have met or exceeded their growth target. So we can absolutely get you that information.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: For me, that would tell me a lot about the educators, more than the benchmarks. Yeah. So when when you evaluate teachers because, I'm sure that you you are you

[R17201-179] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: another there is a growth report that I ready offers. And so that you can see if kids have met or exceeded their annual target, you can see if they have met or exceeded their growth target. So we can absolutely get you that information.
TEXT> For me, that would tell me a lot about the educators, more than the benchmarks. Yeah. So when when you evaluate teachers because, I'm sure that you you are you you do make connections between kids that are successful in specific areas where  we're specific classrooms. So how do you get  those weaknesses in their skill set or their exceptional, exceptional pieces of their skill set?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So part of it is if it's if they're on an observation year, right, then we're going to be in the classroom and we'll get to see that. And I

[R17201-180] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: teachers because, I'm sure that you you are you you do make connections between kids that are successful in specific areas where we're specific classrooms. So how do you get those weaknesses in their skill set or their exceptional, exceptional pieces of their skill set?
TEXT> So  part of it is if it's if they're on an observation year, right, then we're going to be in the classroom and we'll get to see that. And  I think folks would be very surprised when when I say to a teacher, you know, I need to come in and  I'm excited to come in and see, see your classroom, get your evaluate your evaluation observation completed. What do you want me to see? They'll go with the one that they're struggling in. Many, many will say, I'm having a hard time fitting everything in and during math, I'd love for you to come and give me ideas. Right? And so it's really through those conversations and being able to see it live and inaction where we can say, okay, the you feel like the barrier is time, pacing, momentum. Let's look at that specifically. And then our feedback can offer that and then we can get into then. So how do you think this impacts how your kids are doing  on scores on testing things like that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So do you use the scores themselves. And I'm not asking for a punitive but to be able to say, well, you know, you see year after year kids struggling

[R17201-181] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: like the barrier is time, pacing, momentum. Let's look at that specifically. And then our feedback can offer that and then we can get into then. So how do you think this impacts how your kids are doing on scores on testing things like that.
TEXT> So do you use the scores themselves. And I'm not asking for a punitive but to be able to say, well, you know, you see year after year kids struggling in certain domains coming out of service.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: As part of their formal evaluations, like.

[R17201-188] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: But I think that's a helpful. I was just curious about.
TEXT> How other place, in all honesty, that you see,  where the I, I would say that there's even more meaningful conversations than me having that conversation with the teachers when they're having it as peers. So, for example, when we do our data meetings, we share every kid's data, right? And we don't do it by teacher, we don't present by teacher, we present by kiddo. And when we look and talk about, well, geez, last, you know, last,  cycle, they were this for numbers and ops, and now they're here. What have we been doing for them? And the intervention teacher speaks up and says what they were doing. And then the classroom teacher, if it's not the same person, can say, oh, that's something I can try. So yep, this didn't work. So I started using this approach. And that's where we're really building the toolkits of each other is during those conversations that team times really, really important.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I do notice as well that we should expect that there's a lot of growth in K through one, and then we really seem to stagnate and go kind of

[R17201-190] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: next question is what do you need? Is it more bodies? Is it more time? Is it more targeted professional development? Are you happy with the programs and curriculum that we have right now? Do you think that they meet the needs of our students?
TEXT> I would always defer to teachers on that. I'd offer input as well, but teachers should have the most important say there. I will say when you get up to. So we have  a phonics program K to three.  Again you've got to get through that. So pacing is really important. Fourth and fifth grade we're using a very small component of another program for some multi syllabic  word approaches. I think that's something we'd like to look at again and see if there's another way we could beef that up a little bit more.  The other thing, it sounds cliche, but third grade, I would say I taught third grade for over ten years about middle of third beginning of third grade. Their second graders end of third grade. They're intermediate learners.  You switch from I was learning how to read to now I'm reading how to learn as a way to learn. And if you're not proficient in reading, by the end of third grade, you're really stymied.  Moving on with the Wit and Wisdom program we have. That's a it's a content based program. And so the text is complex  and it is meaty and it is it is rigorous.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And so if you are struggling, reader print off a page at that point is difficulty is difficult for you. But there are so many other components of wit and

[R17201-192] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: that you can access the conversations, the Socratic seminars, the writing piece. And so it's about every kiddo finding their place in that program. But yeah, if you're a struggling reader, by the end of third grade, fourth and fifth grade is difficult for you.
TEXT> And one more question, then I'll stop.  I've been reading a lot and watching a lot about the Mississippi Miracle and the southern surge, and  the kind of rejection of social promotion  now, and that the success that other states are seeing with not promoting kids  past third grade unless they have met their benchmarks. Do you have any thoughts on that or  any? Because it seems to be like there's a lot of success in poor states, extremely poor communities with,
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I will say this, I have as a teacher, I taught a multi age classroom for that reason alone. I had a I was a third grade teacher. I had

[R17201-193] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: that other states are seeing with not promoting kids past third grade unless they have met their benchmarks. Do you have any thoughts on that or any? Because it seems to be like there's a lot of success in poor states, extremely poor communities with,
TEXT> I will say this, I have as a teacher,  I taught a multi age classroom for that reason alone. I had a I was a third grade teacher. I had a  small group of fourth graders that in good conscience I couldn't send them to fourth grade. They weren't ready.  But retention was not an option at  that point. And so I agreed to do a multi age classroom. And then I wasn't bound to grade level programs. I was bound to standards and I could teach standards to children where they were at.  We had a school psychologist at the time who loves data, and he agreed to do it as an action research project. And what we found were my kiddos made  a minimum of a year and a half to two years growth. I didn't change anything about the way I taught, so that was an alternative to retention.  And I did. I have over the years seen kiddos be retained, retained students. I have seen one that I would consider successful, and I don't, and does not mean that that child left the second year at grade level. They left a bit more mature, and they left with a few more skills to at least keep them with their peers.
NEXT> Unidentified speaker: Thank you.

[R17201-196] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Mark Blount: window into how we use data to make decisions and shape instruction every day of the school year. Why helping us plan for the future. So, this first slide, I cut mine down basically. You see, these are the overall results of grade level to.
TEXT> Thank you, Melissa. Early  grade level and above in the fall and winter, early grade level and above at each of the grade levels,  both in math and in  reading.  So as you can see,  we've made growth across  all of the grade levels  except one  where it was,  it remained there was no change. But I do want to highlight that particular grade level, even though it stayed steady. As  Melissa had  pointed out in her slide, she showed you, you know,  the one grade level below two grade levels, below three grade levels, below at  the, at the grade level, where it shows no change. I have to tell you though, there's really if I showed you that other side of the of the significant growth of students moving from 2 to 3 grade levels below to just. A little bit. Below, there's about 23% that I think can move into the early  grade level and above by the end of the year. So  there's a lot of good news, even though that score doesn't show it there. There's there's growth there. There really is. So and reading as you can see,  we made some really nice gains there as well.
NEXT> Mark Blount: So just wanted to point that out. Let's go on to the next slide. Excuse me again. So this is our devil's results. And Melissa pointed out the colors to

[R17201-197] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Mark Blount: above by the end of the year. So there's a lot of good news, even though that score doesn't show it there. There's there's growth there. There really is. So and reading as you can see, we made some really nice gains there as well.
TEXT> So  just wanted to point that out.  Let's go on to the next slide. Excuse me again. So this is our devil's results. And Melissa pointed out the colors to for you. And they haven't changed  on this slide. But I there's just some notes I just want to point out  on the on this particular slide. So if you look at kindergarten it showed at the beginning of the year that red line that 62% of our kindergarten students arrived at high risk. I want to tell you, though, between the time they entered our doors to February, when we finished doing our benchmark test and the kindergarten team cut that number to nearly in half by mid-year. So the important note is that it is a team. So when I talk about team, it's the grade level teachers, the title one teachers, the special educators,  the service providers and the pair educators.
NEXT> Mark Blount: That's the team, right? That we wrap our wrap our hands around our each of our kids. Also on this slide, four of the grades K, one, two and four

[R17201-228] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: I'm just trying.
TEXT> To, but I must say, you know,  as Melissa Echo, that is a that is a piece. So and we do know that  based on, you know, many research studies I just shared one to carry recently. You know, if you have,  kids, particularly at k one and two that are missing more than nine days out of the year, that's going to directly correlate to how well they'll be able to read at grade three.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Nine, nine days. That's 5% of.

[R17201-235] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: It's it's
TEXT> Why why you bring that up. You know, Melissa was talking about what? She's going to have her folks do it earlier. Release our focus. Because of your question, we're going to be looking at cell social emotional side of kids and attendance. Yeah. So we are we're going to take a deep dive as to, you know,  what's going on there. And I do echo it's been great to have Scott come back. Scott Maple really has.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And I think that's really important.

[R17201-255] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Superintendents report.
TEXT> Okay. I'll try and be as brief as possible, but so just a quick shout out. This is,  School Social Workers Appreciation Week. And so we do appreciate. So I just want to give a shout out to Courtney Porter, Brandon Teatro Colon and Molly Monette for all that they do to our support, our families and students every day. Obviously recognition, but it's nice knowing and special recognition times too. So,  just a quick thing and just to have a look,  you should already have the board has a copy. There are a few copies here. The annual report is printed. It's available. We will have it on voting day next Tuesday at the schools, the voting sites  just to make sure. So Disney and CMS, there are a few here.  And then there are some copies. So we have a limited number. But I appreciate Jen guest a lot of work with Chelsea on making sure it's ready. Each principal is did a great job making sure it's in there.  So there are it's about 50 ish pages or so, 52 pages. So  but it's available. If anybody is looking for information, please take a look at it.  And it may help more decision making come Tuesday for voting days. You're just again a reminder of voting day on Tuesday, March 10th.  So we appreciate your patience as we're working through the calendar. We want to get it to be the best calendar presentation possible.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So we'll bring that to you the next time. And thank you again to Mark and Melissa for the presentation for the middle of the year data. We'll keep working

[R17201-259] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: dependent on when she can get the grant. But we wanted to make sure before we move forward. What was because it would allow our students access to Minecraft, and we want to make sure it's limited and it's not available during the school day.
TEXT> And, you know, we're not necessarily pushing that. But as she's testing this program and this would be something available if it goes through to be accessible, just like other video games and things for families and things to happen. So she did find out that she said when, most universities and colleges, they use schools right in their neighborhood. And she's like, that's great. But we don't have necessarily always a school right here. And she said she felt that this would be something beneficial. She loved Claremont. She's from here. She spent 13 years here, so she wanted to include us in it.  And to be able to give some rural access to things. And she said that's what she's found. Most of her research is that it's always more urban students that have access to that. And so to equities it to be including rural sections. So  what we're looking to see is if anybody would make a motion so that we would be able to just have her look through. So it's obviously she still has to get the grant.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And then they still have to do if you're familiar with research, they still have to do or they have to have forms that fell out there saying, yes, you

[R17201-286] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Okay.
TEXT> And that's pretty much where I've got first so far. Right now  let me just confirm for the notes for a minute. Anything else?  Just for future use. Like I said, we have the monthly attendances in there as well.  For number of students in our schools.  And again, just keep plugging in for voting day on Tuesday. So and we are working professional development just so you're knowing  and we're sharing out with all the staff to what our plan is for everything else. So we do have  staff coming in. We're trying to limit.  We appreciate we want people to go vote. So we're trying to limit the access to of our staff at the buildings on the day for voting so that they're not, you know, tying up parking and things like that too. So,  but we're working hard to make sure we're also  just Matt and I had mentioned  with the City Council today to just talking about even the calendar impact and things like, how can we work together as a whole entity in the city to make sure that, you know, there's three voting days next year and so that their understanding like that impacts our school day, too,  because they're using it.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So like, how can we tie into that to make sure before voting days in there, can we make sure that there's any like opportunities to just align things to

[R17201-287] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: calendar impact and things like, how can we work together as a whole entity in the city to make sure that, you know, there's three voting days next year and so that their understanding like that impacts our school day, too, because they're using it.
TEXT> So like, how can we tie into that to make sure  before voting days in there, can we make sure that there's any like opportunities to just align things to guide our calendar too? Because that does dictate when we have students in school and things to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So we appreciate that.

[R17201-363] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: kind of educational opportunity for the board that's formally prepared. Moving on to the next agenda item is our subcommittee reports. Is there anyone other than, the policy subcommittee that would like to give a report or just so I don't go through the list?
TEXT> This is the report of the committee, the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center committee.  We will be having a meeting, later this month. And I just want to give a shout out to the, tech students.  If you can see this at home, the the students are making these mugs that are terrific, and they're selling them. They were lovely to, give the school board members with our name etched on them. But these are for sale. And to support the tech center.  You can certainly do this. They're wonderful. They're really good. And so I would I want to make sure that we, the public sees these as opportunities.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there any other subcommittee? No.

[R17201-368] Loren Howard | School Board Member; delivers the Policy Subcommittee report | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, sure.
TEXT> Sadly, Arlene did not make it. We didn't have policy committee today. But we worked on a little write up just for working for you. So for first read, we've got policy. Even on student school board members.  It'll be  a new policy. Technically, we've had  board members in the past, but this is so different than how we did it before. And it's an official policy rather than just procedures.  So  under HB 1381 from 20 2022, districts which has high schools are required to have at least one.  Previously boards were permitted but not required. In the past we had had we have had two.  I think the only language is that we've changed it to the one required is still room for two  if we want one, but now it says required instead of permitted. So,  we'll be up to date with this policy. Yeah, I would be comfortable.  Or the policy subcommittee recommends first read through adoption,  unless anyone has any sort of comment on it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: This is the which.

[R17201-373] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just look at that.
TEXT> We did have the student representative that we were hoping to bring in soon, so we did table it just because there were a lot of meaty political things going on for the voting and things. So we felt that it was a lot of late night meetings that we didn't want to have the students come in for just yet, so we were hoping to bring them back to so.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We'd like to make a motion.

[R17201-379] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So that would be the person. Okay. And the one the term was blank. Are we are we going to identify what the term is going to be. And I know it was an elected position in the school and not an appointed position.
TEXT> So that's what we were still discussing. Is it maybe a pause like there's somebody who had started it kind of paused when we had like all of the August things happening and then pause and we said, hey, we're supposed to have a student. We asked to bring them back. So I think we can finish that, but then plan for the election for the upcoming year for that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So what would what were your thoughts? Because if we're going to have a policy, we probably. Should. Or should we do a second read?

[R17201-398] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: School year.
TEXT> The student would start October.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: First at the beginning of the year. Yeah. Okay.

[R17201-412] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Loren Howard: That's fine.
TEXT> Let's do governance, maybe talk about it in the principal and get a sense from the students what they would like to do.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I've retracted my motion and I'm going to make a motion. We moved this to second read. Thanks.

[R17201-471] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we're open for discussion. Other than that Mr. Sprague.
TEXT> So the blue section, having worked in middle and high school for a long time,  was involved in a number of student searches. And,  the original one we got was a concern because it did not give the administrators the permission to at least give the parent the opportunity to commend and sort of if the parent can't come in, you can't do the search. And that, in my mind, was a real safety issue. I mean, if you're someone has something they shouldn't have in school, that's a that's a problem. And so this has fixed it. My original concern with what we caught the first time and then it came back with this. So I think my concerns have been addressed with this policy.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other questions.

[R17201-475] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So what is it? Because I, I know, I hear I hear what you have to say, Frank, but I don't like I still don't like that parents aren't notified or don't give consent to their child's positions. Search.
TEXT> The problem is if if a student has a weapon on them or they have illegal.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can we confiscate that? The stuff without I mean, what's the.

[R17201-573] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: All right. You were also going to get me blank report cards.
TEXT> Well, I do have those. I apologize for those to you. The problem is with those is they're very student specific at the grades, and I apologize. I'll share.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Their names.

[R17241-108] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Places. There are places for me to sign. My name is in. In there? Yeah, I did have. I did have some general questions about, so the vouchers that said it was they can't be discussed in public. Is that what your email said? Okay.
TEXT> So the vouchers contain student names on it?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Not all right.

[R17241-116] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Yeah. They can't. Be they can't be released.
TEXT> Okay. The problem is, is, you know, our our best efforts to try to remove student name from this from the data is.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's that's fine. It's just it's impossible. We hadn't dealt with these when I was, when I was on the board before. So.

[R17241-131] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; district staff member and SREA union buildin | 2026-03-18
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Am I good? Yes. Okay. Sorry. Mimi.
TEXT> Ryan's board one. I'm speaking to you all today wearing three hats. Citizen staff member and the SRE union building rep for Stephens High School. I am here today to speak out against the sham, the executive director. Search. In a year when everything. This is doing is being put under a microscope. This search should be happening as much in the public eye as possible. Where are the names of the finalists to start with? Where are the forums for the public to come out and hear from the candidates? Where are the school walkthroughs so students and staff can meet this person who will basically be deciding our future. Where are the after school staff meetings? So staff and ask their questions. Where are the Google surveys to ask the families and the public what they want to see in a leader for this district? And perhaps most importantly, according to the news release on the website. The only person aside from you guys on the interview committee will be one building principal. No offense or admin team at all, but that is a travesty. How do you not have any other staff, student? Teacher? Parent? Anyone representative on a hiring board to decide who is going to run our district?
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: You guys are acting like you were hiring some far away CEO to run a corporation, not someone who is going to come in and help shape students futures and

[R17241-149] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1; science teacher, Stevens High School (self-i | 2026-03-18
PREV> Matt Bean: educator in this school district. And we need some real leadership. And we also need to change the culture to and of having policies like inhibiting people's First Amendment rights are part of those are part of those policies. Perhaps we should change the policies.
TEXT> I don't know which. Had to wear first. Hi, Leslie Peabody Award one.  Yeah, I'm. Gonna wear it. I'm gonna wear my science hat first because I'm a science teacher at Stevens High School, so I just have like three. Super quick updates. If I can just give you guys some good news. Can I do that? Sure. Yes. Okay. Okay. So, Pat, number one.  So as Stevens science teacher, First of all, so thank you to Mimi Rimes. She, she sent me this information two weeks ago  about unh stem mobile van. So I applied, like, just like, wishful thinking, and they said yes. So they are going to be coming to Stevens in a couple weeks. I'm not going to give you the date publicly. But we're very excited. And when they come, the students are going to be representing DNA engineering in a lab called Vibrant Variations. And it's a newer lab for them. So they're going to be here all day at Stevens High School with going through all of the biology classes that we have. So that's six of them. Honors bio. And I might throw my environmental studies group in there too. So it's very exciting. So if anybody from the board wants to come to that reach out, I can give you the date. I can give you the information. Then two other things. I'm going to give you guys more info on.
NEXT> Leslie Peabody: I'll send this to Miss Kennedy later when I have more information. In April, Mr. Milbourne and I are going to be bringing two teams of students to the New

[R17241-150] Leslie Peabody | Public commenter, Ward 1; science teacher, Stevens High School (self-i | 2026-03-18
PREV> Leslie Peabody: in there too. So it's very exciting. So if anybody from the board wants to come to that reach out, I can give you the date. I can give you the information. Then two other things. I'm going to give you guys more info on.
TEXT> I'll send this to Miss Kennedy later when I have more information. In April, Mr. Milbourne and I are going to be bringing two teams of students to the New Hampshire Academy of Science Stem Symposium. That's at Dartmouth Hospital. Last year we went to the place in Hanover with these students. So we've been meeting with them every Friday after school since October. They're very excited to share their findings. We're doing a water. Water, iron in water study with different sources around the community.  So more on that to come. And then finally in May, I am bringing my environment team to Nht to compete in a environmental competition. This has been supported by Sullivan County Natural Resources this year, and we have been meeting every Wednesday. So I'll give you more information on that later. I just wanted to share some good news. So that's that now hat number, I don't know, 40. So as a citizen, I'd like to know a couple things. There's of course, rumors are flying around because they always do. That's what we do. So I just want to know, I have a fourth. Grader.
NEXT> Leslie Peabody: Who was moved from the bluff closure to Disney. She's doing really well at Disney is great. But I want to know now, is she now going to go to

[R17241-156] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent (teacher in another district) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Amanda Barton: informed decisions and a less proactive kind of coming back on decisions, if that makes sense. So I do thank you. I'm happy to hear that the staff heard about those somewhat decisions so far. I'm still a little concerned about realignment for next year.
TEXT> Not because I don't think it's not a good idea. I think that there's a lot of good things that can come from this. We've talked about it before,  having all teachers of the same grade together, they can really collaborate well. We can make sure we're getting a more uniform education. All wonderful things. I think they can also help with our transition to middle school. If all the fifth graders are used to being together before they head up to middle school. But my concern is that are we going to try to realign again in like 1 or 2 years? That is very concerning, because now we're not giving a chance for this new realignment to actually see if it's worked or not. Okay. And then what I now that I heard that example, my heart hurts even more. I have two children who are so excited. They're always been in the same school and they will not be in the same school, right. So there's a lot of like feelings, a lot of grief about this change.  So if we have to change, let us grieve.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: Let us move on. Let there be some real good things that come from it. But then don't ask us to change again and grieve again, because we're not going

[R17241-175] Van Holder | Public commenter, Ward 2; teacher in another district, parent of Maple | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Sorry. I'm trying.
TEXT> Just asked Van Holder, Ward two. I've heard about their realignment, and honestly, a handful of, educators here because I've heard they were not told to come to talk because you've heard enough from them. I am a teacher, not in this district. Y'all didn't hire me, so I'm kind of glad at this moment. I had another district. I'm afraid that y'all keep moving kids around. They will never come back to this district after they graduate. You keep losing kids. You lose the home. There's kids who finally getting back at Maple or Disney or that's their home. They feel comfortable with the teachers, the principals and the routine. Now you're going to make a new routine.  And now they have lost their home again. If it's the younger kids. So if it's a first or second grader, kindergarten first grader, they're moving next year. If they go to Disney now, they got to find a new home and a year later they go back to Maple. The smart way would probably be slow roll this. Every kindergartner is going to Disney. If you're planning to do this, then you maybe move fourth grader some designer to Maple so you don't move in one class.
NEXT> Van Holder: Not a lot of classes. You got to think about public two is how are you doing the transportation after that? Diesel is what, 550 right now you're going to

[R17241-176] Van Holder | Public commenter, Ward 2; teacher in another district, parent of Maple | 2026-03-18
PREV> Van Holder: year later they go back to Maple. The smart way would probably be slow roll this. Every kindergartner is going to Disney. If you're planning to do this, then you maybe move fourth grader some designer to Maple so you don't move in one class.
TEXT> Not a lot of classes. You got to think about public two is how are you doing the transportation after that? Diesel is what, 550 right now you're going to have to bus the whole district  from Cornish Unity area, Charlestown to Disney or to Maple. You're not doing community schools anymore.  I went to a maple because my kids are at Maple right now. Winter concert. I had to get there an hour early to get a parking spot. Stood outside for an hour because the doors weren't open and they were parents still coming in because they were parking at the bowling alley, walking up to the school. When you take away the community now, everybody's got to go park at Maple with 50 parties. What does nor where people going to overflow parking at Disney, the hospital. There's no parking at these schools. I keep taking the community away for the people who can walk to the schools. It took bluff away. When I went to the Maple concert, I saw every parent that was there before. They want to support their kids. They can't walk to bluff anymore.
NEXT> Van Holder: They have to drive the maple. We're going to find a parking spot. The schools cannot handle the amount of people change. The other thing is that they move the

[R17241-177] Van Holder | Public commenter, Ward 2; teacher in another district, parent of Maple | 2026-03-18
PREV> Van Holder: keep taking the community away for the people who can walk to the schools. It took bluff away. When I went to the Maple concert, I saw every parent that was there before. They want to support their kids. They can't walk to bluff anymore.
TEXT> They have to drive the maple. We're going to find a parking spot. The schools cannot handle the amount of people change. The other thing is that they move the schools for better resources. Next step is starting to fire teachers because we don't have enough kids. I've seen it happen before in other school district to put all the kindergartners through certain grades out of school, and they said, what is ten? Let's get here this year. You don't got a job next year. No. Classes went from 15 to 20. After it went from 20, it went to 25. That's fine. Just letting your on.
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: Thank you. Hi, guys.

[R17241-272] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (sworn in at this meeting; term to 2029) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: That's sure. Okay.
TEXT> But I'm looking more logistics. I'd like to see where the classes are going to be. Kindergarten, first grade. Need to be on a certain level. Sure. What are we doing for bussing? Bussing is a huge question that I haven't really seen discussed.  And one is urinals sinks out where they are in their wings. They're going to have to get  things changed out. Has that been has that been budgeted for. Has that been looked at where we're looking at putting certain kids in certain schools?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I know those those items have been discussed during the the whole science, the whole process of budget development, because the budget was based on this for school model and

[R17241-273] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: discussed. And one is urinals sinks out where they are in their wings. They're going to have to get things changed out. Has that been has that been budgeted for. Has that been looked at where we're looking at putting certain kids in certain schools?
TEXT> I know those those items have been discussed during the the whole science, the whole process of budget development, because the budget was based on this for school model and we asked those exact questions, the bussing costs,  the bathroom situations, and they they are they educate me on where what level of students can be on what floor they're there. They know what they've been under consideration of those factors. But I know they've been discussed whether they've been discussed in public. They have in the finance committee meetings, which were public, right.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Where there's just been there's been discussions. I'm wondering why we had further along in that process, I guess, with the planning.

[R17241-278] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: I think there has been some I mean, some of the questions you asked they have addressed.
TEXT> May address. Sure. Okay. So yes, we did. But there was also a question about the tax cap. We did hear from some staff. If the tax cap had gone through, some staff may have decided to leave the district and that would have affected this current year. So even though the tax cap wouldn't go into effect the following year, some staff are saying I'm not sticking around. And they had already given us notice that they were possibly leaving, which would affect, you know, the number of staff and things too. It's still not a guarantee. And just to follow up and put in the notes there too. So we're still looking at the transportation to make sure the the bus where it is right now, it's at the bluff and the bluff goes, you know, the students who are at bluff would go there. So we're, you know, making sure that the bus routes are there, packing times for staff. We're making sure that there's enough packing time at the end of the year, unpacking at the beginning of the year that's being considered and staggered start times is still being considered too, just to make sure, because now there's more likely to have families that have kids in both, you know, both schools.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: There's before you might have had 1 in 1 program and 1 in 1 elementary school, but typically most of the students were together. And we're understanding for sure there

[R17291-38] Mr. Dewey | Representative of the Claremont Kiwanis Club (introduced by the chair  | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: To to picture. You have an. Auction coming up soon that raises money for. To replace the money.
TEXT> Our online option, which we used to do it live right in this space. And that was. That was so much fun.  But it's online now, and that is starting on April 10th through the 18th. So I encourage you to go on and check out what we have to offer this year. We've got a lot of stuff. Of course, you all know that in September we do the Brew Fest, and then in November, December we do bell ringing at Walmart and Market Basket. And those are our three big fundraisers. But, we. We enjoy all of them, and we enjoy the difference that we can make for children in the area.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you again. Thank you.

[R17291-44] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> We are ahead of schedule, but I don't think anyone will cry. So let's go on to  we're not supposed to start the regular meeting until seven, but let's go ahead. There's no reason why we cannot do that. Is there? Does anybody know? Okay.  Okay. So we've already had roll call for the school board, so I don't think we need to do that again. And I would like to introduce two student representatives tonight.  We have Michaela, Carol Gallo. Sorry. And Lily Clark, who are here. And Lily's doing pitch hinting. No, McKayla.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's okay.

[R17291-47] Lily Clark | Student School Board Representative, Stevens High School, Class of 202 | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: two people with us tonight. Thank you very much. And, so we have your report now, if you have a report that you'd like to share with us. Why don't you do that now and tell us. Tell us what you have on your agenda.
TEXT> Okay.  So Stephen's has been doing some awesome things lately.  The seniors just had senior play. It was called puffs, and it was really fun. We were both in it.  And we,  raised $4,341 for a senior class, which is the highest,  net profit for a senior play that Stephen's has had with Miss Kestner being the theater teacher. We've also started this thing. We have a new student led initiative group. It's called a cartwheel initiative group.  We are both part of it. And  we went to this conference,  for Safe Schools, and we were talking to other students at  different districts about, mental health and how our schools handle it and what resources we have. And we got to learn about this new program called cartwheel. And it's an online therapy program that, our school, Newport,  Kearsarge, Lebanon, and everyone has access to right now. It's a free online therapy that, most people can't get into therapy for months, and they get you in within, like ten days. So while we were at that meeting, we learned that Lebanon High School has a whole week called Wellness Week, where everyone takes, like, a mental break.
NEXT> Lily Clark: And we all loved it so much that we came up with an entire plan to have a wellness week at Stevens High School. And we, showed it to all

[R17291-51] Lily Clark | Student School Board Representative, Stevens High School, Class of 202 | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: The cafeteria?
TEXT> Yes. There. We owe them so much for that week. And then while that was happening, we had dodgeball and kickball in the gym, which was really, really fun, but very insane when you have a bunch of, sports people in playing dodgeball. Let's just say that,  we had karaoke in the,  auditorium. We had a Nintendo Switch in the cafeteria where people were playing Mario Kart against each other. And then the first and second floor teachers had, like, board games and crocheting and all that stuff,  in their classrooms. And everyone really had fun during that. We really want Wellness Week to happen again, and we want to make it a tradition at Stephens. So we've left plans for a whole wellness week and how to lead up to it for  kids in the following grades so it can stay alive at Stephens. Today is April 4th. So as you all know, the music department is very, very fun and we have great ideas.  We actually did an April Fools prank on Doctor Harrington today. So during our senior play,  we had people wearing ghost face masks and choir robes and part of our scenes. So three people from our band, Miles Sheehan, Trevor Adams and Andrew Grady, got into those outfits and started having a fight in the hallway right in the middle, where we knew Doctor Harrington was going to be because he, works b lunch.
NEXT> Lily Clark: So we had miss even get in on it and make sure that he went down a certain hallway. And then as soon as he went down and saw them

[R17291-103] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Van Holder: The Minnesota Wild only comments now.
TEXT> Fair enough. Thank you. Thank you. I did want to say that the alignment of the K through two and three through five, K through two at Disney and three through five at Maple, was part of the budget preparation. And there is a relative savings because of, the alignment of classes in a particular building allows for a certain staff teacher ratio, staff student ratio that, there is like for example, there might be 15 kids in one class at Disney  for,  grade three and 15  at Maple. And if we have all the same grade in one school, we can better utilize the staff for some cost savings. We also we researched the cost of bussing as part of that budget preparation. So we have done some of that work. We will have some more information about the realignment coming up later in the meeting, but I wanted to address those two concerns. I don't want to get into a debate, but I just wanted to give you that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R17291-116] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (brief fragments the diarizer split out of the chai | 2026-04-01
PREV> Matt Angell: No, no. I'm sorry. Our cash balance is 64,000. Our loan balance is zero.
TEXT> Right. Yeah. Very good. Very good. I'm wondering if the board is at all interested in making a resolution to Claremont Savings Bank as a thank you for them to. For giving us the loan at a time of needs?  Yes, I have, sort of a proposal that the school district faced, whereas the Claremont School District faced an unprecedented fiscal deficit at the beginning of the school year that could have prevented the district from opening school. And whereas the Claremont Savings Bank provided a loan in a timely way to the school district for operations that allowed the district to restructure and open its doors to students alone at the rate of 2%. That which is much better than the state legislature was offering us. Therefore, on the 1st of April, the Claremont Saving Claremont School Board extends its heartfelt gratitude and sincere thank you to Clement Savings Bank for continued support of the Claremont School District. So moved second and I will get your signatures and I will give it to the bank with appreciation. Thank you. We have a motion on the floor in a second. Yes,  Mr. Howard.
NEXT> Loren Howard: I just also wanted to mention they gave us a donation which was greater than the interest that would have been accrued on the loan. So even in that regard,

[R17291-135] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: So it's still stayed. Within the budget, right?
TEXT> No, but I'm just wondering I'm not I'm not worried about the money. I'm worrying about the vacancies, being able to serve the students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: What you're saying?

[R17291-153] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Any other questions. Questions from the board. From the citizens. All right. Then let's move on to the preschool service delivery report.
TEXT> So we have that going up there. There's a visual up here just to see. And so Christina Sanford, who is our preschool coordinator, was going to be able to share something. She's sick. And I told her I would share this for her quickly. So I apologize that it would be brief, but just to kind of talk a little bit about what's happening right now. So we have some drop in services.  And so that's when students receive their IEP, their Individualized Education Program services in a small group or an individual team setting. It is not a typical classroom like some people might think of a preschool. So the team consists of a special education, the preschool coordinator, Christina Sanford. Then there's a speech language pathologist. We have language speech and a  an assistant for speech language. We have an occupational therapist that shared with the groups. We also have some called Coda certified occupational therapy assistants.  And then we have physical therapists for a few small students and then a physical therapist assistant. So those are within shared models within service delivery. So we have them at  Disney and we have preschool students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But then there also we have our students at Green Mountain Children's Center. There's one for all children childcare and then Head Start. So we're responsible for providing services for

[R17291-155] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: a typical preschool readiness program. There's lack of integration and the peer interaction. So it's not, you know, a class of students sitting down interacting and things. So it's students come in for a service and then go home and, you know, throughout the day.
TEXT> So, the related service times are not being utilized efficiently because there's a lot of travel time between all the centers.  And so transitioning. So if the students had been in one space, they could just rotate within a room or something like that.  Then there's bathrooms and other things happening to. All right. So what we're proposing for next year, and we have planned in the budget is the students receive the IEP services. There's a hybrid model. So it's a community setting and some self-contained preschool classrooms. So there would be one classroom. I want to talk a little bit about what that looks like. And so they also have the coordinator. They have the special ed teacher.  And they would have three paraprofessionals. And so this would support the students in the classroom. We would still have the same services. The speech pathologist, the speech assistant, the occupational therapist the occupational.  And then same thing with physical therapist, physical therapist and physical therapy assistant. And so primarily there's a self-contained classroom, with the pairs. And so we would try to do some more push in services. We're looking at a half day model.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We're discussing a Monday Wednesday Friday model Tuesday Thursday model. And just to be able to access more students so we are able to budgetary provide some more services. We

[R17291-156] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: therapist the occupational. And then same thing with physical therapist, physical therapist and physical therapy assistant. And so primarily there's a self-contained classroom, with the pairs. And so we would try to do some more push in services. We're looking at a half day model.
TEXT> We're discussing a Monday Wednesday Friday model Tuesday Thursday model.  And just to be able to access more students so we are able to budgetary provide some more services. We would still continue to provide services for the Green Mountain Children's Center and then the offer one, excuse me, one for all and then the head start. And so it just gives us a little bit more options to see some more students. So we have some students that are able to access programing before they come to school.  And then looking at the pros for that, we want to make sure the students are introduced to the classroom. They have a better school readiness and routines. We'd like to implement the curriculum and assessment more than just services, which is what we're doing now. So then there's some push in therapy. It's happening within the setting.  We're better able to utilize our related services. Staff are right there in the same space.  We can increase the service and programing and provide more and longer times for students because we're not spending time travel as much travel time and then the division of the coordinator and teacher, because there's more students to be able to service.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So it's more efficient in the practices. Unfortunately, there's a kind because it's not the full peer model. It's not a typical, you know, regular preschool fully, but we have

[R17291-157] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: same space. We can increase the service and programing and provide more and longer times for students because we're not spending time travel as much travel time and then the division of the coordinator and teacher, because there's more students to be able to service.
TEXT> So it's more efficient in the practices. Unfortunately, there's a kind because it's not the full peer model. It's not a typical, you know, regular preschool fully, but we have not the least restrictive environment. You know, is a typical preschool setting.  And then there's some challenges with the hybrid model. So it's more than what we've had, but it's not as much as we would love to see. It's getting difficult to test. Excuse me. Predict who was coming in. So we don't have all of our numbers. And so typically you would have a three year old program. Then, you know, that would feed into a four year old program. The four year old would program to feed into the kindergarten program. So we're still kind of winging it to see the numbers each year, just to see we're trying to put out for kindergarten, roundup basically. And, you know, child find to make sure we know who all of our incoming students are. And this would give us at least a better understanding of who the future students are and then just the future of the preschool. So ideally, our goal would be to have universal preschool. So all the students in Claremont would be able to come into preschool.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It would need more spaces, more rooms and things. But then to be able to do some more support for any other programs. And then the Preschool Development Committee would

[R17291-160] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029); member of the ad | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Mr. Oliver, just.
TEXT> Just a comment. If you go back. One slide please. Whenever where I'm talking about little kids and I see implement curriculum and assessment. But please tell me where play based learning.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It's very much play based. Yes. Thank you. No I appreciate that. Yes. It's very much play based. And that is the play is the. The curriculum of this early

[R17291-163] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes, miss.
TEXT> Thank you. So I remember that we, approved within the budget a number of paras.  And was my understanding that every pair that was in the budget was assigned to a special education student. But we we weren't we weren't informed that that was going to require us, that we were actually servicing a different model than the model that we had budgeted for in the 25 budget. Could you tell me the difference in cost between, or how many more parents that we've assigned with this new model? Or early childhood educators?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So we have three proposed paras to support the student's needs. With that, right now, we have more service providers, and that was what was in the budget. In the

[R17291-176] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Matt Angell: About what we need. And, let's see. Let me go and get more specifics on this.
TEXT> What? We're. So this year, it has been a drop in model. We have a classroom, but it's not with kids in the class. It's right. I only come in for services, and then they leave. And? And one of my concerns was I wondered how successful we were in having those students come in on a spot basis. They're not there like from 830 to 1130 every day. How successful were we enabled in getting the students to drop in on that basis? Do you have any idea.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Christina's going to get some more details? There are some challenges for families. Obviously, you know, anything related to whether it's transportation, things like that. And it's it is. And

[R17291-179] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Are sure.
TEXT> This year it's the drop in model. Next year we have plans for a one classroom with the students either Monday, Wednesday and Friday or Tuesday and. On a. Regular basis. Correct. And that new model, this year's model, there is a teacher and a para. And next year's model is a teacher and three parish.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Coordinator.

[R17291-194] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: There's still be the one classroom right now.
TEXT> And there were about this year there were like 36, 38 students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: There's 49, I believe it was, but there was there's 42 students that received the services, and there's seven students who were in the referral process.

[R17291-195] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: And there were about this year there were like 36, 38 students.
TEXT> There's 49, I believe it was, but there was there's 42 students that received the services, and there's seven students who were in the referral process.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Okay.

[R17291-200] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh. I'm sorry. Yes.
TEXT> There was. Another follow up item that I'd like to discuss. You might remember that last year,  Arlene and Lauren did a yeoman's job on the policies. And then we went on the tours. And, you know, my thing is regular and discipline.  And we saw that the administrators, the teachers and the students didn't know what the dress code was. A month ago, Miss Kennedy committed to addressing this by tonight. I'd just like to know,  how are we doing the the policy changes getting distributed and publicized,  and is it being implemented?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We're going to actually have the discussion about that, but we have the two administrators from the upper grade levels that you were concerned about. But they are looking at

[R17291-201] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: the teachers and the students didn't know what the dress code was. A month ago, Miss Kennedy committed to addressing this by tonight. I'd just like to know, how are we doing the the policy changes getting distributed and publicized, and is it being implemented?
TEXT> We're going to actually have the discussion about that, but we have the two administrators from the upper grade levels that you were concerned about. But they are looking at the policy. So we don't have a specific staff policy. There's a student policy, and that's what we're trying to review for our employee handbook.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: But has the word gotten down to the students?

[R17291-203] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: But has the word gotten down to the students?
TEXT> The students I will have the administrators who are up on the agenda tonight to give them more updates on that.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Any other comments or questions? Okay. I think we're going to move on to discussion items. And the first one is the student. No, it's the school. Is that right?

[R17291-204] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: The students I will have the administrators who are up on the agenda tonight to give them more updates on that.
TEXT> Any  other comments or questions? Okay. I think we're going to move on to discussion items. And the first one is the student. No, it's the school. Is that right? School resource officer.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Oh, school resource officer. Yes.

[R17291-210] Chief Brent Wilmot | Chief, Claremont Police Department (introduced by the Interim Superint | 2026-04-01
PREV> Chief Brent Wilmot: happened about 13 months ago, but she also handles things. And because she's working in on duty, she becomes aware of things that are happening off your campuses and can alert the campus to go into some sort of shelter in place or lockdown status.
TEXT> And I can come up with all kinds of situations over the last 10 to 15 years of when that has happened. There's other things that she does it  on top of, you know, pushing into classrooms when the teachers ask for her to give a lecture or something like that. If we become aware of students or faculty or not, hopefully not faculty, but parents who have court paperwork or something like that, she can help with the service. She can help with threat assessments. And then she helps with other, I say quasi judicial, but there's like a, a  panel for discipline that she sits on. We really try to draw a distinction between school discipline and the criminal justice system. And we keep those two things very, very separate. We recognize that what happens in the school 99% of the time should stay in the school. And in those rare instances where a delinquency petition needs to be done. She's right there. And she can do it. She can walk them through it. So I could go on and on. Mrs. Kennedy told me that I had to be stuck to five minutes, and I  have a very hard time doing that. So I'm just going to stop talking now. But I will answer any questions.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: First of all, we want to thank you, and we want to thank the Claremont Police Department and the city of Claremont. You folks have have in this year of

[R17291-291] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029); member of the ad | 2026-04-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: all of this information be placed directly into the minutes. And just speaking for me personally, I'd be interested in seeing the public's thoughts on these once they're uploaded into the minutes, because there's a lot of interesting stuff that I had no clue about.
TEXT> So I just want to read this comes from Doctor Harrington's work and, and I'm just going to read this verbatim. So the long runway in school family benefits, the 712 middle high school model might mitigate the ninth grade dip in GPA that occurs with our current ninth grade transition. Students would no longer transition during the critical 9 to 12 grade years. When GPA is evaluated by colleges. Could improve graduation rates. Another benefit. And again, I'm going to make sure this is all available to the public.  Lowering the cost to exist for creates a sustainable internal surplus. Captured savings can be reinvested in competitive staff wages and enhanced student support.  Generalized and efficient Sped services while maintaining a stable, responsible tax rates for the community. And I'll read one of the challenges how self-contained special education programs currently housed at CMS would be integrated need further investigation  could not combine middle and high school life skills programs can only house students together within a four year age span. So again, to the public. This was not everything is rosy. This looks at the hard truth, right?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: So it's just a contingency for gathering data. Another important point that the folks will see is, the preschool program model options, which, when you look at the savings and

[R17291-398] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: times. Yeah. Because the district is so overburdened with them, and. And it's not just the attorneys, unfortunately. It's, I think you have one point. Told me you spend 15 hours a week on it yourself, and then you've got human resources working on it.
TEXT> We spend a significant amount of time and I understand people's rights. No, and I'm not denying that. It's just the the labor power that it takes to get those. Some of it is vetted because we do have to go through legal when there's certain emails or certain things that we have to do just to protect student identify personal identified information, things like that. But it's also labor intensive with, with dollars to and so that's something I don't know if you're ready to talk about.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think it's important for the school board to know that during the month of February, the Right to Know legal bill for that was over $12,400, just to, comply

[R17291-423] Jason Bonneville | Technology Director, SAU 6 (this cluster also holds Mr. Lavalette's re | 2026-04-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: More of a more of a question. Not necessarily this, but I does the district I haven't noticed that use aliases for like superintendent at saw six. Yeah it and you six so.
TEXT> Yeah so we've got we've got a bunch of the they're typically in the Google world they're referred to as groups. So we've got a bunch of different groups that are set up and stuff. There are team there's yeah, we've got very we've got like HR team goes to a certain number of people. There's a superintendent one. So we do have a bunch of those that are set up. We also use them internally just for grade level specifics, so Doctor Harrington can send out a blast to grade ten. Specifically, there's any student grade ten automatically. We don't open that one up publicly. That's just internal use only. We don't really want people spamming entire grades full of kids.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: But I meant more like so the email address would be superintendent that way, right? The superintendent.

[R17291-429] Jason Bonneville | Technology Director, SAU 6 (this cluster also holds Mr. Lavalette's re | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Two, I have a personal one and there is a superintendent.
TEXT> One two. And then there is one, I believe for student services. And then those are linked up to go. So like if somebody emails the superintendent one Carrie. But also Jen gets it as well so that there's just a couple extra set of eyes on it as well.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Business administrator.

[R17291-438] Bill Olson | Interim Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-identified; surname a | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Mr..
TEXT> Yes. Yeah. Olson. Interim principal at CMS.  So this year. You know, each year a select group of schools  are selected to take the Nape, which is the National assessment for Educational Process Progress. This this year, on February 11th, 43 of our eighth graders took that test. We, exceeded the 80% participation. I think we got, like, 85%. And those the scores from those go to the national report card on schools. But the Nape is the largest continuing representation of assessment in the US for k to 12 student knowledge in subjects of mathematics, reading and science seems  has set their New Hampshire test and schedule for the week of May 11th.  And then I would also like to give a shout out our  acknowledgment to the CMS math team led by Miss Canyon. Sam's math team came in fourth place among medium sized schools in the state, and this accomplishment has qualified them for the national cup in May, where the top prize is, I believe, $50,000.
NEXT> Jason Bonneville: Wow.

[R17291-445] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Bill Olson: We had a couple a couple parents opt out.
TEXT> So. Okay. I just wanted to clarify that. So the reason we don't have 100% is parents have the choice to challenge. Their students. And does that  does that.
NEXT> Bill Olson: And actually the students themselves can opt out. And so we had I had one parent request and then a student on the day of requested. And if they tell

[R17291-446] Bill Olson | Interim Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-identified; surname a | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: So. Okay. I just wanted to clarify that. So the reason we don't have 100% is parents have the choice to challenge. Their students. And does that does that.
TEXT> And actually the students themselves can opt out. And so we had I had one parent request and then a student on the day of requested. And if  they tell the people from Nape come in and run the assessment and if they go up and say, I don't want to take the test, they let them.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. So so that's why it's 85%, not 100%. Right. Do we get those scores?

[R17291-458] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: This is the math.
TEXT> This is the math. So it says, imagine if all our schools in Claremont won the National. So it's surely something to celebrate in Claremont. So our nationals will be held on May 1st to the 14th, which does overlap a little bit with the essay  testing. But as soon as the graphics are fixed on the website, we'll be getting them out the posters. And so it's just telling teachers, if you look to tell what place your class is in and to share it out. And so looking at specifically, we think that potentially one of the eighth grade math classes might have come in first place. So just sharing a nice little thing that they're looking at the Prodigy National Cup. So way to go CMS students. So we're excited to hear what's going on. And maybe we great to be into the finals to get some grant money.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think that's a terrific achievement. So it is. Yes.

[R17291-463] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. And thank you. Thank you for stepping up, Bill.
TEXT> All right. When the parents. Or the students opt out. So this is the testing where it counts as a zero against us.
NEXT> Bill Olson: No, not not for me. No, not for me. No.

[R17291-478] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> That's my guess. I know that we had an issue, where a student had to to wait to retake it due to an error, and it took a while. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay, so the Saturday is April 7th. Tuesday. Right. And the. Students. Will be about a month before we get those results. And the sass is May.

[R17291-479] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Michael Herrington: That's my guess. I know that we had an issue, where a student had to to wait to retake it due to an error, and it took a while. So.
TEXT> Okay, so the Saturday is April 7th. Tuesday. Right. And the. Students. Will be about a month before we get those results. And the sass is May.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: May 6th six. I'm I'm 99% sure on that.

[R17291-484] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So and civics test too.
TEXT> Well the civics test as the civics test, you have to pass the naturalization test as a part of graduation now. So this year, what's new about that is that we were allowed to give our own version of that. Okay, so the last the last year, that's what we did. And our teachers come up with the test. I took it. Because I love. Civics, and I wanted to see how well I did. They have to get a 70. I think I got two wrong and I was really upset, but I hadn't taken a civics class in 30 years, so I give myself that much grace. This year it has to go through the tide portal, which is the same portal that the sass test is given in, right? So it is a state administered test our teachers administer, and they administer it as a midterm and final to the civics test. Okay. So as parting, you have to pass civics passing that test as part of passing civics. Yeah. And you can take that test as many times as you want. This year we also were able to do,  a one time upload for all the students that passed on our test. Okay. If they pass that before July 1st of last year. Then then they would pass, right? They just uploaded into the system. They don't have to retake the test  that was uploaded to, the Department of Education last week. So any questions?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yes.

[R17291-491] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Michael Herrington: Yeah, I can have. What? What information were you looking specifically? And. I'm sorry, I don't remember you asking. And that's probably my fault.
TEXT> I want to know  of the  the students that get a diploma of distinction, the 27 plus all the other, if any of them opt out. And if they do opt out, I want to know what it is so that we can consider whether or not there should be a carrot and a stick.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Opt out of getting.

[R17291-498] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> I can just follow up to. Commissioner Davis had sent out a letter that I had shared on the website and to Parents Square, just so everybody knows. And so she's also encouraging everybody to take it. So if there's any questions, please reach out to the building administrator. So it's at the high school level. New Hampshire uses the SAT as a statewide assessment. Every student has the opportunity to take the SAT for free, use their scores for college applications, and access a nationally recognized measure that supports post-secondary planning. So she does just encourage everybody to do that. So while there is that potential option, we are asking folks to really reconsider not doing that and really allow your students to take that and you know, and see where they're at it. It's a state of the state and what's happening, and it allows us to see where to help your student. And it's going to help them in the future. So opting out does not necessarily help. And it certainly hurts us financially in things too. So we just encourage everyone to take it so good.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I would hope the opt out doesn't mean just a day off and a day to sit home and play video games. It should mean.

[R17291-500] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington')  | 2026-04-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I would hope the opt out doesn't mean just a day off and a day to sit home and play video games. It should mean.
TEXT> So if. You take the test, if you opt out, you have to be in school. If you actually opt out for the SA2S for the s a because it's so rigorous, it's for our test. I mean that a lot of kids are in there. They are dismissed early. If you don't opt out, you're in all day. So there is that. And for the sass, it's a much less rigorous test. I don't allow students to leave early on that. When you're it's 90 minutes, they can do a 90 minute test and go back to class. So.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I know you're sick of hearing this more than anybody. But we don't require an SAT prep course. You can do it online with v lax. I've always said I

[R17291-515] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: But there's not an employee policy specifically.
TEXT> I'm not talking about employee. We only went to the high school. And I think every class we went into, there were kids with hats, kids with earbuds and kids with hoodies. Right.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So I'm not.

[R17291-522] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Good.
TEXT> I'll start with you. And I are going to be in a disagreement on. Just to give you that heads up. Your issue, from what I understood was about the the policy, around hats and headwear. Right. So when I look at the policy,  where it talks about common courtesy, saying that coverings in some classes will not be worn in school buildings. I look at the structure of it and in that following exactly or these words with the ever changing styles guided from each school's standards of dress would be. This will specify the expectations of appropriate attire determined to be suitable for the age, grade level stage of development and physical facility as determined by the building principal. I will tell you, for in the last ten years, as far as I've gone back, hats have not been part of the prohibited dress of Stevens High School. From the research that I have done, that is been since Pat Barry, and that would be at least ten student handbooks that have been ratified by the school board. That is my understanding of it. If the board has a separate understanding, I will be glad to change my understanding.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: All right.

[R17291-591] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. I think we're down to subcommittee reports and the finance Committee has no report. But the policy Committee always has a report. And so, Mr. Howard.
TEXT> It's a small one. We had a great meeting today. It was our first meeting. The three of us kind of got interested, and we are not on the pace. Arlington. It was our. That's kind of a joke. It's our first meeting. So, yeah, the only thing tonight is a follow up on F.  Last time, there's some confusion about, the date in which student board members were supposed to be elected in conversations, how they had been selected, this time according to bylaw. Some of the notes on the document, set that date as when school board officers would be making an election. And so if we were to pass this policy, it would be for the upcoming school year. And the way that student board reps would be decided going forward would be within the student student governance program already. So that's all that's changed. I think the last time we talked about it, those changes or those notes weren't even on  weren't even on my document. So that's all we have tonight. So it's at a second read now.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So we're looking for a motion to accept in as second read and approve.

[R17291-611] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. So second read with the the blank filled in no later than July 1st.
TEXT> And then sorry to belabor the point, but for context, student council elections are elected in the spring. Yeah. And so it would be part of the responsibilities as officers. So then being elected as those officers would put them in this position. Got it. And then July 1st would be their.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Cut off. Right.

[R17291-615] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: They're not going to be because.
TEXT> Sure sure I, I was not on student council. I have no idea. Yeah. So thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah I guess why would they start if they get if they get elected in the spring, why wouldn't they start then and not why would they wait till July

[R17291-645] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; Chair, SRVRTC Subcommittee | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: For you for the two new members. So they have names on them. These are great. And I know that they're in Michelle's office. I thought she was going to have them here tonight. I'll make sure they get them to you.
TEXT> One thing that is kind of being looked at is. So each program medical assistant, entrepreneur, they have a one and two. So the first section they have intro but then the first section and the second section there was some noticeable drops in numbers from 1 to 2. And part of that that has apparently been rectified for future years is so early on in high school career. Student may take more study halls early on, but then that negatively affects them towards the junior senior year, where they really have a full year because they have to take all, you know, get their credits and classes into graduate towards the end of their career. Which at times has not left in the time to be able to take the tech courses. Because of that schedule conflict. So that's one thing that has been worked on and has been resolved. And is flowing better at this point. I.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Think.

[R17291-674] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; Chair, SRVRTC Subcommittee | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Sure.
TEXT> So I'd like to see the tech director reach out to the Riverview Charter School and just remind our folks at home that they are their own. Saw their public school. They have some students down there that are interested in coming to the tech program, and they went k to eight within our schools. And they've chosen this other path, but they want to take advantage of the tech center. So if we could reach out to them that would be terrific. And the other thing that I was wondering what and I'm thinking in particular of our current fire chief. What would it take at the tech center to get, a firefighting program here? I mean, and I'm just throwing it out there, right? Because we had those programs. And when you think about how the state is configured, the correct me if I'm wrong, the closest firefighting one facility for us outside of Concord would be over on the other side of Vermont.  So I'm just thinking now the box putting a planting a seed, right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Let me tell you that that was on the the planning last year when we were looking at the upgrades to this building and doing a capital improvements plan. That

[R17291-680] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you all. So I guess along those lines, EMT classes people are always looking for for classes like that. They they could be also night classes. Just just again, another revenue source potential.
TEXT> So you could have kids ready to go 18. Yeah. Right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We'll put that on the agenda. Yeah.

[R17300-3] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; convenes and moderates this candidate forum, reads | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: A yes.
TEXT> Well deserved. And it's a lovely, a lovely,  buffet that we have here tonight. So thank you very much. And please thank the culinary staff for, for doing such a great job.  And my name is Candy Crawford, and I'm the chairman of the Clements School board, so that's why I'm here.  Okay, I'm going to start out with a question that we received online, and  we'll swap between questions from the audience and questions online. And some of these people have had a wonderful time writing essays, you know.  So so I'm trying to, you know, make these succinct questions if possible. And the question was, how will you support current curriculum issues that have come about from changing our curriculum every two years, which has contributed to some of the decline in student grades and understanding how will you support curriculum differentiation for our self-contained rooms, and including them in grade level team meetings and professional development, as well as vice versa for general education teachers having understanding on how to support self contained teachers and including them in curriculum based conversations. I think this is about curriculum.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Yes.

[R17300-6] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: So. So tell us about your thoughts on curriculum. We know that we're not hiring a curriculum director, but you're in charge of everything as superintendent. So tell us what you think.
TEXT> And you and the school board may share an understanding that there's a difference between hiring a superintendent and hiring a curriculum director, but the community and staff don't necessarily understand that those are different things. It's important to me that those are different things.  Particularly in light of the challenges that have come to light here in Claremont over the last year. There's some really important work that needs to be done in the central office and with administrators around keeping track of the money and making sure that we're meeting our obligations to taxpayers. And that's probably job number one for your next system leader. Having said that, curriculum is obviously an important piece of what happens in any school system, and where the rubber meets the road is in the moment of engagement between the teacher and a student. So what they're doing matters, and your superintendent needs to understand that and appreciate it. And the question, the multiple questions in the question,  I think, point to some staff dissatisfaction around a lack of clarity about what we're trying to accomplish and how we're going to accomplish it. So my role in that is to create clarity, in my opinion.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: There's I forget the name of the management consultant who used to say leadership creates clarity and then over communicates a clear message. So I should be repeating myself about

[R17300-7] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: the question, the multiple questions in the question, I think, point to some staff dissatisfaction around a lack of clarity about what we're trying to accomplish and how we're going to accomplish it. So my role in that is to create clarity, in my opinion.
TEXT> There's I forget the name of the management consultant who used to say leadership creates clarity and then over communicates a clear message. So I should be repeating myself about things that the school board and staff and I are able to kind of come together and decide our priorities, and then I should just be a broken record about those priorities and making sure that everybody else is acting in accordance with whatever those decisions have been that we make together when it comes to curriculum. We've learned a lot in recent years about  how students learn to read. The whole field of education took a little bit of a left hand turn, starting maybe 20 years ago around reading acquisition. I understand after my tours today that we might be on the right track already here. So that should not be a invent the wheel kind of a situation. We should we should be, based on what I've heard going in the right direction.  So whatever has been changing or is perceived to have been changing over and over, that shouldn't be the case.  You do there. Does it really needs to be somebody, though, who is spearheading curriculum instruction and assessment on a day to day basis, somebody who is not the superintendent or executive director or whatever?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: You can call me anything you want, and many of you will. But respectfully, somebody that doesn't even matter. Somebody needs to be responsible for curriculum every day, and the

[R17300-14] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Kim (surname not stated): you built how how have you built and sustained a culture of accountability from the top down across an entire district, ensuring that everyone at every level consistently meets expectations for performance, policy adherence and continuous improvement. And how will that be tracked going forward?
TEXT> Great. Thank you.  So I, I was raised first as a teacher and then became an administrator in a system that was data driven. And I didn't realize that that was kind of exceptional at the time because as a teacher in a school system, it's easy to see what we don't think. They're doing well. And I was able to do that when I was a teacher, having eventually become a superintendent and responsible for these things and then moved into other systems, I now can look back and see how remarkably data driven that system was. So it's something I've been able to bring with me into my work in my most recent superintendency. I've talked a lot now. I've been there long enough now that some things have changed. But in the beginning I talked a lot about how do we use data and how can we feel okay, not threatened necessarily by looking at data, because data sometimes includes what we would perceive as bad news, right? Kids aren't doing well. Attendance rates aren't what we think they should be. Graduation rates don't seem good enough or whatever. So how do we use data in a way that's motivating and not discouraging is really important?  My responsibility is to be having that conversation with people all the time, because that simply sets the tone and the expectation that data matters, which really means outcomes matter, right?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Because data means we're looking at measures of student achievement. I, I don't believe that test scores are the most important outcome of a school system. But if tests are

[R17300-17] Kim (surname not stated) | Audience questioner — a parent with children in the district "for 11 y | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: that's inclusive, not exclusive. That's encouraging and not discouraging. Beyond that, what else can I add to answer for you? You know, more specifically, you know, my experience is we, you know, we have some fantastic teachers who are right on top of the ball.
TEXT> We have some that are not necessarily,  you know, I'm looking at even, you know, getting into the weeds a little bit. You know, there's a  from my understanding, there's a policy that says, you know,  when a student submits an assignment, the teacher  has to have that grade put in by the following Friday. You know, there are times where we can go months without without seeing grades. And it just makes it tough for parents and students. Excuse me.  You know, when we had, you know, when we have an assignment that was due in early January and we get the grade,  the day before the quarter closes, for example, not allowing the student enough time to be able to,  retake the assignment or redo the assignment and get up to a 70 or something. I think that's what the the policy is.  You know, there's just a lot of little examples  that, that, you know, not really high level, that kind of get into the weeds that I'm kind of looking at, like how, you know, what can you bring to the table to help make sure that that stuff is happening across the board?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So we're not my so so my wife is not freaking out at home like, oh my God. Yeah, I think it's a similar answer. Your superintendent sets the tone

[R17300-18] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Kim (surname not stated): examples that, that, you know, not really high level, that kind of get into the weeds that I'm kind of looking at, like how, you know, what can you bring to the table to help make sure that that stuff is happening across the board?
TEXT> So we're not my so so my wife is not freaking out at home like, oh my God. Yeah, I think it's a similar answer. Your superintendent sets the tone for all staff, right? So first for principals, other administrators, district level administrators, but ultimately for teachers and other stakeholders. Right. Your superintendent sets the tone. So I have a simple expectation that goes directly to what you're talking about. I believe that every professional educator should reasonably be expected to update things like grade books. Or if you're a special ed educator, student service logs on a weekly basis. Right. Not by midnight the same night, because people need a little flexibility in their lives, but on a weekly basis. And my experience shows that labor leaders can agree with me on that, generally speaking. So if we form an agreement like that, it's reasonable that educators update those sorts of things on a weekly basis, then it's actually really easy to address when it doesn't happen because we've agreed it's reasonable. Right. And that, again, it doesn't have to be a very negative, threatening thing. Just hey, this is what we do. This is what we read on.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It needs to be done. Most people with feedback will do the things that we've asked them to do. On the very rare occasions that somebody doesn't, there are processes

[R17300-29] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> David (surname not stated): with the board, it's with the board, not by yourself. Yep. Then you will you will be able to win and successfully include the community so they will support you. And so is. Can you tell me how you feel about what I've just explained?
TEXT> Absolutely. And I think that the areas in which I may be perceived remember, the question was what would my critics say? And I think the areas in which I might be perceived as inflexible are areas in which regulation or law dictates part of what we have to do. Those are areas in which I'm less likely to show a lot of flexibility. But I can explain why. Because there is regulation or law that requires us to do X.  I'll give you an example. If there were a self-contained special education program in the district, it would need to be approved by the New Hampshire Department of Education as a self-contained special education program. And I would require that we seek that approval if such a program were to exist, that wouldn't be open for a lot of negotiation. That would be something I would expect us to do now. What does that program look like? What students does it serve? How do we go through that process together? Bring in the stakeholders and let's figure it out. Whether or not we're going to do it wouldn't be a very long conversation for me, because the real question is, do we want to have this or not? Because if we want to have it, we have to go through the approval process.
NEXT> David (surname not stated): So does.

[R17300-31] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; convenes and moderates this candidate forum, reads | 2026-04-06
PREV> David (surname not stated): So does.
TEXT> Going on to the next question. And this is a different topic.  You've been very clear in your support of school choice, stating that this is necessary in quotes for a functional system, and that schools should compete in quotes for students. Many would argue that this approach shifts public education away from its core mission, and instead introduces winners and losers among districts. Given those concerns, why would this community trust that your leadership wouldn't prioritize competition and enrollment strategy over stability, equity, and long term investment in all students?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Great question, and thank you to whoever sent it in.

[R17300-41] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: for future financial, burdens that we had no control over how many students we might have to end up paying for. How do you reconcile open enrollment with the fiscal responsibility for a district that, people might not understand the value of the current education?
TEXT> So. So the open enrollment law is has not been well understood in New Hampshire since it was passed in 2009, which might be one of the reasons no school system actually operated an open enrollment program until three years ago, and it hasn't been real well understood in the last four years either. And I would argue it's still not particularly well understood. I don't know what the impact of those warrant votes is actually going to be, but the current legislation that's being considered in Concord changes that funding scheme completely, which is really what should happen in other states. It hasn't been passed in, in in states where there are functioning public school choice systems, the state pays that money. And that's what would happen here under the latest proposed legislation. Someone will end up being some districts will end up being the test case for these warrant articles as of today. I don't see it being around here, because there's no place accepting students under an open enrollment program around here. So if they don't have a place to go, they're not leaving Claremont.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We'll take 10%. We'd be happy to have students.

[R17300-42] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; convenes and moderates this candidate forum, reads | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: up being the test case for these warrant articles as of today. I don't see it being around here, because there's no place accepting students under an open enrollment program around here. So if they don't have a place to go, they're not leaving Claremont.
TEXT> We'll take 10%. We'd be happy to have students.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Well, I do know how to run that program.

[R17300-47] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: the Claremont district, this becomes a very important thing to talk about and to go to Concord and advocate for, because to me, that's the fundamental problem. Claremont last year spent roughly $26,000 per student, not including out of district special ed costs or transportation.
TEXT> That should be enough money. The funding problem here isn't not enough money. It's too much money having to come from a place that it's just not realistic to expect people to be able to pay. That's the fundamental problem here. So that becomes, if I'm employed here, my job to go and advocate for and address my concern about the most recent court decisions, particularly the con Val case, is increasing adequacy. If that were to happen, and there's no danger of happening this session. But if adequacy were to increase and the legislature decided, okay, we're going to take all the money we pay in state aid for education and redistribute it so everybody gets more adequacy. One of the ways they could do that would be by reducing what's called differentiated aid. But when you factor in differentiated aid, Claremont actually receives the sixth highest per pupil rate of state aid. That could go down potentially. So there's a very be careful what you wish for situation unfolding here. If the legislature were to increase adequacy it matters a lot how they do it. And this again goes to what would it be my responsibility to engage with the legislature, to go to Concord, to work with the Department of Education and to advocate for there's a scenario where some middle class communities or communities we might even perceive as upper class communities would see a huge increase in state aid for education.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And Claremont could see a reduction. That's a very scary proposition. But that's what some of these suits taken in isolation, could do. So I think that nothing's been solved,

[R17300-56] Michelle (surname not stated) | Audience questioner recognized by the chair — "Michelle, I see your ha | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Michelle, I see your hand.
TEXT> Hi.  I just had a couple of thoughts.  I believe we do have self-contained classrooms in this district. And I think my understanding was that part of one of the first question was, how would you ensure that those students have access to the same grade level peers?  Second, I although maybe the understanding of the finance or, you know, what was in September, in June might not be different, but the reality of what was on the ground was actually very different. So there was an example of  Maple Avenue, fourth grade classrooms that had 14 students that suddenly went to 28. And so that's a very big change for students and parents and teachers that may have, you know, resulted in a drive of people with a, an exodus from Claremont. And so  my other question for you is how would you handle low staffing levels? So as a result of this situation, we've had a lot of staff leave and we have not had a lot of staff. Come on board. And so I've heard you, explain that it seems like everyone should have the role and you would oversee the everyone follows, they are given role. But in this situation, I don't believe we have a curriculum coordinator.
NEXT> Michelle (surname not stated): That we have buildings without nurses. We have buildings that are under staffed with counseling. We, you know, heard of it is saying that I would agree that, like, not

[R17300-59] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: who qualifies for that. To me, that's a serious, probably high priority concern for a system that wants to make sure kids learn to read, write, and do math and then become citizens. I mean, this there's so much research on the value of preschool.
TEXT> It's just it goes without saying. But look, to be fair, I wasn't here. You've dealt with some extraordinary financial pressures. You had a real crisis here. I can't second guess the decisions that have been made. I can only talk about things that would be really important to me to look at and understand better. Moving forward. And those are a couple of those areas, those elementary class sizes. And the preschool situation to me need to be looked at very quickly.  Beyond that, though, that doesn't add a nurse to the system, right? So I have a core belief about staffing that might not be something everybody likes to hear, and it's related to enrollment. So in Claremont, roughly ten years ago, there were over 1700 students enrolled in the school system. Right now, there are well under 1500 students enrolled in the school system. Whatever percentage that is, I try not to do math in my head because I usually manage to bungle it, but chances are  you haven't reduced staff and other capacity by whatever that percentage is. It's just not generally how school systems work. You did this year, right?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Without enough time to do it in the right places, right? Without enough time to no fault of the people who were forced to make the decisions you just didn't

[R17300-60] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: is, I try not to do math in my head because I usually manage to bungle it, but chances are you haven't reduced staff and other capacity by whatever that percentage is. It's just not generally how school systems work. You did this year, right?
TEXT> Without enough time to do it in the right places, right? Without enough time to no fault of the people who were forced to make the decisions you just didn't have time to figure out. And in some cases, you didn't get to choose because people left. They volunteered. Right? Not necessarily from where you would have chosen. My core belief, though, about staffing is you really want to be staffed for the number of students you have, and not have a bunch of extra people running you running around, not because you don't want to provide a stable employment environment for your employees, but because if you get the size right, you can pay better. Instead of paying more people less, you can pay fewer people a little bit better. And then I think it's fair on the other side of that to expect a higher level of accountability, right. People show up. People do the things that we ask them to do. Those grades and service logs get updated every week like we've agreed is reasonable. Like it? It is a two way street so systems can pay better. Generally speaking, when staff are staffing levels are right sized here. There hasn't been an opportunity to do that thoughtfully. So it's kind of necessary to start again. Figure out so what do we not have that we should still have or need to restore? What's their money for obviously is a very big concern here.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's not over. Right. It hasn't all been fixed. There's still work to do. But I think there's a really important interplay between staffing and compensation and other benefits that

[R17300-65] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: average will achieve up to three grade levels below what we would typically consider average grade level expectation. And students in our wealthiest public school catchment areas will achieve up to three grade levels above what we would consider average or typical grade level expectation.
TEXT> So a competency rating that's based on that average expectation, if that's even what it's based on, doesn't work equitably for students in all of those communities across the United States. We have tremendous socioeconomic diversity among zip codes. In fact, ZIP code really is a proxy for socioeconomic status. Hello. New Hampshire. Hello. The property tax system. This is how it works here. That doesn't mean that we excuse test scores that we don't think are good enough. It means that we need to try to understand what we should expect. What's a reasonable expectation? And it won't be the same for the entire school community. We might have different expectations for different kids at different places in their educational lives, and we need to learn. I've said this to some members of your school, do we need to learn to celebrate the right indicators of progress? Because if all you're waiting for is some arbitrarily set achievement level, and you don't learn to celebrate the steps along the way, you may never have the fun that you're looking forward to of celebrating that thing. Right? You have to learn what are our realistic expectations, and then how do we track growth toward those and beyond those expectations, you'll just never be satisfied otherwise.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And teachers work too hard and kids work too hard. And sometimes parents work too hard to wait years to be told, good job you did something. We need to

[R17300-66] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: way, you may never have the fun that you're looking forward to of celebrating that thing. Right? You have to learn what are our realistic expectations, and then how do we track growth toward those and beyond those expectations, you'll just never be satisfied otherwise.
TEXT> And teachers work too hard and kids work too hard. And sometimes parents work too hard to wait years to be told, good job you did something. We need to know when they're on the right track so we can celebrate being on the right track so they can get some positive feedback. Otherwise, you never get to that place that you're trying to be.
NEXT> Unidentified audience member — addressed as "Doctor": I said it was an essay question. I'll think I'll give you an A minus. That was.

[R17300-70] Unidentified audience member — back of the room | Audience questioner recognized by the chair as "There's one in the bac | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes. There's one in the back. Yes. Oh, please.
TEXT> So taking the caveat that you gave that you are  a figure within a larger system and aren't single handedly affecting the students. A super ten still does wheels. Significant hard and soft power. With what you have read about Claremont experience today with our schools. Is there a particular level  or avenue of change that you are already being like? This could nudge them towards some better outcomes floated in your head?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I've tried really hard not to make assumptions and think too far ahead. I think the building we're sitting in has a tremendous amount of potential. I, I am not

[R17300-78] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: aloud in one of my interviews, do you think we could just have one superintendent instead of three? And it was all I could do just to not laugh out loud. Right. Of course. I think you could have just one superintendent instead of three.
TEXT> I have 1300 kids. This isn't even a very big school system. And you have three schools. This is eminently reasonable. It took two years to write to work with. Because I don't just do this. I don't just do anything right. Everything that I sit here and talk about doing has to be done with stakeholders, with administrators, with teachers, with parents, with school board members. So it took two years for those two school boards to enter into what they called the Shared Services Memorandum of Agreement, which they signed in 2021 or 22. And then it has taken another five years. Really, most of the work was done in the first three to implement that agreement. And there is now one superintendent, one assistant superintendent, one director of special education. All of these all of these combinations have taken place. There is less money being spent on central office salaries. That means more money available to be spent in classrooms, on kids and teachers and support staff who serve kids.  So one of the pieces of that was an assistant superintendent for curriculum, instruction and assessment. We hired him three years ago last year, his second year on the job.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We saw growth in our school that was farthest behind in student achievement. We saw growth above the state average level. This goes to learning to celebrate the right indicators

[R17300-104] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Unidentified audience member — central-office staffing question: No, no. I just wanted. To elaborate.
TEXT> But. But a child who qualifies under idea for special ed services at the appropriate ages would have to be accommodated in my mind. Right. That student is eligible.  Right. I believe there needs to be some  number of non-disabled peers in an effective preschool program. And then what that number is, is something we'd have to work out together and talk to the school.
NEXT> Unidentified audience member — central-office staffing question: You've done exactly what I was asking you to do. And my second question has to do with staffing. We have a severe shortage of staffing. And I'm going to

[R17300-127] David (surname not stated) | Audience participant recognized by the chair three times as "David" (2 | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh. Oh yes.
TEXT> Started to answer the question. I do like, A lot of your answers about the school choice and making us more available and actually competitive, but, it's going to take some by in. So I'm talking as a former teacher kind of still and teacher at this point. They're not going to let quit. So but, are you going to be available to staff, the teachers that you're basically the grassroots, the people who produce your product, the students? I think that gets forgotten that your teachers are the ones who produce the product, available for the teachers. But also, are you going to be able to get into classrooms and see what the teachers are doing and talk to the teachers and the students and help build that thing that's going to start turning this place around.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I met with a group of teachers this afternoon and told them that I'd like to be invited in to do things. I'd rather go to a class and

[R17300-128] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> David (surname not stated): product, available for the teachers. But also, are you going to be able to get into classrooms and see what the teachers are doing and talk to the teachers and the students and help build that thing that's going to start turning this place around.
TEXT> So I met with a group of teachers this afternoon and told them that I'd like to be invited in to do things. I'd rather go to a class and read to a third grade classroom from a book, or go to a high school history class and talk about government or something like that. Then just be a guy in a blazer who walks through the back of the room for ten minutes once every week or two and thinks, now I've done my duty by showing up in the school. So to me that that's not that meaningful, but having an experience with the teacher and the students in a room at whatever grade level, doing whatever that's meaningful to me. And I would put that ball largely in the teachers court and ask to be invited him. But I would like that. Beyond that, I think and I've said this to some members of your school board, that because of what Claremont has just been through, I think it's important to be out in the public just kind of talking to people generally.  So again, something that I'm not doing a lot right now where I'm working at the moment because of where we are in the progression of that system and that organization.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: But here, I think, well, I do go to a lot of like sporting events and things like that because I like to I think that's, you know, we don't

[R17307-177] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-04-09
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: expect it to be. That's kind of it in a nutshell. So, I mean, with that, you know, maybe at a, at a high level, we could get some of the, the key points discussed that might be of consideration. From the I don't know.
TEXT> I want to do some introductions if you're okay. Just so we did bring Jason Bonneville, who? Our director of informational services and instructional technology. And then Paige Jarvis is here is our director of student services. So I know people have heard names and things like that. Chelsea Weatherford I know that everybody pretty much knows her already. So she was unable to make it tonight, but just to put faces in names. And so we can a little bit briefly just go over some things that we anticipate some  places. I know Jason spent probably the bulk of the time really getting ready for that separation piece, and I think that's where I think the biggest obstacle will have is, you know, the technical part of it, too. So if you want, I can have Jason just give a brief overview or you want to wait till later. It's up to you, Mr. Chair.
NEXT> Rocco Ruggeri: I think now is a good time. But like I said, the the remaining of the. Except for the very last one, which would be our update to the board,

[R17307-213] Jason Bonneville | Director of Informational Services and Instructional Technology, SAU 6 | 2026-04-09
PREV> Jason Bonneville: available. But like I said, the the lift for unity on my plate right now is not that severe. The, the lift of getting you guys separating, getting everything that's going to be huge. Like I said, I can walk to my office and disconnect.
TEXT> You and your phones and internet are out, like you're physically wired to us. So, there's going to be a lot of bits and pieces that happen there for sure. So. Fortunately, you guys have kept up on hardware. So your Chromebooks, you guys by Chromebooks, every year you get a batch and you just flush out the oldest ones first, and you always put in some new ones so your fleet is in good shape. I think that Su does a really good job in regards to making sure that kids are responsible with the hardware, so we really I'd have to go back and look. But I think in a year's time we maybe get five broken Chromebooks a year. Maybe, they're very, very good about taking care of the stuff.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Does I understand? I mean, they like, get what's going on or can they partner could they.

[R17307-244] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-04-09
PREV> Unidentified: They have all their own access stuff. Vanessa's okay.
TEXT> So that's the student, special ed student services, you know, information. So if anybody doesn't know. So anything that's in there should just be able to tailor it over. So that should be a little bit cleaner.  And it's just a matter of. And the great thing is, again, somebody on your board is even more familiar with it to, just making sure any files, like little file folders, things like that, we know in our basement or attic, there's a few other places, anything that has unity on it. We've talked about like we talked a little bit last night about the archival part of it. There could be things there that we would make sure in our parts that it may not be right away. So just full disclosure, because there's, a large scale of files, and then think that anybody right now is sitting there every Saturday going through and pulling out, I know there's some things. It's a good news is last several years it's been electronic. So that's a lot easier. Jason's been sequestering things and so that's a lot easier to separate. But anything physically you know we would do our part to make sure, you know, here's a box. Here's something I know. There's a question that the internet is like, can we send students over to just, you know, volunteer their time?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I would not recommend that right now because a, its first of all, it's, like protected information. Students and parents, you know, adults, I should say things like that. But

[R17307-245] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-04-09
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: easier to separate. But anything physically you know we would do our part to make sure, you know, here's a box. Here's something I know. There's a question that the internet is like, can we send students over to just, you know, volunteer their time?
TEXT> I would not recommend that right now because a, its first of all, it's, like protected information. Students and parents, you know, adults, I should say things like that. But just cleaning it out and organizing, you would really need to make sure somebody is overseeing that. And just it's it's more than just the the work part of it things too. So just to continue to work on that separation, part of that. So that might happen after July 1st just as a foreshadowing. So but we promise to give you anything that's yours back a things to.
NEXT> Rocco Ruggeri: Okay.

[R17307-260] Rocco Ruggeri | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity-side SAU 6 Board Member | 2026-04-09
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: implement. So it's been a trial by error and some things that, you know, come easy to others that could have, should have been addressed are now being discussed. So one way or another we will work through it. We have no choice but two.
TEXT> And that's where we're at. So I  expect we have we're scheduling a meeting like a meet and greet, with the it's all tentative right now, but for our superintendent of 109 forest. Mr. Ransdell, we're scheduling a meet and greet next week with the staff. And then in the evening, for the public. And then after that, he'll formally be in place to move forward and, you know, start executing, hiring folks, be a IT services, special education, student director services,  all the missing pieces that, you know, the Unity board just doesn't have answers to right now, kind of leaning on those superintendent services to fill in those gaps. So timing is everything. And I'm confident that, as we get the right people involved in the conversations, we'll make a little more progress here.  So just yeah, that's kind of the update there for for unity.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I may just interject for a second. Mr. Ransdell has been fabulous just working with me. He was one of the first superintendents in Hampshire that reached out to me.

[R17307-266] Rocco Ruggeri | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity-side SAU 6 Board Member | 2026-04-09
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So  we talked about  technology, student services, financial data management, human resources, a lot of that to be worked out over the next few weeks here. That's it. That brings us toward the end of our agenda for the day, any other business to be discussed? No. All right. We've got some future dates there. Claremont school board meetings. And we do have a tentative saw six meeting for May 14th.  I'd like to leave that on the calendar.  I'd also like to just confirm the time. 6 or 630.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I'll go with six.

[R17323-2] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides; also on the Finance and SRVRTC subcommit | 2026-04-15
PREV> Multiple: To the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
TEXT> I was going to start out tonight by  announcing our welcoming Miles Sahin as the student ambassador, but I just found out that they won't be joining us tonight. They only come once a month, and tonight isn't the night that they come. So we'll wait until May to introduce him. We do have a special recognition for the, tech center students, and I don't I don't know whether they're all. I don't think they're all here yet, so I'm going to put that off. You want to check and see if.
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: Do you want me to do it? Yeah.

[R17323-11] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides; also on the Finance and SRVRTC subcommit | 2026-04-15
PREV> Michelle Herrington: Do you want to do Ellie first? I do, okay. Ellie, come on up.
TEXT> And, you know,  we recently had a a visioning committee subcommittee meeting, and we learned about these folks in the meeting. And I think that it's important for all of our  people watching on TV and for proud parents in the audience to recognize these students as really achieving a really some great accomplishments. And,  you know, we recognize sports teams. We also want to recognize academic achievement and  and doing well in school. So I'd like to start out by  reading this about Ellie. And Ellie has the striped shirt on. So. Yay. Okay, this  this is Ellie. Gerard has achieved something truly rare by being nominated for the U.S. Presidential Scholars Program. Nominated by director Michelle Harrington. Ellie was chosen as one of only five students to represent the state of New Hampshire, being the only person from her school to be picked shows just how much she stands out as a leader and a hard worker. This is a prestigious presidential award. It is considered one of the highest honors a high school student can achieve. Moving to the next round is a huge deal, as she is now part of an elite group of only 60 students in the entire country being considered for this CT national recognition by making this by making it this far.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Ellie has proven that her work at sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center and Stevens High School is among the best in the nation. She has shown she is a

[R17323-20] Michelle Herrington | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2026-04-15
PREV> Michelle Herrington: it my own. In the summertime, my goal was to really kind of focus on the student ambassadors. And as we know, the school year kind of changed. So I wanted to pilot it this year and just do level twos as the student ambassadors.
TEXT> And,  it was really tricky to figure out who to pick in such a short period of time.  So I talked to the teachers. They're all level twos, except for Justin. He's a level one, but we kind of consider him as a level two because he steps up all the time.  So I talked to the teachers and really said, hey, who's a leader who has been in the intro classes, who's been in the summer camps, you know, since eighth grade? Who would be a leader in your program that you look to to go go to,  and these, you know, these students were picked,  from their teachers, but before I put them kind of on my team, I really wanted to touch base with them.  I had two big criterias I was looking for.  Anything that I do, I do with passion. And I wanted to see that with them.  I, you know, I not that I don't care about behavior or attendance.  But when you're passionate about something they come to, they come to class, they come there.  And then there's no behaviors.  So this was something that I was really looking for. Is that passion. When I talk to them, do they light up when they talk about their program?
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Can I look to them as a leader and pretty much respect and trust? I need to trust them when they're when I ask them to go do something at

[R17323-21] Michelle Herrington | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2026-04-15
PREV> Michelle Herrington: about something they come to, they come to class, they come there. And then there's no behaviors. So this was something that I was really looking for. Is that passion. When I talk to them, do they light up when they talk about their program?
TEXT> Can I look to them as a leader and pretty much respect and trust? I need to trust them when they're when I ask them to go do something at the tech center, because I'm not going to be with them at all times. When I say, hey, go down the hall and grab something, I need to know when they're interrupting a class, that they're going to go in and do it the right way. And respect. As you can see, they all have these jackets on  and they have earned these jackets. It's not day one that they get these jackets and they're just part of the team.  Because at all times they're representing the tech center. They're representing Claremont and Stevens High School.  So we I really needed to trust and know that they're going to be respected in, in town when they're wearing these, you know. So that's kind of how I picked the student ambassadors. Now, I have all these ideas for next year to figure it out.  Do I do a level one and a level two? Because then if you're in level one and you move on, then you could be a leader, and then you're not interrupting the program, because right now they're all going to leave. And then I'm gonna have to start from square one again.  So there's a lot of questions of what what's going to happen.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So would you introduce each one of them and, and tell us your area of, of interest?

[R17323-23] Michelle Herrington | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: So would you introduce each one of them and, and tell us your area of, of interest?
TEXT> Yes.  So this is Justin McGuire. He's in the entrepreneurship class. We have Cody Button. He is in the plumbing and heating, HVAC. We have Kylie Plummer, who's in culinary. We have Kiara Seminole in medical assisting and Alex Wiley in building construction. All right. So but these two, because it is student led, I just have two people that are going to talk because I can tell you how wonderful it is all day, but hearing it from them means more. So I'm going to step aside. Great.
NEXT> Justin McGuire: I'm Justin McGuire.

