[R9507-23] Jesse Burrill | Student, junior at Stevens High School, student voice and communicatio | 2017-12-20
PREV> Brian Rapp: Students?
TEXT> Well. Good evening. I'm Jesse Burrell. A junior at Stevens High School. And I'd like to start off by extending an invitation, since budget discussions affect programs within our schools. I would like to invite members of this board to accompany myself and a couple of other students through a day of classes at Stevens for a diverse view of the normal school day. You would follow AP  Honors and non honors students to their classes for a day. Will present more on the logistics of this  after break. Should you accept our invitation to accompany us to classes for a day? I would also like to invite the members of the board to attend the Advanced Theater class at Stevens production of The Miracle Worker. We'll be holding two preview performances for teachers, board members, and administrators on January 16th and 17th. It'll be at 7 p.m. at Stevens High School, and it will be free of charge for those members. Anyone who has questions or is well are welcome to approach me or Miss Larissa Cahill. And more information will also be presented in the future.  With me today, you see the student voice and communications team of Stevens High School.
NEXT> Jesse Burrill: Over the past couple of months, we have met weekly to focus on public service announcements for various school groups and programs that are offered at Stevens. But we have

[R9507-26] Prescott Herzog | Student, Stevens High School student voice team (introduced 'I would l | 2017-12-20
PREV> Prescott Herzog: be the English department. Surprisingly, both the English and the social studies department are part of the top three that are our highest failure rates. And in part as a part of my class, the freshman class, 60% of our students are below reading level.
TEXT> This is quite a surprise to me that the board would want to cut in an English department teaching position then, because,  I mean, if it's 60% of just ninth graders that are having below reading, we should in fact be doing more instead. And with the curriculum specialists, she's done quite a lot of work already in her one year. We've actually seen a 1,260% increase in ellos, which are the rich learning opportunities for a couple of students have presented to you before. And so she's been doing math tutoring and is a part of helping with the student voice program. And Betsy Brandon, to talk a little bit more about the social worker.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: And hello, Lexi Grenier, you all know me. But I'm here to talk about the crisis counselor and the social worker position. So just a few statistics that we researched.

[R9507-27] Lexi Grenier | Student, senior at Stevens High School, student voice team (self-intro | 2017-12-20
PREV> Prescott Herzog: the rich learning opportunities for a couple of students have presented to you before. And so she's been doing math tutoring and is a part of helping with the student voice program. And Betsy Brandon, to talk a little bit more about the social worker.
TEXT> And hello, Lexi Grenier, you all know me. But I'm here to talk about the crisis counselor and the social worker position. So just a few statistics that we researched. As Jesse said, suicide is the third leading cause of death in the country.  That is next to car crashes and other incidents.  1 in 5 teens have depression and or anxiety disorders. 90% of teens that commit suicide are diagnosed with mental illnesses such as anxiety, depression, etc.  almost $1 billion is spent on funeral and medical bills in the entire country. Different states. One tenth of students drop out of high school because of unaided medical mental illnesses, due to no crisis counselors being within house, meaning no crisis counselors within their school. 62% of teens with depression and or bipolar disorders do not have professional help. They are not offered that. And that is a national statistic. Without our crisis counselors at Stevens,  a lot of these teens that are struggling through these crises, they will not be able to have the connections to the sources that they do.  Another big thing is that without the crisis counselors, a lot of these preventive services, such as sexual services, etc., like some of our other statistics that we found with Sullivan County, has the highest teen pregnancy rate in New Hampshire, which that was very daunting and very upsetting.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: And just a few numbers out there, $9,700, is how much it costs to have a child in a hospital so that upon a teen parent is a huge thing.

[R9507-28] Lexi Grenier | Student, senior at Stevens High School, student voice team (self-intro | 2017-12-20
PREV> Lexi Grenier: that without the crisis counselors, a lot of these preventive services, such as sexual services, etc., like some of our other statistics that we found with Sullivan County, has the highest teen pregnancy rate in New Hampshire, which that was very daunting and very upsetting.
TEXT> And just a few numbers out there, $9,700, is how much it costs to have a child in a hospital so  that upon a teen parent is a huge thing. $233,000 is the cost without college over over a span of 17 to 18 years. In order to raise that child. So without the crisis counselors, the teens may or may not be involved within these sources or within the services that help them prevent this teenage pregnancy, that help them prevent having to go through the costs that I just said. On top of all that, we have three homeless shelters in Claremont that crisis counselors and the social worker at CMS get in touch with that. They help out with, Claremont has a higher per capita poverty rate than Manchester, New Hampshire, which many people find that extremely daunting because it shouldn't be that way.  10% of people in the district do not have access to a computer or internet at home, meaning that a lot of students at Stevens do not have the access to internet.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: That means they do not have the access to the Virtual Learning Academy Charter v lax that we use at the high school. A lot of them could not find

[R9507-29] Lexi Grenier | Student, senior at Stevens High School, student voice team (self-intro | 2017-12-20
PREV> Lexi Grenier: which many people find that extremely daunting because it shouldn't be that way. 10% of people in the district do not have access to a computer or internet at home, meaning that a lot of students at Stevens do not have the access to internet.
TEXT> That means they do not have the access to the Virtual Learning Academy Charter v lax that we use at the high school.  A lot of them could not find the certain information that they need in order to be preventative.  So without our crisis counselors, without our social worker, without our academic academia,  and without our teachers, we would not be able to excel the way that we need to be in order to achieve what we need to achieve. Our dreams are.  Another thing I want to add in is that cycling through teachers is often extremely detrimental to any student during any point in time of their high school career, because you get used to one thing, and then all of a sudden the next year it changes. And that's very hard to wrap your brain around. So these are our reasons why we feel that there should be no budget cuts. And this is our proposal to you  as the student voice. All right.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you very much.

[R9507-51] Jesse Burrill | Student, junior at Stevens High School, student voice and communicatio | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> As well. In terms of the cycling out of administrators this this year, and my years at Stevens are actually the first time that I can remember having the same vice principals for my entire tenure there for about three years. I remember being in middle school, and it would change about every year, and that would be very jarring to me. Like, you get to know these people and it's a little bit more of a comfortable setting. You know, you see them every day. They smile that you getting off the bus. Have a nice day, you know, stuff like that. And just the change of that can be very jarring for some students as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: This is the first.

[R9507-70] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda, calls votes and breaks  | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you guys. Good.
TEXT> Any other students for citizens comments? Anybody else for citizens comments?
NEXT> Matt Bean: My name is Matt Bean. I'm in Ward two. First things first, I would like to thank everyone of the board for allowing people to voice their comments in their

[R9507-71] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 2, district special education para and football | 2017-12-20
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other students for citizens comments? Anybody else for citizens comments?
TEXT> My name is Matt Bean. I'm in Ward two. First things first, I would like to thank everyone of the board for allowing people to voice their comments in their opinions. And I appreciate you all volunteering your time to be on the school board. I work in the district as a special ed para as well as a football coach, and I want to bring some things to your attention. First, every single person that would lose their job because of the one $1.3 million budget cut affects this community in a negative way. More people struggling. More people hurting. Not good for anyone. Every single position that gets cut is a resource to our great students, and is a way is a person that's taking your taking away from helping them. And that's not good either. Take the crisis counselor, for example, which Lexi already touched on. I can tell you from experience that that job saves lives point blank. It saves lives. Each of the counseling positions have very specific training. So that means that one size does not fit all. The crisis counselor, the school counselor, the social worker,  they're all different. They have different training.
NEXT> Matt Bean: The city manager said last week or last meeting that a school budget cut would not make a significant difference when it comes to the taxes in Claremont. In fact,

[R9507-76] Gary Collison | Stevens High School World Languages team leader, speaking in citizens' | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: This is.
TEXT> In about 20 point font, so you don't have to worry just so I could read it. My failing eyesight. I'm not a citizen of Claremont. I'm an employee. Of the. Okay. My name is Gary Collison. I probably should be in a mental ward after the past few weeks. But anyway. Thank you very much for this opportunity. I speak to you tonight for several reasons. First, I feel I must express my deep disappointment with the budget proposal you've been asked to consider. It hurts beyond my ability to communicate that after nearly 18 years of dedicated and effective service to Stevens High School and its students, I've been designated as expendable. It may be easier to look at spreadsheets with their numbers in parentheses, but these symbols represent faithful employees, real human beings, and I wanted to speak for them and put a face to otherwise dry and lifeless figures on a page. Second, as team leader, I wish to emphasize the important work done by the World Languages Department. Our impact reaches far beyond vocabulary lists and dictation exercises.
NEXT> Gary Collison: We help students see the world from new perspectives and gain a deeper appreciation for their responsibilities as global citizens. We teach them to think critically, to compare and contrast,

[R9507-97] Joyce Heinsberg | Public commenter, Ward 2, former district substitute coordinator of 23 | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> Okay.  And is that only used? Because I understand and you can correct me, but sometimes teachers prefer their pairs, which makes sense because the pairs know the students.  I know there was a sub that went in for the teacher, and the pair said, the teacher wants me to do  the class.  And so she ended up doing the position. So I don't know if that's just a preference or if that's a necessity, you know, to save some money.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Well, I mean, I think that that right now we're just trying to save some money by in getting more subs. That's that's the idea. I know that obviously there's

[R9507-102] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: Sprague 'So, C | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michael O'Neill: What's.
TEXT> The biggest thing is when you're pulling a para to to do that subbing, you're actually pulling that student  from a special education student. And that's what their primary function is.
NEXT> Joyce Heinsberg: Yeah. And I understand that. That's why I'd like to think it's a necessity and not a preference. And I guess my one of my final thoughts is, I think

[R9507-109] Tom Rock | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-introduced 'Tom Ward two' [169]; superi | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So due to the lower valuations of the city, I rate gets exaggerated when we talk about the rate by itself. When we talk about the rate, we need to also say we have one of the lowest valuations in the state. That is why the rate is high. So we can't make decisions based on the rate. Examples. Centipede has multi-million dollar houses on the lake. They don't have any kids going to the school. They get a benefit from that because they pay the school taxes, even though they don't send any kids there lowers everybody else's tax. Lebanon  is another example. It has a lot of commercial stuff. Their tax rate is $28 and cents compared to  our tax rate of 42. And the change, they pay $900 more on average for taxes on a average house. So even with all of that commercial stuff, they pay more taxes. So we need to emphasize valuation and rate, because people from the outside say, oh, Claremont, you can't go there because their taxes are too high. Well, our taxes aren't out of whack when you consider the rest of the bill.
NEXT> Tom Rock: So we need to look at that when we're talking about things like this. So beyond that, I think the administration put up this chart over the last five years,

[R9507-142] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 ('So Corey just intimated' [833] after | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: That letters in your packet.
TEXT> For the purchase of books for children's teens and adults who participate in the program with the one for all space. So three grants this evening evening totaling of $2,000, two from ExxonMobil and one from the Frank Frank M Barnard Foundation.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Just a.

[R9507-147] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (asked 'At Disney. Melissa, do yo | 2017-12-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: At Disney. Melissa, do you want to speak to what that is going to directly? Good evening.
TEXT> Disney has had the privilege. Of receiving this grant. Actually, I believe this is our third year. The parameters of the grant is that it has to be funneled to math and science efforts. So last year, for example, we used the grant to to fund part of our outdoor classroom that we began with this year. We have several teachers who would like to continue that effort knowing that we have received the grant this year. So we're looking to grow kind of those different opportunities for students in the area of science.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think a similar purpose at the high school. And it will go to the science department. Correct. Okay.

[R9507-187] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member ('your suggestion, Frank' [637] after [6 | 2017-12-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, sure.
TEXT> That I think it was. It  was 3000 and something. And looking at the answer, it says, what does this cover city fees for students. So I'm wondering what that is because doesn't the state pay for the school day city. So what are their SAT. And then the SAT College Board will give fee waiver for those who can't afford to take the test.. With the.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Part of that was the essay. We pay for the essay question, the essay portion.

[R9507-221] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michael O'Neill: You're saying? I don't I don't think we really use any counselor. We haven't spent any money on counselor juice and fees, so we don't want that at the.
TEXT> Do you feel like you're being grilled, Mike? I'm ready. Okay. Another question was bus drivers. What qualifies them as full time and what are their duties when they are not transporting children? And I think the thought behind that was just taking a look into I can't remember whose question this was either, but.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think it was mine.

[R9507-230] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: Sounds great. Thank you.
TEXT> Another question was, are all Sped pairs being utilized with their Sped student in regard to their IEPs? So it's Medicaid Medicaid reimbursement. I know the answer to that. But go ahead.
NEXT> Chris: To the maximum extent. Yes, absolutely. The problem again becomes as when parents get pulled to do subbing, then you're actually pulling a student from. So you're essentially going into

[R9507-231] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: Sprague 'So, C | 2017-12-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Another question was, are all Sped pairs being utilized with their Sped student in regard to their IEPs? So it's Medicaid Medicaid reimbursement. I know the answer to that. But go ahead.
TEXT> To the maximum extent. Yes, absolutely. The problem again becomes as when parents get pulled to do subbing, then you're actually pulling  a student from. So you're essentially going into noncompliance.  So that happens a lot, which is one of the reasons why we sort of moved to the the sub strategy that we're using. The other issue that comes up to the whole school, Medicaid, it it's always a work in progress, because it's very difficult for Paris to find the time to be able to sit down and log things into MSP because they run from the time they come in in the morning until  until 3:00. So, our Medicaid program is very successful and we have been capturing more and more dollars doing that. Our, our Medicaid person is Susan Duty, and she is out there working with every building, every whenever they need it. She's there to help them. So to get things logged in. So yes.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: You're asked me a time or two for my medication.

[R9507-271] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: Sprague 'So, C | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> Part of one of trying to understand, I think what I'm understanding you're saying, part of what happens when a, when a paragon is pulled to do the subbing, you're pulling that power directly from  student who has a a pair of tied to their IEP. So in essence you're not able to bill for  that time with those students because you have you have pulled that part to do other, other duties in the building.
NEXT> Unidentified: Which is illegal.

[R9507-315] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah.
TEXT> The next question was how many Sped pairs are there and how many students have a Sped parent incorporated into their IEP?
NEXT> Chris: There are approximately 98 special ed powers. In all of them are incorporated into their IEPs. There are other Paris who aren't paid out of 1200. Is about what? Ten

[R9507-317] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Chris: There are approximately 98 special ed powers. In all of them are incorporated into their IEPs. There are other Paris who aren't paid out of 1200. Is about what? Ten of them? 11. There are 1100, what we call 1100 pairs. Seven.
TEXT> And what's the overall caseload for especially kids? Per like for the whole district? So we have 98 Sped pairs. How many special kids.
NEXT> Chris: Are there? It's like 20 right? It's been fluctuating. We've been historically we've been at 25%. We dipped to 22. We're back up. We're about 24% now, maybe 23 somewhere,

[R9507-322] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 ('So Corey just intimated' [833] after | 2017-12-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to make.
TEXT> That clear. 432 identified students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Is there because you have any more on that question?

[R9507-370] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michael O'Neill: we try to allow entities to come in and use the school buildings, and we charge rent. But by the time we pay the custodial staff and do the sanding, consulting and shoveling it, it's really not a lot of money to be made their.
TEXT> The next one. What is the current status on keeping out of district students in housing, buildings, etc.?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, if I may, Brian. This afternoon we we had a discussion that dealt with our challenges, some of these challenges. We talked to you before, serious behavioral issues, and

[R9507-372] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 ('If I may, Brian' [280, 505, 517, 776]; refers  | 2017-12-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: But one of the challenges is a building that looks absolutely accommodating. All right, but does have certain building codes because it would now be a school. And the retrofitting to have it be on the code has been up to a half $1 million.
TEXT> So there's some of our challenges. It's not just finding a building that's and in good shape. It's retrofitting it to be up to code for a school. But we are we are in the process of we we are at fact, in the past three and a half years, we've never stopped the process, Rebecca, of looking for alternative settings where we can reduce children leaving and have our own programs on site.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Michelle, how many students do we have going out of district?

[R9507-373] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [471, 879]; 'Anyt | 2017-12-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: we are we are in the process of we we are at fact, in the past three and a half years, we've never stopped the process, Rebecca, of looking for alternative settings where we can reduce children leaving and have our own programs on site.
TEXT> Michelle, how many students do we have going out of district?
NEXT> Chris: We currently have? I don't have the list right in front of me. About 20, I would say. 20 210 20.

[R9507-384] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: Sprague 'So, C | 2017-12-20
PREV> Chris: just need a space. This is what exactly what we talked about this afternoon is and and having that kind of space, if we're going to do it, if we're going to have Brattleboro to do it, it's a it is a much bigger conversation.
TEXT> This is a community. This is a community issue.  This is a this is one we want. To  agree. Absolutely. But, you know, we're always no matter what we do, we're always going to have a band of kids that we can't meet their needs. Even if we have a program here, they have such significant needs, we're not going to be able they may be really medically fragile that they have to be somewhere. They may have, Anytime you want. Michelle, I'll redact some psych reports. And you can. You can. I understand we have some significant issues.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just want to. What's the cost per child?

[R9507-385] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [471, 879]; 'Anyt | 2017-12-20
PREV> Chris: such significant needs, we're not going to be able they may be really medically fragile that they have to be somewhere. They may have, Anytime you want. Michelle, I'll redact some psych reports. And you can. You can. I understand we have some significant issues.
TEXT> I just want to. What's the cost per child?
NEXT> Chris: Depends on the. Yeah, depends on the school. It really depends if, Well, most of our high school kids who are out of district, they go to, Granite Hill in

[R9507-386] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: Sprague 'So, C | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I just want to. What's the cost per child?
TEXT> Depends on the. Yeah, depends on the school. It really depends if, Well, most of our high school kids who are out of district, they go to, Granite Hill in Duport. We do a lot of, a lot of business with Granite Hill. Great school. You're looking somewhere $60,000. Somewhere in that neighborhood. 61. Yeah. If you move to and again, we have a great relationship with them. Transportation is very low. Anything beyond that, you're looking at transportation that's at least an hour for a day program. So and then have tuition plus transportation which which is a which is a significant cost.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So Brattleboro, Vermont Brattleboro Retreat, is between 87,000 and 116,000. So. Okay. And Spaulding, Northfield is 146,000.

[R9507-389] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [471, 879]; 'Anyt | 2017-12-20
PREV> Chris: Depending on the related services that you add to that speech ot, PT. Plus transportation.
TEXT> Now, is this is this per student correct? So if we could see Brattleboro Retreat in here sooner than later. That's 100. Anywhere from 87 to $116,000 a year per student that we could be looking at in savings, is that correct?
NEXT> Chris: Still going to cost us some money?

[R9507-520] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'We have Chris' [196], 'Chri | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks.
TEXT> I guess I'm going to I'm going to oversimplify the. Heck out of it, and I'm. Going to go back to kind of what I said from the beginning of this process. I really don't have an interest to get micromanaging this line by line, because one, we legally can't. I mean, and my opinion is my prediction is this list of potential cuts. A I don't think would hope they wouldn't have proposed the the compromise, if you will, if they didn't believe they could do it, which is fine.  But this could all change by March, and they could have a whole different set of plans and a whole different set of circumstances and a whole different set of finances by the time we get to March. So my intent was never is never to pretend to tell them what to do and how to run a school system. I've said it before, my job. I don't believe my job is to educate kids. My job is to hire good people to do it, and give them a budget to do it with. I believe that in my heart, more than ever in this crisis that we're in. Having said that, if you look at what Mike gave us from 2013 to 2016, the fund balance that's been returned was $2.3 million. In four years, we've returned $2.3 million effective tax rate, about $3. My point to that is, is it good budgeting?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yeah.

[R9507-583] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [471, 879]; 'Anyt | 2017-12-20
PREV> Brian Rapp: you know, it's not the the million dollars that they said that they would like to spend. Right. If there's 300,000, if there's if there's some money there, I'd like to see them put the money in technology. I'd like to give them that opportunity.
TEXT> So if we have too many teachers, honestly, for the amount of students at Stevens, for the English department, is that what I understood?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's that's someone's opinion.

[R9507-632] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Mike, what do you got?' [76 | 2017-12-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: That's true.
TEXT> I just hope we're we're making sure that the things that. Can't should be cut are these pieces that are not in the fact that students.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's great.

[R9507-638] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'We have Chris' [196], 'Chri | 2017-12-20
PREV> Chris Irish: ones proposing any of these cuts or anything. It's them because that's what they're supposed to do for whatever reason. It is good. I don't want to hold their feet to that fire. I want to say my job is to give you a budget.
TEXT> Here's your budget.  You guys do what you do, and it happens every year. They come back to us and they  they do what they do all year long. We're not part of that. We're not micromanaging it. I don't want to micromanage. We shouldn't. I'm not qualified to micromanage. So for me, I, I believe in my heart of hearts. We can get that. 328 give them a budget and they will be able to work within it without hurting any child. And you know, last year we were told the same thing we can't do this. It's not sustainable. But throughout the year we still increased programs, we added programs, we added staff. They were able to do it because they're good at what they do. I'm counting on them being good at what they do again.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Michelle. Then Rebecca.

[R9507-646] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Brian Rapp: Rebecca.
TEXT> Just to speak to like, I keep hearing we're going to affect children. And just to speak a little bit about what Mike was mentioning. And I have kids here to everybody knows that. I talk about it all the time. Sometimes it's a nightmare, sometimes it's not. But just to just to give an example of what I think people get nervous about and worry about, but really, it's not as bad as it sounds. The school psychologist, that's 106,000, right? I think people think that the school psychologist delivers direct instruction and kids are hanging out with them, but they really just come in to do evaluations and present at the meetings for the most part. Right?
NEXT> Chris: I sit on school based assistance teams.

[R9507-650] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: Isn't that the 55 that's below their contract?
TEXT> It is. But that's what I'm saying. Like I think people freak out seeing school psychologists going to be cut, but really, we could save their kids. It's contracted and they could come in and do evaluations, and they could come in and present their evaluations, and they could come in and do the meetings, and it would still be cost effective and quite a savings to the district. So I.
NEXT> Unidentified: Think.

[R9507-663] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [284, 885]; O'Neil | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: It will.
TEXT> But not as much as people would think that it would. Like you think about a school psychologist in treating kids directly. You know what I mean? That's what I think. So I just.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: How many school psychologists do we have?

[R9507-785] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Mike, what do you got?' [76 | 2017-12-20
PREV> Brian Rapp: Mike, do you have.
TEXT> I feel like we came into this, and we have that meeting in September. He came up with the number of 1.2 million. And I'll be honest to say that seeing the numbers that you've come up with. I don't think we can get there, and I don't, I, I think it was a bigger task  than I pictured. It was, it was, it would be detrimental.  In seeing that now, I can say that publicly. So, To me, I think there are a lot of areas that can be cut. We see some numbers here that can be cut without affecting the students. I'm more. I'm leaning more towards the love of fund. From last year.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R9547-4] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-introduced, ASR 'Middleton Goodwin' [9]; a | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: million below the current fiscal year. And then that were our marching orders are directives. There was quite a bit of give and take because I was concerned about that. I was hired. David Putnam and others in this audience were part of that process.
TEXT> I was hired, and I was asked several questions during the interview process. And  I think some of the things the my interview was heard was that I wasn't going to be someone who would just sort of be a bobble head at that. If I felt something had to be said, I would say it. That's not disrespectful. That's not. Being insubordinate is being basically what I consider to be a leader, saying and doing what you think you need to do, even if others won't. And so I express myself. And then, realizing the board was firm,  we proceeded. So I share that with you because I have no disrespect for the board. They have a legal responsibility, budget and policy, but I believe I have a professional responsibility to say, could you would you reconsider? So here we are tonight. And when you think about the budget, and most of us in this auditorium have been in  school for several years, some of us private school, some of his public. But the public schools today  are are needing to prepare children very differently than 30 or 40 years ago. In fact, many of the jobs that exist today are no longer  were in existence years ago, but in fact  are not available today.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Automation and other low skilled jobs have basically been eliminated. And so yesterday a basic education was sufficient. Today it's not. It's not. And if you look at this diagram

[R9547-5] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-introduced, ASR 'Middleton Goodwin' [9]; a | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: his public. But the public schools today are are needing to prepare children very differently than 30 or 40 years ago. In fact, many of the jobs that exist today are no longer were in existence years ago, but in fact are not available today.
TEXT> Automation and other low skilled jobs have basically been eliminated. And so yesterday a basic education was sufficient. Today it's not. It's not. And if you look at  this diagram in chart, look at the unemployment rate, the unemployment rate for those who have advanced degrees down to less than a high school education. And look at the median usual weekly earnings. You can see that a lack of skills handicaps a student and handicaps them as an adult. So the days of minimal education are now fading quickly. And in fact, a high school education generally is no longer sufficient to acquire a reasonable job. That additional skills and additional training is necessary, especially the ability to learn, unlearn, and relearn. So that's why today's public education is very different. 40 years ago, a young man and woman could graduate from high school, find a job, raise a family, buy a home. But many of those positions, as they said before,  have been eliminated and replaced by other positions that require more skills and technology. So our responsibility is to educate this year.  Over 1800 Claremont School District children.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And over the past 11 years, you can see there has been a decrease, but not to the point where you can see the budget being drastically reduced. Now, what

[R9547-7] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-introduced, ASR 'Middleton Goodwin' [9]; a | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I'd be very glad to send it to you. Adequacy aid. Adequacy aid was created to somewhat level the playing field in our state. Certain communities have a sufficient revenue that they can provide different opportunities to other communities that don't have that revenue can.
TEXT> So as a result,  adequacy adequacy A was created to somewhat level the playing field that a child's ZIP code shouldn't determine their academic opportunities. Adequacy adequacy aid is being slowly pared down. And if you look at the examples every year, there's going to be a further reduction across our state impacting municipalities as a state pulled back and eventually eliminating all adequacy aid those communities that have a reasonable revenue source. Some of our neighbors, they can absorb that communities that do not have great challenges with that. Here's an example a 1617 school year. The revenue changes. Notice when I talk about adequacy aid in fiscal year 16 and fiscal year 17, the drop was over $400,000. The impact on the tax rate was over half a dollar. So the homeowner is impacted not by the school district, but by the state who is passing down their former responsibility to the municipalities. Whether you're on city council, whether you're on school board.  Municipalities are feeling this impact. Now, there's one more trend that we hope is not going to be approved. And that Senate Bill 193, where school money, money design designed and intended for public schools will be dispersed to children attending charter schools or home schooled students or private school students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So a child who lives in Claremont, whose parents choose to send him or her to a private school, they would. If this bill is passed, they would have access

[R9547-18] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (self-introduced, 'Mike O'Neill, directo | 2018-01-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: in maintenance every year. So it's essentially going to not not cost us 39,000, but cost us close to the $9,000 to get the new busses. Then that's a six in impact per 1000, because that's an article that was not on in the past.
TEXT> The roofing improvements is something we've been doing. I believe this will be the fourth year re the tech center done a big project at Disney, big project at Maple. Now we need to do some work at the middle school. That would be this year 100,000. Again, no tax rate impact because we've raised it in the past. So there's no impact on taxes. So I know that three plus six does not equal two. But rounding does sometimes get you when you do that. So the net impact of the budget would be the $0.03 per thousand as discussed by doctor McGowan. Now if we could switch over to the estimated revenues tab. Thank you sir, which is on the back side of that piece of paper that we handed out. Essentially the only revenues that really changes was projecting an increase of $50,000 in tuition revenue. A few years ago, we voted to reduce the rate of tuition from 18,000 to 14 five. And we're actually getting more students. So we're getting more and more, more and more money by doing that. Thanks to unity, we're having a lot of unity students attend, so that's helping us with the tuition line. Then if you go down to be.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Two, you're going to see that the projected adequacy for the current year is 12 million 341 for 91. In B one, you'll see that the projected adequacy for next

[R9547-19] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (self-introduced, 'Mike O'Neill, directo | 2018-01-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: And we're actually getting more students. So we're getting more and more, more and more money by doing that. Thanks to unity, we're having a lot of unity students attend, so that's helping us with the tuition line. Then if you go down to be.
TEXT> Two, you're going to see that the projected adequacy for the current year is 12 million 341 for 91. In B one, you'll see that the projected adequacy for next year is 12 million 077963, a reduction of 263,000 528. And that's not being driven by less students. That's being driven by the reduction of the stabilization grant by the state, which is going to be 225,000 a year for 20 years. So overall revenues are projected to decrease by 213, 528, again, which was the number that Doctor Goodwin had up there. That is a 37 impact on the tax rate. Questions on that stuff.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Hey everybody. Jason Ben Ward one. So it's a pretty simple, I guess more of a statement than a question. So after all this work, as it stands right now,

[R9547-38] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-introduced, ASR 'Middleton Goodwin' [9]; a | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: done intentionally because of the needs of the children. A district wide school psychologist, a crisis counselor, Stevens High School, an assessment coordinator, $6,000. It's got a necessity. Children. Instead of taking SATs and other assessments at Stevens High School, will travel to other communities.
TEXT> A high school special education teacher. Because of this reduction,  as well as the other factors of adequacy aid and the collective bargaining agreement, we were going to hopefully only reduce one teaching position that's now moving toward three. Director of adult education. We're hoping to be able to, because of the budget reductions, be able to reassign that position to another administrator. It won't be the same for paraprofessional positions, reduction of textbooks, defer maintenance and repairs. You can save a lot of money by deferring maintenance. You can save a lot of dough. Sometimes you have no choice. But when Melissa Lewis, the principal of Disney on elementary school, needed a half a dozen buckets in her school when it rained, that's problematic. Assistant staff development. Professional development is one of the variables that attracted me to the Claremont School District. How the district invested in his teachers supported his teachers with the goal of improving instruction, assistant athletic director, athletic trainer and in the administrative assistant. That list represented about a half million dollars. But,  you know, the argument has been when we are looking to try to meet that reduction of $328,000 or meet that reduction of 1.2 million below this current fiscal year, we were looking at what's called saturation studies, the number of students versus the teacher.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And though 1st May say, well, you know, this is a class Stevens High School with living students and one teacher, but let's just eliminate that class. But when you

[R9547-39] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-introduced, ASR 'Middleton Goodwin' [9]; a | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: you know, the argument has been when we are looking to try to meet that reduction of $328,000 or meet that reduction of 1.2 million below this current fiscal year, we were looking at what's called saturation studies, the number of students versus the teacher.
TEXT> And though 1st May say, well, you know, this is a class Stevens High School with living students and one teacher, but let's just eliminate that class. But when you do that, there's a residual effect. You start eliminating classes and you start compromising the options of students. And so you have fewer options, and therefore you have students who may not be able to get into a class or have that opportunity to advance the way they would like, and they might even residual to the point where Advanced Placement classes have to be compromised as well. You don't see it. The busses come in the morning, they drop off kids and the busses drive them away at the end of the day and everything's looking fine. But believe me, with a budget, with a budget that has been flatlined, as I explained here, with a budget that has over time not been going out of control, and with the state saying Claremont and other municipalities, you know, I'm hearing and I, I very much respect Joe and other residents about senior citizens. But if you if you were to look and just review what we have been trying to do  in the past four years, how can the tax rate be going up when this budget is basically flat? So if the answer is let's just continue to reduce the budget, I guess the question is, do we resolve the tax issue on the back of children?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Now some may say, oh come on, I'm a good one. You're playing on the emotional strings. In truth, we can definitely do things differently, but students will have fewer

[R9547-40] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-introduced, ASR 'Middleton Goodwin' [9]; a | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: past four years, how can the tax rate be going up when this budget is basically flat? So if the answer is let's just continue to reduce the budget, I guess the question is, do we resolve the tax issue on the back of children?
TEXT> Now some may say, oh come on, I'm a good one. You're playing on the emotional strings. In truth,  we can definitely do things differently, but students will have fewer options if that's what the community wishes. If that is the community desire, that will be the outcome. But it's my responsibility to say, whoa. I, I I don't believe as superintendent, I arrived here, I don't think as superintendent, my administrative team and the school board had been out of control with the reduction of state aid, with the fixed cost increases, etc.. Does the community want this line to go like that? If they do, that is their choice. But there will be a residual impact on what's happening now.
NEXT> Unidentified: May I make my comments now please? Thank you very much for your very detailed answer. In fact, I agree with you. I do see a difference. As I said,

[R9547-41] Unidentified | Public commenter, Stevens class of 1979, teaches at River Valley Commu | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: had been out of control with the reduction of state aid, with the fixed cost increases, etc.. Does the community want this line to go like that? If they do, that is their choice. But there will be a residual impact on what's happening now.
TEXT> May I make my comments now please? Thank you very much for your very detailed answer. In fact, I agree with you. I do see a difference. As I said, I am  a I teach at River Valley Community College. I have taught in the Claremont Adult Education Program, and I did my student teaching here at Stevens. What I am seeing, and I am in a very strong position to tell you this, is that you absolutely cannot afford to cut teaching positions. I am seeing students who who are not prepared to do college work. And I have to tell you, I'm very sorry to tell you, but this is your job to deal with. I am seeing students from Stevens who are less well prepared than their counterparts from Fall Mountain or Lebanon or Keene. It seems to me that this is something that we need to deal with. I so I agree with you. Absolutely. What I find is that students are not prepared to read critically and analytically. So I am going to advocate that or I'm going to suggest to you that it is very important not to cut English positions. English is the foundational skill. It is the skill that you need for any other, any other classes.
NEXT> Unidentified: I know that Stem is trending right now, but you need strong reading skills, critical and analytical skills in order to do math, in order to do science, in order

[R9547-43] Unidentified | Public commenter, Stevens class of 1979, teaches at River Valley Commu | 2018-01-03
PREV> Unidentified: as apprentices. And so, you know, you may be reading a novel, but you are using the skills that you are going to use when you are studying the electrical codebook or, or you're writing a manual describing how to use a computer program. I.
TEXT> I understand the difficulties of, of the elderly people who live in Claremont, but I know that. But the approach that I would like to see is, not not reducing taxes, but increasing the tax, the tax base. And one way you do that is by attracting people to move into your town, by attracting businesses, to move into your town. And the way you do that is by having a strong school system that has the support of the of the school board and the school community. That's what attracts people, that's what attract businesses.  What I don't understand, and this is my question now for you. It seems to me that it is the job of the voters, or is the job of the of city management to say the tax rate is too high? We're going to vote it down. Your job, I would have thought, would be to advocate the school that you represent and the students who attend that school. As you said earlier, as Mr.. As doctor McGowan said earlier in his PowerPoint presentation, what we need is a flexible workforce, a workforce made up of  people who know how to learn new skills when they need to. And that, I would say is is  your lookout not cutting, not cutting the budget and not cutting critical  pieces from that budget? So thank you very much. That's what I have to say.
NEXT> Heather Irish: Hi, I'm Heather Irish, Ward three. I sat on this board for several years, when we had to ask the tasks taxpayers for some serious help, and they stood behind

[R9547-46] Heather Irish | Public commenter, Ward 3, former Claremont School Board member (self-i | 2018-01-03
PREV> Heather Irish: happening. It's not college, it's trades. So again, I don't mind. I'm saying to you be honest. If we're going to be honest, be honest. These people have asked for something. And what I'm hearing instead are threats. And this is what's going to happen.
TEXT> And it's going to be bad, you know, not for nothing. It's that and figured it out. I just looked it up while I was sitting here. Actually, the amount of people in Claremont and I believe it's around 33,000 amount of students that I see here, well, it's 13, sorry. The amount of students up here was 1800, which is if I'm wrong. And I'll ask  some people here a lot better math, but that's around 6%. Well, you know, I love how you always do that with somebody who doesn't agree with you, Brian. But anyway. But anyway, what I'm saying and and I get that.
NEXT> Unidentified: I gotta tell you that I think that's on line.

[R9547-50] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 2 (uncertain - self-introduction heard as 'I'm  | 2018-01-03
PREV> Unidentified: You don't have a time keeping. It says so on the agenda. He didn't agree to. It as a board. We did not time as the board. We do not agree to his time.
TEXT> I'm at being War two. So we want to be honest. Let's be honest. So vouchers are literally about to gut the public school system.  And we want to cut school funding. You want to cut school funding. Yeah. That's what you want to do. You want to cut school funding. You want to cut a crisis counselor. When I got up here and literally told you two weeks ago that that job saves children's lives, save their lives, and you still voted to cut it. You think.
NEXT> Unidentified: We have. No.

[R9547-70] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-introduced, ASR 'Jason Ben Ward one' [7 | 2018-01-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: padding that we can easily just pick away and everything remains the same. And now, because of the increases that explained, you know, I'm not sure what you heard me say, but if you look at that PowerPoint, how can you have fixed cost increases?
TEXT> I know that, please. I don't mean to interrupt you, but I only got three minutes. I, I get what you're saying. So my point is $32,500, one tenth of a percent of the total budget. I bet if you wiggle a little bit, you could find it somewhere for that, because a lot of people are concerned about that. Otherwise, I think that the budget as it stands makes sense. I think these people here are not going off half cocked. I think a lot of work was put into this. I'm pretty sure the lady back here was talking about English positions. I'm almost certain you guys did, studies on enrollment in those classes before you came up with these cuts? Correct. There were. What do we call those? What do they call those? Saturation studies? Right. So. So there was some research done with this, right? You didn't just arbitrarily come up with 3 or 4 cuts and you're like, well, we'll just cut these. So they're there. It's not just we're going to cut three English positions. You actually did some research as to how many kids are taking those classes.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Am I correct? I'm right. Right. So this isn't just somebody going off half cocked. Not you. I'm saying to you, these people didn't just go off half cocked with

[R9547-72] Unidentified | Stevens High School administrator and former selectman in another town | 2018-01-03
PREV> Jason Benware: they don't care about anybody. It's very disingenuous. I think that people care about the kids, but I think there needs to be some balance between caring about the kids and education and not breaking everybody in the town, too. There we go. I'm done.
TEXT> Thank you. Just a couple of comments. I was a selectman in my town for six years, so I know what it's like being on that side of the table. And I respect the job that you have to do. I know the balances that you have to, to, to make and the different constituencies that you have to answer to. So I respect that. I would just like to give you my perspective as an administrator, because what I see happening is a polarization and a demonizing of the two sides. And we're not going to ever get anywhere if we continue to do that. As administrators, we were asked after the superintendent came forth with his recommended budget, to sit down and not make recommendations because none of what we gave you were recommendations. They were an answer to a request by the board to meet a certain number. And I want to be very clear about that, because that's important to me. It's important to me as an educator. It's important to me that the parents who send their kids to this school know that, and that the students who are in this school know that I did not make these recommendations.
NEXT> Unidentified: What it felt like was Sophie's Choice. So when when I'm looking at a foreign language teacher or an English teacher or a crisis counselor or an administrative assistant, all

[R9548-7] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 1 (Park Ave), Stevens High School school counse | 2018-01-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: And after everyone's had a chance to speak once people will be allowed to speak again. Anybody else like to speak?
TEXT> High school board meeting, I don't. I live on Park Ave, so whatever ward that is, I think it's one one Ward one. I have a terrible cold, so I'm sorry for this.  I'll be short because I don't want to cough in your ears. I've been school counselor. Stevens. This is my second year.  And these cuts obviously break all of our hearts because Stevens and the Claremont district are just like. We're really close. Like, we all work as a team.  And as a student support person,  who works with kids every day. The crisis counter cut is the one that breaks my heart the most, because I see how often kids need the crisis counselor. And yes, we work with the crisis counselor. But as Corey said, the crisis counselor is gone. The plan is going to be basically be emergency room. And now when kids have a mental health issue at school, they have a support they can go to at school. And guess what? We can assist with that. It's not our main priority, so to speak, because that's not what I'm trained in exclusively.  And I think and again board, I understand these were not your cuts and I, I know administration's heartbroken about the cuts.
NEXT> Unidentified: I understand all of that. I just it just makes me really sad because I'm someone I'm, I'm one of the young adults that Claremont is always according to come

[R9548-18] Larissa Cahill | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens High School teacher and parent (self | 2018-01-03
PREV> Larissa Cahill: give a directive and it's an important directive, but you also have to own the consequences of that directive. And that's where the challenge comes in, because no one really wants to see any of these things happen. No one wants to see teachers leave.
TEXT> No one wants to see a crisis counselor leave.  I know what a huge impact that would make. I know as a parent thinking of losing a world language teacher. I mentioned to you before,  and I might as well just put it out there that when I.  I had school choice when I was a  resident of Brownsville, Vermont, have since moved to Claremont, I had a choice to choose where my daughter could go to high school. She chose Stevens High School herself because it offered German. German wasn't something that's offered at a lot of high schools in this area. German isn't something that's and it's something that she loved. She had studied it early on in her  younger elementary years and wanted to do more of it. And it had German and softball, those two very specific things that were interesting to her is why she chose Stevens High School. The thing about it is that I've given almost 15 years of my career to this community.  I've put my children in schools here in this community. Claremont has always been attractive to me as a citizen, as a teacher, the unfortunate reality is watching year after year of the same sort of thing, these cuts that come about where there is an emotional attachment, as you're sitting there watching your colleagues have to stand up and beg for their jobs and to tell you why they're valuable to this community.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: With a community that doesn't seem to value them, you can make a blanket statement that teachers are valuable. But yet we're going to cut some of you, you know,

[R9548-19] Larissa Cahill | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens High School teacher and parent (self | 2018-01-03
PREV> Larissa Cahill: after year of the same sort of thing, these cuts that come about where there is an emotional attachment, as you're sitting there watching your colleagues have to stand up and beg for their jobs and to tell you why they're valuable to this community.
TEXT> With a community that doesn't seem to value them, you can make a blanket statement that teachers are valuable. But yet we're going to cut some of you, you know, next year it could be me. I don't see why not. I'm no different. No more special than any other teacher here. And so what I have to say is that at one point in time, this school district was extraordinarily special to me and still is and very attractive to my family. If I had to make the decision again for my daughter, I don't know if I would. We're going to cut German. I don't know if I would make that that choice. The thing about it, I just want to wrap up by saying I have always believed in this community. I have always believed in the talents, the abilities, and the gifts that your your children have brought into my classroom. And on this stage, year after year, I just, I and I love being part of this community and I want the community to believe in itself. So thank you.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: Hello, I'm Marion Lovett, I'm a Stevens graduate and the former representative for the student representative on the school board for the past two years, talking about this and discussing

[R9548-21] Marion Lovett | Public commenter, Stevens graduate and former student representative t | 2018-01-03
PREV> Marion Lovett: niche, they do a full report card on how to grade schools, basically in New Hampshire. And the highest grade we got was a B+ for our teachers. These are our teachers who are getting the best grade out of anything in Claremont School District.
TEXT> I mean, our academics are C plus, our teachers are a B+. Our diversity is B minus clubs and activities of B minus college preps a C plus which teachers help get you ready for college. I know I'm a freshman myself and then the ratings online is alarming. I mean, CMS has one out of five stars and when you're reading the reviews, it's a lot because of bullying, which a crisis counselor helps for. So when you cut that position, who's the kid going to go to when they're getting bullied in school and they don't understand how to handle the situation because yes, it makes our middle school. But I do know it flows into high school well. One great review was for Disney Elementary School is 3.8 out of five stars, and the review just focuses on the teachers itself. And so when you have the only highest reviews being four out of five stars, talking just about teachers and any other review, look at being one out of five stars talking about anything else I would seriously take in consideration. When you're looking at these cuts, look at your values. Look at the things that your own citizens here are telling you they find important.
NEXT> Marion Lovett: And when you're actually getting rated by other people in the state, and if you want to increase your tax base to decrease the dollar on the citizen, and they're

[R9548-39] Jesse Burrill | Public commenter, Ward 3, not a registered voter; Stevens High School  | 2018-01-03
PREV> Nick: from people that would have been here tonight, but they thought they could see this at home. So, I don't have anything else really to say tonight, except for kudos to the young lady at the end for trying to maintain decorum earlier. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. I'm not a registered voter, but my name is Jessie Burrill. I live in Ward three. Thank you. So I'm not going to say too much here this evening, but, the lady who was here before me,  mentioned that she thinks that you should be able to come to Stephens or to one of our school districts to view a day of classes. When I was here on the 20th, I did extend an invitation to members of the board to come to Stephens. So I would like to reiterate that for starters. And we've been focusing we've selected a few students  who we think would be good for you all to  follow, and we're going to be working on getting invitations out to you individually in the very near future. And you can expect that probably within the next week, because we're going to focus on the week of the 12th,  along with the 16th and the 17th  will be very flexible with whatever times work for you as members. I understand that there are some time concerns, so honestly, whatever we can do, we'll rearrange anything. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9548-57] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair ('The four of us that supported that | 2018-01-03
PREV> Unidentified: The day.
TEXT> Of so that and we were told that budget was prepared two hours before the meeting. So the fact of the matter is, it is what it appears to be. There's an 800 pound elephant in the room. We gave a directive. It was ignored. We were delayed months and months. So had all we asked for in the beginning and given to us. We didn't want to say cut a million. We wanted to see what it looked like and we'd go from there, which is what happened if we'd been given that opportunity in October. Trust me, this meeting would not be happening like this tonight. It wasn't us. We tried to start early so we could find those areas that we believe. I believe in my heart. In the heart. There's more than $1 million in this budget that can be cut without touching a program or a teacher or student. It happens over years and years of over budgeting or whatever. So and so to that point, I would like to ask Mike, because this came up to one of our last meeting. How much money has has the school returned over the course of the last four years? Six years? I want to go with four because it came up at a meeting roughly $2.2 million. So we've averaged $500,000 a year being returned to the general fund, not to the taxpayers, to the general fund each year. That money you paid taxes on.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But it didn't go anywhere except go back to the general fund. That's our point to this exercise, people. We've been turning money back every year. So for us, for

[R9548-66] Carolyn Towle | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-introduced, ASR 'Carolyn Tull' [142]; r | 2018-01-03
PREV> Unidentified: Never mind.
TEXT> And I, David. I'll get you afterwards.  I had two grandchildren very proudly graduate from this high school,  and I know some of the ins and outs that they suffered going through four years of high school.  Well aware I brought up for children. I know what they are. And with today's society, I'm glad they're not growing up these days. So there's a lot of pressures. I get it. But I'd like to know just how we're spending our money and where we can say thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9549-98] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the student grant and the anonymous  | 2018-01-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Donor.
TEXT> Would like to donate $2,000 to support the Bluff Elementary School fourth grade students who take their annual trip this spring for the White Mountains.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Fantastic.

[R9549-212] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (moves to reconsider the budget [128]; I | 2018-01-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Frank.
TEXT> I just want to echo what Chris said, because when we went, we met our in our Saturday meeting. That's what everybody there wanted to do. Patrick is not on the board anymore. That's what he wanted to do. Like that's what he wanted to do, that that was what we wanted to do. Get start managing the budget a little more responsibly. I don't want to talk about cuts. That's the wrong terminology. I think this is about management.  So,  there was a solid commitment. It's eroding a little bit. We've we've heard a lot. I think we've made some pretty substantial reconciliations. I think we've become we've come a long way toward in listening to students, teachers, administration has come a long ways, but I hate to fall short this close to the finish line, just not get there because we're close. Yeah. I mean. I was at that meeting that Saturday. I think since then I, you know. Looking at things, I see some budget. Management. I guess it's not cuts, but. Ways we can manage the budget. That I see for the future that Eric can happen this year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Things that we need to look at taking action on. Like I said before, bringing those kids that are tuition out, bring them back. It's going to cost some money

[R9549-301] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (chair 'Alex.' [83, 225] then this voice | 2018-01-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Alex, you had a question.
TEXT> Not a question, yes, a statement. Listening to all the people here, here for the public hearing, listening all along, reading along on Facebook, getting  used to not commenting, you know. Right. And that doesn't mean we're not reading. And and it's it's a quite divisive subject. Again, I look at the students who come, you know, my experience and working at colleges, you know, they come with lots of baggage. And that's something that they're coming to high school with. They're struggling with a lot of, concerns. Maslow's hierarchy talks about you've got to have the basics on the bottom. That's that crisis counseling. That's it. You know, they got to have a if they don't have a warm place to sleep at night or have breakfast, they're not going to do well. Teachers aren't just teaching classes anymore. They're crisis counselors. They're mentors, mediators, motivators, coaches. They're doing so much. I'm married to a teacher, and I've I've more than once put up a classroom, you know, that's what we do. And all the extra hours that they put in over the time that the PTA are getting involved with this and that, I, I want to support that.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I want to support our teachers. I want to keep good teachers, and I want them to stay here. So that's why I'm still proposing that we support that that

[R9549-302] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (chair 'Alex.' [83, 225] then this voice | 2018-01-03
PREV> Alex Herzog: teacher, and I've I've more than once put up a classroom, you know, that's what we do. And all the extra hours that they put in over the time that the PTA are getting involved with this and that, I, I want to support that.
TEXT> I want to support our teachers. I want to keep good teachers, and I want them to stay here. So that's why I'm still proposing that we support that that motion I just sent that said, I want to support our strategic plan. And as we talked about, I don't want money to be an excuse that we can't accomplish these goals. There should be some real accountability, and we want to see results from the students. And what would I would like to see is are, you know, are things change from the state level so that we can see, hey, our grades are going up, our more students are going. We're not just 75%, 80% are going, those are the kind of accountabilities we should be monitoring and looking at. And I don't want make money in excuse, honestly.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So. Yeah. So, so good.

[R9586-4] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides from the first agenda item; sup | 2018-01-31
PREV> Alex Herzog: to talk to us about the deliberative and Roberts reasons. I don't want to keep her waiting for us all night. So I'd like to bring her up front as fast as possible to get that conversation while she's here, so she can go home.
TEXT> Okay.  How about right after the student reps report?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Perfect.

[R9586-18] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides from the first agenda item; sup | 2018-01-31
PREV> Unidentified: Second.
TEXT> I'd like to make one correction.  I've already talked to Mrs. Woodman about it as far as the public hearing. Minutes on page seven. It's listed as Patty Arison from Ward three. That is actually Patty Harrison of Wethersfield, Vermont that spoke. Got that like to make that correction. All those in favor? Student representatives report.
NEXT> Lexi: On Thursday, December 7th. Yes. I'm bringing it way back there because I haven't done a report in a while. So on Thursday, December 7th, the Stevens High School Band

[R9586-21] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-01-31
PREV> Lexi: bluff update. Last Thursday, January 25th, 11 bluff students participated in a school wide spelling bee. It showed just how much all of these students who participated had prepared because in order for them to declare a winner, it took a total of 15 rounds.
TEXT> On Monday, January 29th, Bluff Elementary School recognized those students in each grade in each grade level, who demonstrated both effort and integrity with certificates. The students who were recognized for their effort were those who work hard every day, even when learning becomes difficult. Those students recognized for their integrity were students that constantly do the right thing, even when other people aren't watching. Also on Monday, January 29th, The Bluff third graders gave presentations on a myriad of wild animals. My goodness.  Their presentations were supported with actual wildlife provided by the Vermont Natural History Museum. Students were then able to get a close up and personal look at a red tailed hawk, a screech owl, a few snakes, a tarantula, Madagascar hissing cockroaches, and even a snap snapping turtle. I would have been scared out of my mind, but that's okay. They had a good time. So this is a little about middle school update. The November students of the month are  Riley Riggs Sanders, who's in sixth grade, Matthew Becker, who is in grade seven, and Dylan Chambers, who was in grade eight. Congratulations to those three students and keep up the good work.
NEXT> Lexi: On Tuesday, December 5th, CMS held the forum for middle school parents. Within this forum, the question of how can we work together at CMS to create a learning environment

[R9586-22] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-01-31
PREV> Lexi: little about middle school update. The November students of the month are Riley Riggs Sanders, who's in sixth grade, Matthew Becker, who is in grade seven, and Dylan Chambers, who was in grade eight. Congratulations to those three students and keep up the good work.
TEXT> On Tuesday, December 5th, CMS held the forum for middle school parents. Within this forum, the question of how can we work together at CMS to create a learning environment of acceptance, kindness and caring? There is an amazing turnout of of all CMS staff members, parents, students and board members. The CMS band Inquire performed their winter concert recently. This concert was directed by Mr. Tom Smith and was a huge success. The CMS Student Council sponsored another Spirit Week the week of December 18th to the to the 22nd. Everyone enjoyed the Daily Spirit challenges. The CMS Student Council is under the advisement of Miss Courtney Steele. Miss Felicia Foley and Miss Susan Taylor are the school counselors at CMS with the help of a Vista volunteer, Caitlin Cavanaugh. They are busy implementing the Geared Up program. CMS in class lessons on college and college awareness are ongoing events being held at CMS for the eighth graders. The eighth graders also had an amazing opportunity to visit Keene State College last month. With this experience, the students were able to eat in the Keene State College Dining Hall. The CMS PBIs teams are working with a coach through the System of Care Grant to improve the current model in place of multi-tiered systems of support, also known as emptiness.
NEXT> Lexi: CMS is excited about this collaboration and the opportunity they are given in order to improve. After all, it's all about the kids. At the end of January, CMS will

[R9586-24] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-01-31
PREV> Lexi: students involved. In February 8th grade, eighth grade students will be going to Dartmouth to a Dartmouth versus Harvard hockey game next month. The eighth graders will also be going to Colby Sawyer College for a visit as part of the Geared Up program preschool.
TEXT> I passed out these three cute little fliers that Doctor Diane Edwards had emailed to me along with her update. So the preschool has posted behavior, expectations, expectations, which is the one that says our flock follows these cardinal rules. The preschool has posted behavior expectations where everyone is now involved. These posters are hanging up all throughout the school. These expectations include being kind, being respectful, being safe, being responsible, being problem solvers, and doing their best every day. I also just want to point out that on top of every flier that she makes, it says Claremont Early Childhood Education Program. And then under it says home of the Baby Cardinals. And I just love that because then she uses little baby cardinals all over the posters. I just love it. So then the second one is the one that says Gym Buddies wanted for preschoolers. The preschool is using the Claremont Savings Bank Community Center once a week, using the pool, track, or even the gym. High school students are helping to walk students to and from getting ready for the activities and to help foster the fun.
NEXT> Lexi: The preschool staff and students want to thank Hannaford Supermarket for donating reusable shopping bags that the students can use for their belongings. Doctor Diane Edwards is teaching a running

[R9586-25] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-01-31
PREV> Lexi: for preschoolers. The preschool is using the Claremont Savings Bank Community Center once a week, using the pool, track, or even the gym. High school students are helping to walk students to and from getting ready for the activities and to help foster the fun.
TEXT> The preschool staff and students want to thank Hannaford Supermarket for donating reusable shopping bags that the students can use for their belongings. Doctor Diane Edwards is teaching a running start course at the preschool called Applied Child Growth Growth in Development. This course includes two hours a week spent spent at the preschool with the students. And then that's the third stand out. So now here is for a lengthy sports update. Girls varsity basketball at Stevens. Girls varsity basketball won the game they had against Hopkinton High School on Wednesday, December 5th with a score of 29 to 26. Girls  varsity basketball also won their game on Friday, December 8th against Franklin High School with a score of 55 to 30 years of our City basketball also played regional high school on Friday, January 19th and won with a final score of 56 to 36. Girls varsity basketball also won their game against Newport High School on Tuesday, January 23rd with a score of 46 to 37. Girls JV basketball. They won their game on Friday, December 1st against Mascot Valley Regional High School with a final score of 39 to 25. Girls JV also won the game they had on Friday, December 8th against Franklin High School with a score of 62 to 13 on January 12th.
NEXT> Lexi: Girls JV basketball won their when their game against Convo Regional High School with a score of 30 to 20. Girls JV basketball also played Newport High School on Tuesday,

[R9586-125] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [121, 492] and 'Doctor | 2018-01-31
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. And again, good evening. You have at your place a a pink pink document paper document that talks about the, the annual report 2017. And, and this speaks  to I am college bound Stevens High School. Has one of its academic achievement goals within the next five years is to expand the opportunity for students to be more aware of post-high school educational experiences to support them. In fact, that's beginning at the Claremont Middle School this year would gear up New Hampshire, gaining early awareness readiness for undergraduate programs, gear up with the work of the administration and the guidance and the faculty of Stevens High School. If you refer to page three of this document, you'll see Annual Report 2017 submitted applications by participating high school. And you'll notice these are the high schools that did participate in this, in this effort  that took place in the middle of November through December 1st. And students who participated did their application fees were waived. And that is, not only were they supported in the application process.  And Lexi, perhaps you can you can speak to that. But  their application fees were waived.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And it's unfortunate, but you wouldn't want a $100 application fee to be a deterrent to to apply. And if you'll note, 42 students participated and 106 applications were submitted

[R9586-126] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [121, 492] and 'Doctor | 2018-01-31
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the middle of November through December 1st. And students who participated did their application fees were waived. And that is, not only were they supported in the application process. And Lexi, perhaps you can you can speak to that. But their application fees were waived.
TEXT> And it's unfortunate, but you wouldn't want a $100 application fee to be a deterrent to to apply.  And if you'll note,  42 students participated and 106 applications  were submitted during this period of time. So it's an exciting time for for Stevens High School and for Claremont as students become more exposed to  the opportunities. Would you like to make any? Could I defer? Lexi, is there anything you would like to add to what I've said?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Absolutely.

[R9586-132] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides from the first agenda item; sup | 2018-01-31
PREV> Alex Herzog: So thank you.
TEXT> Is New Hampshire higher ed? There are a nonprofit organization that works with students and helping them access financial aid. Yeah.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Our students, staff.

[R9586-135] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [121, 492] and 'Doctor | 2018-01-31
PREV> Alex Herzog: And.
TEXT> School board members received an invitation.  Of your invited invitation to celebrate Black History Month and tomorrow at Maple Avenue Elementary School from 330.  Rural outreach and the Claremont School District is supporting the third series, Understanding Diversity and Inclusion Through Children's Literature.  This program will also be held if if invitees cannot make the 330 February 1st reading. Green Mountain Childcare one for all space River Valley Community College. TLC Family Resource Center is not elementary school and the Fisk Free Library. So not only recognizing Black History Month, but also bringing the community together.  To to celebrate the book freedom Summer. So  it's. To me, it's a it's a great statement about our community, about the faculty and TLC Family Resource Center working together  to to bring the community together. And also, very importantly, to provide everyone the opportunity to celebrate Black History Month. I also want to share with you. And I have shared with you at your setting there was a two sided document. I received two letters from Germany the past week and a half. I think these letters are self-explanatory.  Supporting  the sustaining and maintaining German as a foreign language at at Stevens High School.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And last but not least, talking about Stevens High School, though I'd like to talk about other schools in the future. One of the academic achievement goals for Stevens High

[R9586-153] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides from the first agenda item; sup | 2018-01-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: amazing to watch them just switch out. And it was really. It was a lot of fun to go in the band. The band thing was really cool. That was weren't quite expecting at first making ever sitting there like, well. Thank you for that.
TEXT> Thank you. So we've already heard deliberative session I'm thinking, which is on the agenda.  Student voice.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Actually, the student voice was tentatively being planned for the deliberative session. But talking with Tracy Pope and working with Pat Berry and and the Stevens High School faculty, that's

[R9586-154] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [121, 492] and 'Doctor | 2018-01-31
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. So we've already heard deliberative session I'm thinking, which is on the agenda. Student voice.
TEXT> Actually, the student voice was tentatively being planned for the deliberative session. But talking with Tracy Pope and working with Pat Berry and  and the Stevens High School faculty, that's going to be scheduled at another time. It would not be appropriate, according to Tracy, to have it be part of the deliberative session.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Fiscal year 19 budget reductions.

[R9586-161] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I'd like to defer to M | 2018-01-31
PREV> Michael O'Neill: other things. But we had to come up with some cuts and, and delay some projects that we had going on right now. Next one is $28,000. That's a roof section replacement for the entrance to to Maple, which will just have to be delayed.
TEXT> Propane again, better pricing and less usage. Cut $4,500 in propane. Regular instructional salaries $75,000. We talked about removing one teaching position from Disney art, so we removed that teaching position for $75,000, visit our guidance supplies, and reduced guidance supplies at all the elementary schools just based on usage technology equipment reduced by 1188 90. It is not admin, printing and admin supplies again consistently throughout the buildings. We took 501,000 out of those respectively. Does not mean repairs and maintenance services. Again cut by $7,000 just to to delay some of the contracted services and other things that we were we were working on repairing over there.  Propane down 5500 better pricing and usage CMS regular instruction accommodations again cut 500 supplies. We cut 1000 music student services. We cut  a thousand team supplies, 200, 200, 100 textbooks, CMS sped textbooks on account. We just haven't been using. We cut that by 1000. Business education, new equipment. Cut that by 500. Athletic salaries. Coaches. We talked about taking the assistant athletic director out. So those next 7 or 8 lines are basically dealing with the assistant athletic director. Next line is guidance supplies. We cut that by $500 based on usage.  Tech equipment again district wide. We cut 856 60. We cut 193. 940 from that line CMS school had been supplies cut it by 500.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: CMS maintenance contracted services again consistent throughout the buildings. You cut 5000 out of that line in that building maintenance and repair services. On the next line, $40,000 was basically

[R9586-250] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'I'd like to defer to M | 2018-01-31
PREV> Unidentified: So thank you.
TEXT> Now, I'm going to call your attention real quick to the other side of this page, which looks a lot like this. This is the revenue side. And as Brian had said, we did add kindergarten in there. If you go down column one and you go down to D estimated keynote garden, that's what they're calling it, a $100 per full day kindergarten student. A couple of years ago, we we found money in the budget to to stop full day kindergarten. And now the state's going to stop paying us back some of that money. They're going to give us a minimum of $1,100 per student. Based on the current numbers of students that we have of 139, that will pay us 52,150 2900, that money is  that amount per student is expected to continue to increase over the years, as long as the success of Keno continues to grow, we could get as much as $4,400 per student.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So go play.

[R9586-261] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (board member: 'Thanks, Corey.' [630]  | 2018-01-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I just thought I was under the understanding, and maybe I'm wrong, that Josh was working really hard to work on a grant that was going to help a lot with that stuff is that.
TEXT> He has secured a grant, but the grant is for security upgrades. It's not for the replacement and operation of existing equipment that would be in the hands of teachers and students. It would be for,  providing cameras and door access and things that we don't currently have for security purposes, not for instructional purposes.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: But there is other grants and programs out there for the technical technology part of this that we could be researching and looking into. Correct. As we do these other

[R9586-265] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'What's your thinking, Alex?' [6 | 2018-01-31
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: It's called supplanting. It's not appropriate.
TEXT> And Frank ask that. I think that one of the things about grants you got to apply for, and they got to be selected many times, and it's a very selective process of times. On the flip side, when I was in high school, I, I can't believe the the students use of the technology. And that was the one thing in the honors economic class. The students all agreed is please don't cut technology anymore. We need the technology. And if I think about preparing students for a workforce, that's an experience that they have to have. Understanding computers nowadays. So I would employ the board that we really look at that for next year.  I at this point, unless we probably some finagling that could happen, but I wasn't quite aware until after visiting the high school and looking into it more of the the technology is really in high demand.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the teachers.

[R9586-293] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [121, 492] and 'Doctor | 2018-01-31
PREV> Frank Sprague: In this district.
TEXT> In this district Claremont. That's correct. And the  and the memo. Before that, if Senate Bill 193 will have the most discernible impact in year one on certain districts serving a high percentage of free lunch students, and looking at that, they in the first year  would be a little over $88,000 if, in fact, Senate Bill 193. So there are those who are in favor of it. There are those who are not, but there are certain districts because of zip code and because the playing field isn't level in our nation, let alone the state of New Hampshire, where it will have a greater impact. So I'm going to ask you as a board, if you would vote to oppose Senate Bill 193 tonight. That's not going to turn Senate Bill 193, but it will allow me to go forward working with others. If Senate Bill 193 is approved by the by the residents of the state in an attempt to overturn that without costing us funding, but at least knowing that this school board is in opposition to Senate Bill 193. So I would I would ask.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I'll make a motion that the school board come out against Senate Bill 193.

[R9586-349] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'What's your thinking, Alex?' [6 | 2018-01-31
PREV> Frank Sprague: Discussion, further discussion.
TEXT> So just so that I understand this correctly, this is for our female or students. Female students. Yes. And that's what I understood. So that they can play in the hockey league up in Lebanon or Lebanon. Is that understanding? I just don't know.
NEXT> Unidentified: About.

[R9586-356] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (student rep: 'Brian was | 2018-01-31
PREV> Unidentified: I don't think there is.
TEXT> If there was anything, it was minimal. It was just maybe some fees or something. But there really wasn't much. Of a cost. But most of the equipment students pay for or families pay for themselves.
NEXT> Unidentified: So it's a.

[R9586-391] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (student rep: 'Brian was | 2018-01-31
PREV> Unidentified: And.
TEXT> If that's something that we're doing, I don't know if there's a way to make sure that we have consent or that parents or students understand that that's take that, that could be taking place on the bus beforehand.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9586-394] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (student rep: 'Brian was | 2018-01-31
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: There is there is a statute regarding the recordings. In the classroom, especially when it comes to teachers. I would have to do some homework on that. I am not aware of that, but I'd like to get caught up on that.
TEXT> Yeah. And it could very well be that there's a difference when it's in a school setting or a bus setting  with children, but  as far as I know, in general recording or, you know, recording a conversation with somebody and them not having the knowledge of it is actually illegal. So I just wanted to make sure that we cover our bases.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Especially if it's potentially incriminating, potentially incriminating. Right.

[R9586-407] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Middleton' [121, 492] and 'Doctor | 2018-01-31
PREV> Unidentified: But.
TEXT> They definitely have cabinets that are locked. Yeah. Any any prescriptive drugs? Children's medications are definitely a lock and key.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we have a motion on the floor to move all forward. The for all five of these from Brian forward to a second. Was it Alex?

[R9592-30] Dan Kelly | Veterinarian, emergency animal clinic in Lebanon (self-introduced, ASR | 2018-01-30
PREV> Dan Kelly: with extremely high lead levels. Interestingly, we didn't know what the time when she submitted her dog to be tested, but her daughter also had been tested with high lead levels. And interestingly, but not significantly, she was actually living in Claremont at the time.
TEXT> So we have a correlation of 100%. Okay. We know that the child had a high  level and the pet had a high level. Unfortunately, it's N of one. Okay. We only have one  sample, which doesn't make it very statistically significant. So I became involved with these research projects at Kimball Union. At these students do. It's a year long research project, and I'm working with the students on two of them that are animal related this year, and one that Isabella has elected to take on is trying to find a correlation between lead levels in household members  that have been tested high and their pets.
NEXT> Mike: So I have a few copies. I didn't make enough for everyone, but if you want to pass these around and maybe I don't know, a couple of you can

[R9592-31] Mike | Faculty member, Kimball Union Academy (uncertain - one fragment 'At Ki | 2018-01-30
PREV> Dan Kelly: and I'm working with the students on two of them that are animal related this year, and one that Isabella has elected to take on is trying to find a correlation between lead levels in household members that have been tested high and their pets.
TEXT> So I have a few copies. I didn't make enough for everyone, but if you want to pass these around and maybe I don't know, a couple of you can share them. But I know that a few of you on the city council,  have already heard this spiel, so maybe you don't need a copy tonight, but,  we do appreciate you having us here and allowing us to kind of share and take up some of your your time  to hear us out. And hopefully you have some ideas potentially,  you know, to help us out and hopefully we'll continue to support our project. A couple of things. I mean, I think we don't need to go over a lot about the risks, but the major risks in children of lead, elevated lead levels are  permanent brain damage. That's, you know, if kids are really young children between the ages of zero and three. It's it's not really reversible, which is scary.  Fortunately, there was just new legislation passed in the state of New Hampshire. Anyway, many states don't have this, but, where kids will be now will now be required to be tested young ages. So we're interested this project really, you know, you know, the sources of lead exposure.
NEXT> Mike: The major sources are paint, 62% of homes in New Hampshire were built before lead was banned from paints. And, you know, lead and pipes that were actually painted with

[R9592-33] Mike | Faculty member, Kimball Union Academy, lead-in-pets study presenter (' | 2018-01-30
PREV> Mike: know, ceramic bowls and those sorts of things that are made out of, you know, earth and clay and a lot of the, the brighter yellows and reds and, oranges in order to enhance the color, they put lead as an additive in the glazes.
TEXT> And so depending on what temperature it's fired at, there can be risk. And even the bulls that pets are drinking out of.  In terms of the details of our, you know, the purpose of our project. Like Doctor Kelly said, is to the ideal information. The ideal data that we want is the trying to see if there's a relationship, a significant relationship between individuals who are, we already know, have elevated lead levels and their pets. Now, as you might imagine, there are, you know, not imagine. As you know, there are HIPAA regulations. We can't we don't know. And we can't target people or families in and in this community or any other that already have elevated lead levels. Our hope is that those people will hear about this, understand the importance, and then turn out to have their pets tested. Why this is important. We feel like, I mean, again, in New Hampshire, this may not be as big of an,  I don't know. As important now that the new legislation. But in other states that don't have, don't require lead testing in children.  You can have your pets tested. We think we've talked about for probably less $10 or less.
NEXT> Mike: Draw a little blood. They're drawing blood all the time for pets anyway. Draw a little blood. Run a test. And right. If the if there is a correlation in

[R9592-40] Mike | Faculty member, Kimball Union Academy, lead-in-pets study presenter (' | 2018-01-30
PREV> Dan Kelly: Sample from the boa.
TEXT> So there was a question from the school, the the school board, in terms of how how your high school students at Stevens could contribute  and help us. I certainly with the blood drives themselves and helping coordinate and manage  on site,  that would be a huge help for us. We are happy to share all of our raw data, which teachers could use to analyze as they wish  with their students, and I think there's probably room for future projects related to this that,  I don't mean that we manage, but that the students there could certainly, do on their own or obviously with support and that sort of thing. And I'm open to other ideas too. I certainly, you know, and, you know, it's kind of a give and take here too, right? Like, I mean, your support is very important to us, and we would love to support other students as if you all or your teachers have ideas. Certainly they can get in touch with me and we can talk about ideas and be more than open to that. And then again, you know, I guess in terms of detail,  I don't know if that's all I had. And if you have questions, things that you made notes about, questions that you might have, we'd be happy to answer them.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Could you share briefly the study that they did in Flint, Michigan? This has been done just once with animals after the Flint, Michigan.

[R9592-42] Dan Kelly | Veterinarian, emergency animal clinic in Lebanon (self-introduced, ASR | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Could you share briefly the study that they did in Flint, Michigan? This has been done just once with animals after the Flint, Michigan.
TEXT> The crisis was done by a veterinarian researcher at Michigan State University. They went in. They did find elevated lead levels in those pets.  And that is really the only study like this that's been done that I could find any literature searches that I did. In veterinary medicine, we deal with lead poisoning when the lead levels are so high that the animal is seizing or it's anemic. And these are 50 times higher than what we're diagnosing children with, with these background exposures. So nobody's really looked at these low levels. Now we're doing it mostly as a public health marker.  The next, you know, if the high school wanted to follow up on this, the other thing would be to take this data and try to look at it and say, okay, what's the incidence of seizure patients with higher lead levels? What's the life expectancy? You know, there's a lot of things that you can slice and dice of data. If we put it in that questionnaire or we send out follow up questionnaires.  This the veterinarian in Michigan State was super excited about this, the one that did the Flint study. And as Gail Giddins, who I know most, a lot of you guys have worked with,  she said, you know, that got all that publicity and it was a big deal.
NEXT> Dan Kelly: The reality of it is the number of kids that were affected there are about the same. And don't quote me on numbers, but relatively the same as what is

[R9592-43] Dan Kelly | Veterinarian, emergency animal clinic in Lebanon (self-introduced, ASR | 2018-01-30
PREV> Dan Kelly: Michigan State was super excited about this, the one that did the Flint study. And as Gail Giddins, who I know most, a lot of you guys have worked with, she said, you know, that got all that publicity and it was a big deal.
TEXT> The reality of it is the number of kids that were affected there are about the same. And don't quote me on numbers, but relatively the same as what is affected in New Hampshire on an annual and ongoing basis. So next year we're going to place is big and three times is big. So it's a much bigger problem here as it is in pets. And this really could be if we can get the numbers and good data. This could be cutting edge. I mean, my hope is that this could be presented at least as a poster at veterinary meetings and human public health meetings. It's pretty interesting stuff. And everybody I've talked to in the scientific community is absolutely fascinated by it.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Fantastic. So I think did I send the study? I know I sent the study to you and the city manager, I think, to Brian the chair, but I'm not

[R9592-44] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont (presides over the council side; city manager: 'Tha | 2018-01-30
PREV> Dan Kelly: could be cutting edge. I mean, my hope is that this could be presented at least as a poster at veterinary meetings and human public health meetings. It's pretty interesting stuff. And everybody I've talked to in the scientific community is absolutely fascinated by it.
TEXT> Fantastic. So I think did I send the study? I know I sent the study to you and the city manager, I think, to Brian the chair, but I'm not so sure. So there is a study that they were that Doctor Kelly has already sent me. So if people on the school board and city council are interested in the there's a summary of the study and then there's the in-depth study. It's kind of it's I found it fascinating, but it goes in line, supports our community wide effort to deal with the lead poisoning issue. And again, like, Mr. Van. Andel. And Doctor Kelly had said, this is going to be just another data point that we can use because there are homes here. Though the state average for 31978 homes is 62%. Here in Claremont is 84.1%, because we are one of the 21 highest risk communities in the state. So there are homes where there are no children residing in the homes, but they may visit or they may not. There may not even be any children visitors. However, if the the homeowner has a pet, then that at least is an indication if the pet comes up positive for lead poisoning that they have a problem in the home, so they might want to address it.
NEXT> Dan Kelly: So how many how many households fall through that crack? I mean, I think we're doing better and getting better all the time. Pediatricians and testing children, like you said,

[R9592-45] Dan Kelly | Veterinarian, emergency animal clinic in Lebanon (self-introduced, ASR | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: not even be any children visitors. However, if the the homeowner has a pet, then that at least is an indication if the pet comes up positive for lead poisoning that they have a problem in the home, so they might want to address it.
TEXT> So how many how many households fall through that crack? I mean, I think we're doing better and getting better all the time. Pediatricians and testing children, like you said, nobody, not everybody has kids, right?
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Right.

[R9592-48] Mike | Faculty member, Kimball Union Academy, lead-in-pets study presenter (' | 2018-01-30
PREV> Dan Kelly: Or they move to the area and fall through the cracks or.
TEXT> And while I focused on children that this does affect adults to, our brains are just after three years old. Our brains have a little bit better buffer,  to lead, but still certainly,  this affects adults as well and has the potential to cause similar issues in adults. It's just not quite as.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I. Had superintendent of schools that would be very interested in partnering with you. Kimball Union, as well as the veterinary profession. But, you know, chemistry and wellness are

[R9592-51] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah.
TEXT> So welcome. Look forward to working with you and, and your fellow students and this organization.
NEXT> Mike: Great. Thank you.

[R9592-55] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont (presides over the council side; city manager: 'Tha | 2018-01-30
PREV> Mike: But.
TEXT> I want. And I'm not going to put her on the spot because I just want the the school board and city council to know as well as the public that she is at cour for her senior year. And she comes from Spain. Yeah. So,  I think what I'm hearing from the school board is that you're supportive. Of. Type of project and that this provides,  Stevens High School students the opportunity to not only partner with you and assist her and her project for her graduation requirements, but also applied learning outside of the school room.
NEXT> Dan Kelly: So well, this isn't a time to brainstorm about ideas to get, you know, to organize this, I realize that, but one of the things that may be the simplest

[R9592-56] Dan Kelly | Veterinarian, emergency animal clinic in Lebanon (self-introduced, ASR | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: school board is that you're supportive. Of. Type of project and that this provides, Stevens High School students the opportunity to not only partner with you and assist her and her project for her graduation requirements, but also applied learning outside of the school room.
TEXT> So well, this isn't a time to brainstorm about ideas to get, you know, to organize this, I realize that, but one of the things that may be the simplest way is if we could through the schools, is have and it may be simpler than some of the other ways we've talked. If the school wants to get involved as halves, students bring their family pets in and have them tested. We're asking everybody to bring them in, not just certain households. And that may be a very simple way to get a large number of pets at a single site on a Saturday morning, rather than trying to hit up these multiple things and putting it out publicity. But we can talk more about that individually.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: So.

[R9592-59] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, Claremont (mayor: 'Yes, Mr. McNutt' [100] and 'Mr. McNut | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Yes, Mr. McNutt.
TEXT> I was going to ask, since this is becoming an actual student project for Isabella this year, and could any curriculum that Chua develops from this be shared with  saw six schools so that,  in the future,  the future scientists from  our school district could be forced multipliers and doing even more research?
NEXT> Mike: Sure, absolutely. Yeah, we can do that. Be happy to share that.

[R9592-84] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: But to go online, and I'm not saying this because we are getting a low grade, if you will, but I'm not confident that that low grade represents what is truly happening in our district, where we've been, where we are and where we're going.
TEXT> And that that could have a major impact not only on our school district and students, but also  clearly on the community. And to draw in, I remember guys  seven years ago said to me,  one of the Achilles heels with making progress,  in his view, was the school district, the perception of the school district.  And I'm not pointing fingers to anyone. I'm just saying what he had been told by businesses potentially coming in.  So that being said, I'm very, very interested in  a collaborative effort to  establish a plan where we can have ongoing, consistent and even regularly scheduled communication venues. Charlene, when you used to be on the school board once a week, you would write an article. And I know people every week looked for that article. It was a way of providing information about the schools. And I think you told me when you stopped doing it, when you left the board, school board and stopped doing it, people. Why why is it no longer there? Because people were really interested in having that access.  So I,  I'm  all I'm all for it. I'm all for it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: With all due respect you know social media is a great venue. But social media also can unintentionally provide a great deal of misinformation. And if we're relying on social

[R9592-102] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Mary Woodman: With.
TEXT> An assessment that is not going to necessarily be mandated. It's still a work in progress. It's still a work in progress with a new commissioner and a new vision.  But it's, but, you know, I when you talk about using using one data point, a one measure is really invalid. But if you have a let's say we have a grade eight assessment, a standardized assessment for grade eight students, and you have a young boy or girl that has a sixth grade reading level in grade eight. You know, they're going to be challenged with that assessment. However, if we can also show another data point that shows that over the course of the year, this sixth grade child in a grade A class has shown growth of a year or a year and quarter. That's very positive. They're not going to make up three years in one year, but they're showing growth. And oftentimes that growth factor  is not evident if we rely on these standardized assessments. I mean, accountability and public education nationwide is here to stay. And that's okay. But I think it's important that how we measure what we're doing  shows the true picture.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So don't you think that makes it even more a, a, a collective, focused effort to create an accurate. And, I mean, I'm not trying to put a rose color

[R9592-114] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont (presides over the council side; city manager: 'Tha | 2018-01-30
PREV> Alex Herzog: that was a concern. That was a question I had to the president of the college at the time. Tell me about the schools. Tell me, tell me what we're what the plan is there. And I'm sure other parents are doing the same thing.
TEXT> Well, I had someone tell me today, a  prominent business person in the community who said, you know, when we moved here recently, we don't have kids. So looking at the school system wasn't an issue. Their kids are all grown up, but I don't know what my decision would have been had I looked at the schools, because what you see on site is not stellar on what I say on site, I mean online, but, So I don't want to I like to get a consensus because we have a lot of other things to talk about, unless people want to talk about this more. But going around the room, is there a consensus that we should be focusing on this as a community wide priority? Because I personally don't think we're going to grow the way we need to grow.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think there are there are different aspects to it. And like Miss Kerr said, there's low hanging fruit there. There. There's dealing with some of the data points that

[R9592-132] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (mayor: 'in response to what miss Pierce | 2018-01-30
PREV> Michelle Pierce: sent as a tag through the email, hey, if you are interested, radar school, whether it is positive or negative, because you know, we still have to accept and look at the negative to we can't just push out the and have everything be positive.
TEXT> So we have to dress both sides of it. But I think it would be seen, you know, as from the city website, is a more legitimate when  a student is writing a report about their school or their experience, whether graduated or not, when you go to the city site, because that's more of a that's not social media, that's that's our official website to our to our to our city, our home. So that that's like, I don't know how you call it, but.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Doctor.

[R9592-135] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Alex Herzog: surveys, but maybe we need to get that data point other than, you know, coming in and saying, I get frustrated when I just like, well, the people here are saying this. What people? How many is it? Just two that we're talking about. Right.
TEXT> Or if I may, we, we  passed a summer, we implemented a five year action plan, and working with the Nelly May Foundation with a grant, we were able to able to reach out and gather data from community members regarding Claremont and regarding the school district. I'm not saying, Alex, that we've already done it, but we have a good chunk of data that has helped us develop  where we are in a five year strategic action plan  as well as our priorities. But community engagement is a critical piece here,  and students want engagement, and the students wish to make a presentation to the school board. About the Claremont School District. I'm talking about the the student voice of Steven's high school. But we also, are looking forward to expanding the, the, this engagement protocol. We, we we've been doing this with our strategic action plan. We're going to have a parent forum within a month  to talk about head lice, of all things. But we have a head lice policy, and we have some parents who are concerned  regarding this matter and how we deal with it  through policy. So we're going to have a forum where the nurses, myself and administration will have the opportunity to have a give and take, and we'll report back.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The school district can't go forward if it's disconnected from the community. That connectivity is critical. And so I hope this communication will will invite two way communication. It's not

[R9592-172] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (mayor: 'Councilor Pope' [190, 269, 360]; sup | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: if you could do anything you wanted to achieve this outcome, what would you do? I don't know, it's just an idea, but I think we've got good brain power in this. In this school, they're getting, awards, national awards. So why not use it?
TEXT> I think we'd have some great opportunity to take photography students, media students, and.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: They.

[R9592-176] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (mayor: 'Councilor Pope' [190, 269, 360]; sup | 2018-01-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: Submit it to Valley News or Eagle Times.
TEXT> And, I mean, we have some wonderful students that could do this through their schooling.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So does this do you need any more direction from us at this point in time?

[R9592-179] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont (presides over the council side; city manager: 'Tha | 2018-01-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: with with a plan and perhaps with some questions. And I think finances are going to be a part of this as well. But that's, that's okay, because we're going to invest. And I think the return on the investment will certainly make it worthwhile.
TEXT> Every time you get an out of district student to come and see how much is that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Put a good amount of money.

[R9592-201] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (mayor: 'in response to what miss Pierce | 2018-01-30
PREV> Brian Rapp: family member to come in and say, well, no, we'll take care of him. And off they go. And it's, it's a it's a serious problem. And I don't know what we could do here, but that's something we need to we should look at.
TEXT> There are several things that are starting to amp up around town that are helpful. Remix for one is is a super supportive,  and the connect next to it connects center, I believe. Yeah.  Are also really valuable.  You know, even really going out and looking for people who have been in the situations that could help out or helping get areas to go have groups. You know, I'd be willing to sit down, you know, once a week and, and have people come to a group that has to deal with, you know, multiple level things. Drug addiction, children in jail.  You know, raising your grandchildren. I mean, there's lots of things, you know, we had a public space to do that. You know, even people who've been through it or going through it could could support other people. And that's kind of how you start supporting and building your community. Is is down, down in the trenches and  kind of working your way up and bringing people out and getting them to talk, because talking is healing.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So are you in response to what miss Pierce was saying is, what are the issues within the school district as far as mental health or so? I don't have

[R9592-208] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (mayor: 'Councilor Pope' [190, 269, 360]; sup | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Councilor Pope.
TEXT> Yeah, I would agree with a lot of what was just said there because, I just I want to speak from my other hat that I have in the Claremont School District, have to be a little bit careful as to how I speak, but, the superintendent brought forth a lot of real good points. But I also want to bring out another thing is that the mental health and emotional health issue is not just a socioeconomic thing, right? Families in crisis, challenging things, drug abuse. Over the years, I've dealt with various crisis counselors on things such as students you wouldn't imagine being affected by suicides,  auto accidents with the loss of student life. Those cross all socioeconomic  boundaries. So I just want to make sure that as we look at this, we don't think of this as just a poverty issue. We think of this as an entire top to bottom, from the top student to the most kid who's about last in the class kind of thing, that this covers all students. And so I just want to make sure we just don't get the misconception on the.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Right hand it.

[R9592-214] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, Claremont (mayor: 'Yes, Mr. McNutt' [100] and 'Mr. McNut | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So your comment, if I understand you correctly, is your focus to be, to follow Mrs. Zulus comment about being specific and selective? You're saying focusing on housing would impact mental health in a positive respect?
TEXT> Absolutely. For both the city and the school district. I mean,  what? Last year we watched a video about homelessness, and many of the stories were from younger people that found themselves homeless. They were too young to have probably brought about the situations to cause their homelessness, but they are the ones that are impacted by it and it impacted their their school academic work. It's impacted their growth as they develop into people. These are some of the traumatic instances that Councilor Pope was talking about, as well as some of the chronic situations  that, you know, school board member Pierce was talking about. So if we're able to get people into a housing situation that they feel safe and supported and more secure and that that will in turn over time, especially if those if those people have children in our school system, that will lead to better students in our school system.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Better outcomes.

[R9592-230] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: there's going to be a cost to find the facility and get a facility educationally ready, but I think getting them back would be a great thing. So I don't know if the retreat could also provide other services by having that location in town.
TEXT> So I if I may it's it's it's been a four year journey attempting to find a local residence  and converted into a an on site school  for Claremont children who are not being successful in our public school setting, but do deserve and must have and will have an education.  And because we don't have an on site facility or setting or school, we have to transport them out of town, which is not our best option, but it is our only option because we can't meet their needs on site. And if you recall three years ago, the yellow home or house besides Steven's high school, we had an architect come in. We had plans to make it accessible, to make it a school. And then the price just went out of control. Just, just. Just went  up off the off to the sky.  And so we have Corey LeClaire working with others has gone to several different residences.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But what stops us is and it's not the Claremont issue, it's it's the enforcement code enforcement to make a building a school, certain things architecturally need to be in

[R9592-240] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - chair: 'Oh, Frank. Were you | 2018-01-30
PREV> Unidentified: is it's the tax rate that's keeping a lot of people out of this town. And if we can bring these kids back in, it'll lower our school budget, which will go over our tax rate. And I really think that is a major priority.
TEXT> And also tuition kids into Claremont, that maybe placement.
NEXT> Unidentified: Outside revenue to decrease the tax rate.

[R9592-244] Unidentified | Unidentified City Councilor (single question to the superintendent [41 | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So I thought counselors.
TEXT> For the superintendent, what are the actual numbers of students that currently are being placed outside the district?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's two, right? Two that we're paying tuition for a district and then there's two more, but I can't remember if that's.

[R9592-251] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (mayor: 'in response to what miss Pierce | 2018-01-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: benefit for the community, but it's a better way of having children receive an education that they don't have to travel an hour, an hour one way or half an hour one way and be off site versus to be educated in their own home.
TEXT> So one child, perhaps, that went to keen to a special place in Keene, and the parent or whoever drove them would be a reimbursement. It could be up to 600 and something dollars per week that that person is reimbursed. And that's one person, one transportation. So I guess there's a lot of there's there's a lot in that that you have to look at number wise, because all of that could be brought back here  and all of that could be saved so much more here. If you saw the disconnect from there. And it's hard, you know, it's hard for anybody to.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: System enjoy salmon and then counselor.

[R9592-253] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (mayor: 'Councilor Pope' [190, 269, 360]; sup | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: System enjoy salmon and then counselor.
TEXT> Yeah just a question for Middleton. You're talking really day students correct. Not the residential.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Oh no I'm not talking residential. We're not talking about children living and spending the night. We're talking about day students, okay. And when we were looking at that. Sure,

[R9592-275] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont (presides over the council side; city manager: 'Tha | 2018-01-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: well? My goal is to expand that and so maximize the use of this facility and to benefit a larger group of young men and young women. So that so I that that's the vision. That's the vision. And, That's where we want to go.
TEXT> So when you come back with figures for this April 17th, with regard to, a facility where you can have children educated here rather than out of district the day students, could you also in your analysis address, the people that would be needed to staff that do we I mean, sometimes that's the shortage issue. Those type of people.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Wasn't Brattleboro. I think part of.

[R9592-294] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (mayor: 'Councilor Pope' [190, 269, 360]; sup | 2018-01-30
PREV> Scott Pope: were of course brought up. And when I hear about let's start at other task force on workforce development, I almost want to scream, to be honest with you, because we've had task force since 1995 and right on through just a few weeks ago.
TEXT> And I think that the workforce development now comes to the place of how does the city actually implement a plan? How do we find the trainers? How do we leverage a facility such as we have now?  How do we leverage the college to create on site training programs?  How do we leverage grants? And this is where a lot of the stuff goes in for which are out there  for onsite training, for college programs. But I'm going to add another level because it always seems to be forgotten.  How do we actually leverage grants beyond the Perkins grant  for at the high school level? Because the high school students  are the feeder programs to everything else the apprenticeships, the college programs, the whole bit. People like her grandson who's working in agriculture and also in my shop, things like that. That's the feeder program that starts here. So how do we leverage these things towards workforce development? How do we leverage a new person who's coming into town, maybe looking at this idea of living in Claremont, maybe settling down, doing some additional workforce development, becoming more valuable to a company or a person who's incumbent at a company who wants to, which means they're already hired.
NEXT> Scott Pope: They're wants to grow their career skills. How do we develop those kind of programs? So I'm not just talking about task force. Again, I'm talking about implementing. And that

[R9592-295] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (mayor: 'Councilor Pope' [190, 269, 360]; sup | 2018-01-30
PREV> Scott Pope: new person who's coming into town, maybe looking at this idea of living in Claremont, maybe settling down, doing some additional workforce development, becoming more valuable to a company or a person who's incumbent at a company who wants to, which means they're already hired.
TEXT> They're wants to grow their career skills. How do we develop those kind of programs? So I'm not just talking about task force. Again, I'm talking about implementing. And that needs to become something that the community and school district needs to do and champion championing what we have now. Because I can tell you, if you've probably had your furnace fixed in the last year by a local company, you probably had a student from this program come in and do it because the workforce has aged that much that now these students from the hack program are now some of the higher end workers in these. Age back facilities repair people. If you've gone to a machine shop, you'll see them from my program eight to brag. But that's true. So I have to say that the same thing, you start hitting some subcontractors, even people who didn't go into the fields, who are highly successful entrepreneurs, self-employed, have learned some really great skills here. So how do we leverage this to actually start growing our economy and leverage our things at the college?
NEXT> Scott Pope: I think that's going to be critical because we can talk about the Zillow effect. We can talk about all the stuff we talked about earlier, but unless we start

[R9602-4] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (moderator asks 'Chairman ... Frank Sprag | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Doctor. You have a good point. I'd like to now ask Jared of the Claremont, Frank Sprague, to introduce the school board and the school board. District office.
TEXT> I'll come up here. Okay. Starting next to Mr.. A good one with the  doctor next to him. Vice chair. Rebecca. Next to her is Bonnie Rat. Next to him by Peter Michelle Pierce. Next. And on the Empress, Eric. And then Frank spray and Mary Whitman, who's our school board. And high policy. And let's let's. Yes, Lexi. Brenda, our  student athletes. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you, Chairman Sprague. One of the handouts available to you this evening session. Introduction to the procedures. I hope you can read. I want you to do that. These

[R9602-13] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of the warrant articles, it's about money and it's about impacting the school district. And the Claremont School Board unanimously approved this bill. And this is why it fully implemented building a severe drawdown of school funds designated for public school to nonpublic school entities.
TEXT> I very much support the parents and their right to choose how their child will be educated and an advocate of school choice. I'm not an advocate. That funding is drawn from public education funds to pay for them, and that's what Senate Bill 193 is about. This is going to be decided upon this spring by some of the budget. The budget on January 3rd, 2018, was approved  by the majority of the school board, $31,148,257. However, it's important to note that there were several changes and some reductions that occurred to reach this point. And so I would like to discuss what these represent. You see a series of different items athletics, fuel, supplies, textbooks, personnel, technology, transportation, maintenance, repairs than others. What, at $1.7 million. But I would like to just explain what that represents in a very brief and I hope, condensed way, because it's much more than just numbers. And before I do the the board recognized that their effort to keep the taxes down, the majority of the board, that was their effort and that's their right to do so. They did not want to do the 307 000  collective bargaining agreement with the teachers in the budget. So in order to put it into the budget, we have to withdraw an additional $307,000. So the budget really was reduced more than $2 million.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That being said, let's talk about what is being impacted in that place. The $20,000 to prevent letter uniforms, field preparation, police, referees for fuel, woodchips versus wood pellets. The

[R9602-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: can defer our rules, but reaching the point where the deferring is no longer viable, as you have buckets and classrooms and I'm not being consistent with the we've had buckets in classrooms over the past few years or so for schools when it rains.
TEXT> So the main budget, $0.47 per 1000 reduction, the budget, if anyone voted for it, did that prevail? Security upgrades. Because we had security  in our budget last year, there's no impact on the tax rate unless you were not to approve article three school bus replacement. Once again, that the sixth increase and the roof repairs 0%. So as of today, $0.41 per 1000 reduction. But there's some revenue we need to talk about. In 2015, the Claremont School District implemented full day kindergarten and recently with the King of Garden chemo funding public education to encourage districts to bring into full day kindergarten.  Because we already had, we immediately received additional revenue from $159,000, impacting the tax rate $0.23 per 1000 negative. So we have some students from other communities next year in coming to Stevens High School. We anticipate revenue of about 50,000 is $0.07. So things are looking pretty good as far as revenues concerned. But if you remember a few minutes ago I talked about the downshifting of the state, the state several years ago, probably the level of playing field had something called advocacy.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And now the state has notified all districts. We are going to be continually decreasing that amount year after year to year until the zero. So when 10 million, approximately

[R9602-21] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: 50,000 is $0.07. So things are looking pretty good as far as revenues concerned. But if you remember a few minutes ago I talked about the downshifting of the state, the state several years ago, probably the level of playing field had something called advocacy.
TEXT> And now the state has notified all districts. We are going to be continually decreasing that amount year after year to year until the zero. So when 10 million, approximately $10 million figure that Claremont received is now Mr.. Fourth year, I believe  we are reducing. So we have a reduction of $264,000 because the state is down shifting this and saying cannot afford to maintain this adequacy, gain or state aid, the impact could be $0.08 per 1000 increase. The important part is that this estimated state aid reduction, if it continues, is going to go on for another 20 some odd years, and every year must be an enormous influx of students. This revenue reduction is going to continue. So it's very frustrating for me to see revenue reducing and to see a catch rate go up. And the school district didn't cause it. But that's how things are going. Whether it isn't the revenue in the state to sustain what the state at one time said they were the same. So doing the math, instead of having a 70 $0.01 per thousand reduction, which as of today it's $0.33 per thousand, with the reductions and with the reallocation and the changes that we made in the budget to reduce the budget over $2 million.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So let me just wrap up by saying, here's the budget. If I do it over past several years, 9% increase, 1% increase. Here's the walking 5.8. The whopping 5.8

[R9602-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: same. So doing the math, instead of having a 70 $0.01 per thousand reduction, which as of today it's $0.33 per thousand, with the reductions and with the reallocation and the changes that we made in the budget to reduce the budget over $2 million.
TEXT> So let me just wrap up by saying, here's the budget.  If I do it over past several years, 9% increase, 1% increase. Here's the walking 5.8. The whopping 5.8 came from the Stevens High School renovation party. We could have saved a lot of money by not proving the renovation project, but this high school with the president and I can tell you that walking through this school today and walking through the school pre renovations, two different worlds, you see the students, you see it in the staff and it's for the community. If we do the math again and look at the past seven years, the average growth has been 1.34%. If we would look at Stevens High School and let's look at the renovation, which was essential to have a high school not be accredited  to drop cloud over the school, if not, not good for the  the economy is not good for the community. It is always a question what's going on because they don't have an accredited nation. Let's say that by a 5.8% was 2%. Let us say that the Stevens High School project has not been successful. In March 2013, the average increase would have been about 8/10 of a percent every year.  So I hope  what I'm trying to say here this evening is that the budget has not been an upward spiral.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And with the reduction of state aid and with fixed cost increases, we're still able to maintain ourselves as well. That still doesn't deal with the dilemma of taxes. And

[R9602-32] Lois Cahill | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified, ASR 'Lois Cahill or two' [1 | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against this amendment, I see no one. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this amendment.
TEXT> Lois Cahill or two. I support this amendment to increase the school budget in order to retain jobs in the central programing for our school community and to meet the needs of Vermont students. The way we have been doing business is shortsighted. Year after year, we have seen teachers leave the district because their jobs have been eliminated, or because the threat that their jobs were on the chopping block, so to speak. These are individuals who took their talents to other communities. They are people who could have stayed in Claremont, professionals  who could have bought here to increase the tax base. They are people who wanted to stay in Claremont and become part of the fabric of our community. We must remember  that we are all neighbors with the same goals, to grow a vibrant community and to have quality sports, we need to stand together as neighbors and believe that we deserve both of those events.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: There are so many aspects of our community to be proud of, and instead of stagnating together, we can create a vision of Claremont that will thrive again. Thank you.

[R9602-42] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (a commenter asks to hear from the adm | 2018-02-08
PREV> Cory LeClair: certified for their position as they walk in the door, because they may have come from a different, related career path that has skills that can be applied to teaching. They don't have a teaching certificate specifically yet, but there are alternative pathways for that.
TEXT> And we have many, many teachers who choose that pathway. But there's a certain amount of oversight required in order for that to to happen effectively at the elementary level.  We do have one teaching position on the Cutlass, and that's based on current enrollment.  However, over the last several years, we've had to actually reinstate or add back in positions because enrollment numbers change and needs change. And so it is currently okay  to take that position out of the budget. But there's a lot of times between now and September. So if that ends up being reinstated at one elementary school, but a different one now we're cutting from other areas to make that happen. The positions at the high school there, through teaching positions at the high school, one of them is currently vacant. The other one is an English position that based on saturation reports. So which is essentially enrollment figures for those particular classes that are not, with full teaching loads right now.  But we've also pared back our program of studies  in order to,  which which effectively reduces the number of different opportunities we  can have. So they may not have as many choices in their English pathway as they used to have. So we are limiting the scope of, of students, choice and type of study that they had while still meeting the state requirements,  I  believe, off the top of my head, those are instructional positions that fully answered questions.
NEXT> Unidentified: Earlier this.

[R9602-54] George | Public commenter (first name from the next speaker's 'echo the sentime | 2018-02-08
PREV> George: of the business at eight years in this ward. I think I know a little bit. What you go through here is not different than any other district. It's just more profound because Claremont's been through so much and we've lost so many good jobs.
TEXT> But again, you can't ask the students today to pay for guarantees that were made in the past.  And I've got a second distinct advantage. And the stuff that you teaching in these schools, you do not want to cut these positions. You do not want to do anything to perfection of diamonds. Believe me, the good kids. But you've got to support your ones and what little money you're given. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: For or against this.

[R9602-60] Unidentified | Unidentified - short remarks and name calls from several voices | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone else wishing to speak?
TEXT> I want to speak. Into  Ward one. I have the Stevens in 2005, before a lot of these cuts were made and there was more staff.  So it's not that we want to increase it beyond what it was, but we want it back to the quality that we had before. Isn't that right? My neighbor across the street has lived there since before her kids were born, at least 15 years, and now she's considering moving out of Claremont just so that her son doesn't have to go to Stevens. And I don't think that's right,  because her son is a huge drama nerd. Probably more on the table.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you.

[R9602-69] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 1, district staff member (ASR 'Amelia Ryan for  | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: the floor. That amendment will be voted on. And then if it fails or if it passes, then another. Anyone else wishing to speak or against this amendment? I'm going to. I'm sorry I didn't see you. That's okay. I'll go next, I call it.
TEXT> Amelia Ryan for one a little more. First of all, thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is Mary  and I live in the work. I'm lucky enough to be part of the staff, as I am one of those young adults that the community is like. They're not Covid and I'm working professional who is ready to put down roots and stay for a while. I love this town and the people in it. When I first moved here two years ago, it was a little scary. Moved to a place where I know one for a job that I was unaware of a workout. However,  this town hall meeting open arms. Even though I'm not a  local, I am not part of the oldest one oldest online social in the country, which is still my favorite part about this town. Okay. A few years later, I can't imagine raising my future children not having for a long time children anywhere else.  However, I might start managing that.  Luckily, my job is not one of the ones that budget. However, these cuts do go through and our  district started out with Dark path. I am which will look like. Yes, without the increase, the proposed increase.
NEXT> Unidentified: And this is a budget to work with. I have no fear. We will continue to educate it from requirement. That's great. We'll talk about as we have been doing.

[R9602-73] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, arguing taxes deter young families [198-202] | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: city over the last 10 to 12 years, and we haven't seen a lot of growth. What we haven't seen is a lot of young families coming in here. And I think that the reason that's happening is not because of the level of education.
TEXT> I think it is due to the taxes. I've had an opt in, a PTA  vote. I work with a Dartmouth who were looking for a home and a place to start, and I offered up Claremont and they all looked at it and said, I can get a house better and better location for less access. It's the truth. It's not. I mean, it's the truth.  So we've taken the time and we built our infrastructure. We have the  mill buildings are doing well. Red rivers doing nominal, great restaurants in town. Now we've got businesses like Whalen that are  increasing their productivity. And their employment problem that we're having is we're not getting young families in the area. My dad is also  in 2015, and she got a lot of education in Stevens High School. She wants to be a police officer here in Claremont. She's talked about it all the time. She currently is a corrections officer in Springfield, Vermont. And the reason that she's looking into her field is because of our taxes. So what I'm suggesting, and we have a lot of kids that are in their early 20s or late 20s. They live with their parents in Claremont right now.
NEXT> Unidentified: And it's not because they don't have a job and they're not productive. They can't afford to buy a house. So the question is, you know, is it time to

[R9602-155] Jason Benware | Ward 1 resident and school board candidate, elected 3/13/2018 (self-id | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this article?
TEXT> I don't think it's off. Jason Ben Ward one I don't think it's often that we get the opportunity to access funds. There's only a 40% investment  with the crazy things that are going on in the world right now. In our country, especially,  seen a lot of things happen to schools over the last decade. I believe that some of that money would probably go to having,  I don't think maybe all of our schools do, but having the the buzz in entries and all the doors in schools, having  cameras available at the entrances to know who's entering your school,  I'm not necessarily sure if all of the fears of a kid sneaking in a machine gun in their trombone case are necessarily what we think about, but  a disgruntled, this strange father or mother for that matter, coming into the school.  That could be something that does happen. And  for the $141,000 we could spend, we'd have a lot of peace of mind for all the schools in this area. And one of the things that people want to feel is safe when they're feeling of school. And I think this will give them that peace of mind for a relatively small and investment. So I'm in favor of that.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against this article?

[R9602-168] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (moderator asks 'Chairman ... Frank Sprag | 2018-02-08
PREV> Josh Malloy: Over here.
TEXT> To having cameras in the school. It's not just external threats.  There is a climate and culture piece to having cameras in the schools, such as the cafeteria,  sitting down and interviewing students after an incident takes place takes on a whole different, meaning and  efficiency if it's all on film. So rather than say, she said it's been filmed, that makes a big difference as far as the efficiency of system principals, maintaining the safe and order environment and the students who are here and the interactions with each other. So they work this from the cultural climate. One of you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak against this article? Is there anyone wishing to speak against this article? I have to let everyone have a chance for us before you

[R9631-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: A motion to. Approve the agenda as under.
TEXT> And a second. Sorry. Okay. Thank you. All those in favor? Aye.  All right. The student reps report Lexi.
NEXT> Unidentified: Awesome.

[R9631-25] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Awesome.
TEXT> So the Stevens, high school life, school students have been learning a unit on hair health. So some students visited the cosmetology program at the Newport extension of the tech center today. At this visit. At this visit, the students listened to a presentation given by the cosmetology students within this information. Yeah. Informative presentation. The students talked about the various aspects of hair science and the life skills. Students were also taught various ways to get care for their very own hair.  After the cosmetology students were done presenting, they treated the life skills students to shampoos and even some hair styling. The life skills students and staff at Stevens want to thank Miss Hodge and her cosmetology students for everything today. Miss Larissa Cahill, the theater director at Stevens, has casted and began began running rehearsals with this year's Senior Play cast. This year's show was titled Mutually Assured Destruction.  I am beyond honored to be a part of this, and I'm so excited because I've been looking forward to this since freshman year, so I'm very excited.  Also in Miss Cahill, in this class,  musical theater class, we are auditioning for roles this week and cannot wait to perform this year's musical, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory again.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: I'm so excited about this one, too. The juniors, sophomores, and freshmen have all started picking up their classes for the next school year. Thank you to all of the

[R9631-26] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-02-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: I've been looking forward to this since freshman year, so I'm very excited. Also in Miss Cahill, in this class, musical theater class, we are auditioning for roles this week and cannot wait to perform this year's musical, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory again.
TEXT> I'm so excited about this one, too. The juniors, sophomores, and freshmen have all started picking up their classes for the next school year. Thank you to all of the parents, teachers, other staff members, and guidance counselors for all your hard work during this hectic time of year. I remember doing this for four times and I do not miss it at all because it is. You want to rip your hair out at the end, so I know everyone's going through, but sadly bittersweet. I don't have to do it ever again for Stevens High School.  This Saturday, February 24th, is the Stevens High School annual Student Council Winter formal. This year's theme is Winter Narnia. So a preschool update. This preschool? Yeah. The preschool was awarded a $5,000 gift from the Jack and Dorothy, Byrne Foundation, which you'll be talking about. Doctor Goodwin.  This money will be used to enhance the accessibility and safety of the playground. The staff and students at the preschool extend a huge thank you to the Jack and Dorothy Burns Foundation for this generous gift.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Dessner. Joannie McCusker one. Dessner. Elementary schools national geography bee. Congratulations, Joanie. The Desert Chorus traveled to Elmwood Nursing Home on Thursday, February 15th to share their smiles and wonderful

[R9631-27] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-02-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: Foundation, which you'll be talking about. Doctor Goodwin. This money will be used to enhance the accessibility and safety of the playground. The staff and students at the preschool extend a huge thank you to the Jack and Dorothy Burns Foundation for this generous gift.
TEXT> Dessner. Joannie McCusker one. Dessner. Elementary schools national geography bee. Congratulations, Joanie. The Desert Chorus traveled to Elmwood Nursing Home on Thursday, February 15th to share their smiles and wonderful singing talents with the the residents there. Of course, they received rave reviews and were asked to go there again. The 100th day of school was Friday, February 16th. It's really hard to think about because it's my senior year, so only 80 more days to go from there on out. But the Desert Elementary staff and students celebrated with students in all areas of their of their day. This included areas of math, writing, reading, social studies, science, technology, library, physical education, and even art. A huge thank he goes out to the staff at Disney for making this a great day, and one to remember. As part of this 100th day of school event, the students and staff at Dessner had contributed to Claremont's amazing community by sending a goal to bring in 100 funds that would be later brought to and donated to the local soup kitchen here. They had a second goal to create 100 notes of cheer and good wishes for the residents of our local nursing homes. The staff know how important it is to help remind students that they, too, are a part of our large community. In doing so, the students at Dessner feel immensely proud of themselves and all that they do to help others.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: The students at Disney are eagerly are eagerly watching for their name and the eye ready hollow fame. As each student reaches a various level of past lessons, they are

[R9631-28] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-02-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: our local nursing homes. The staff know how important it is to help remind students that they, too, are a part of our large community. In doing so, the students at Dessner feel immensely proud of themselves and all that they do to help others.
TEXT> The students at Disney are eagerly are eagerly watching for their name and the eye ready hollow fame. As each student reaches a various level of past lessons, they are able to join the Hall of Fame. This helps them to work towards their individual personal goals. Here's a sports update. Girls varsity basketball won against Hillsboro Daring High School with a score of 45 to 25 on February 2nd. The girls also won their game against Newport High School with a score of 42 to 40 on February 16th. Girls JV basketball team also won against Hillsboro Deering High School on February 2nd, with a score of 47 to 13. They won their game against Newport High School as well on February 16th, with a score of 54 to 26. Boys varsity basketball won against Hillsboro during Deering High School with a score of 43 to 27. On February 2nd, they won against Fall Mountain Regional High School with a close score of 38 to 37. On February 5th, the boys won against Cornwall Regional High School February 16th with a score of 50 to 44. Boys JV basketball won against Fall Mountain Regional High School on February 6th, with a final score of 51 to 31.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: They also won against Guam Regional High School with a score of 48 to 44. On February 15th, girls varsity hockey won on February 1st against Keene High School with

[R9631-30] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: Boys varsity hockey won against Kearsarge High School with a score of 810 to 3 on February 8th, and the coed unified varsity basketball team won against Newport High School with a score of 36 to 28. On January 22nd. And that concludes my report.
TEXT> Thank you. Very nice superintendent. Thank you. Thank you and good evening. One week ago today, our nation was or was rocked by some horrific  behavior and killings of students in Florida.  I don't think any teacher, superintendent, principal, parent, student, all of us, all of us felt the impact of that. And, and I just want to reassure the community that the vigilance that has been going on in our schools continues. Perhaps it's even been more heightened.  These clearly, though, are troubled times. And perhaps there'll be some some change coming down the lane as a result of this. But what hasn't changed, though, is the vigilance. And what hasn't changed is our commitment to the security of everyone in the school community, as well as in the,  in our community itself. In front of you, there is a pink sheet of paper. This is a copy of a protocol that's posted in every one of our classrooms. This is a user friendly, resource that comes from our emergency operation plan. We are currently in the process of revising our emergency operation plan. It's about 130 pages.  But clearly, you're not going to have 130 page document in every teacher's hands.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But the training and the routines that we follow and in particular. Lockdown, are part of our protocol. We are also submitting an update of the emergency operation plan, working

[R9631-43] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: my eyes because that was so it felt feels like years ago now, which it is, but it just feels like a lifetime ago. So that's really cool that like, you all are still doing that. So that just really warms my heart. So yeah.
TEXT> Well, for all the conflict managers and students in the elementary schools, look at Lexie Grenier and say, okay, that's what I'm doing this for.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right? Okay. Well, we'll go back to it after this. I was just.

[R9631-47] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a violation of of the state statute. So there will be a gathering at Lebanon High School at 330 on February 28th. Protest sharing and concerns about the current bill. Allowing weapons on school property. That's what I know of. But Lexie or Pat me.
TEXT> Okay. So March 14th. Okay. March 14th. Miss Barry actually emailed the student voice group about this last night. March 14th is what? What's the group?
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm not. It's, It's. The Women's March is one of the groups that sent out.

[R9631-49] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: I'm not. It's, It's. The Women's March is one of the groups that sent out.
TEXT> Yeah, well, the Women's March, which you've all heard of the Women's March. So the Women's March sent out a, kind of like. A proposal. Pretty much. Right. Proposal.  Saying, like, inviting, any students? I would like to walk out for 17 minutes in honor of the 17 students that passed last, last week. So we are thinking about  engaging in that, but we're trying to figure out all the logistics right now. But so yeah, hopefully. So March 14th. Yeah.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, for me as an individual, you have my full support and.

[R9631-82] Jessica Sawyer | Public commenter, Mulberry Street (self-identified 'Jessica Sawyer' [1 | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> My daughter has experienced several incidents involving bullying of some sort over the last two years. All of these incidents have occurred at Claremont Middle School. All of them have involved both students and staff at CMS. All of these incidents have been reported to the vice principal, the principal of the school, and some of them have been reported to the superintendent. In the beginning, my daughter was called names and repeatedly belittled by a fellow student. By the end of the first year, my daughter was made to feel less than human. She wanted to hurt herself, so she began therapy and was put on medication. The school was informed every single time, over and over again. The former vice principal continually informed my daughter that it was similar to Chinese water torture, but refused to get a handle on the situation. One drop of water alone was next to nothing easily forgotten, but over time these continuous drops of water could and would drill their way through the toughest of stones.
NEXT> Jessica Sawyer: That was the comparison made by the vice principal about the situation my daughter was in. My daughter was verbally victimized over and over again and the staff at CMS

[R9631-83] Jessica Sawyer | Public commenter, Mulberry Street (self-identified 'Jessica Sawyer' [1 | 2018-02-21
PREV> Jessica Sawyer: was similar to Chinese water torture, but refused to get a handle on the situation. One drop of water alone was next to nothing easily forgotten, but over time these continuous drops of water could and would drill their way through the toughest of stones.
TEXT> That was the comparison made by the vice principal about the situation my daughter was in. My daughter was verbally victimized over and over again and the staff at CMS did nothing. It was not a one time event. It happened over and over again over the course of the entire 1617 school year. It was almost a daily occurrence. The superintendent was informed about the situation in February of last year, and the final outcome had the student removed in May. Why did my daughter have to suffer for the entire school year? Why did it take almost eight months to handle the situation? Now, as the 1718 school year is in progress, it's happening all over again. This time another student and at least three members of the administration. This is again, this is not a one time event. It happens almost every day and it is reported every time that it happens. The student has been harassing my daughter since the beginning of this school year. It is progressed from name calling to verbal threats of bodily harm. The student has enlisted her male friends to harass my daughter as well. She's been threatened, shoved to her locker and had fruit thrown at her head. The current vice principal is continuing continuously telling my daughter that she's handling it.
NEXT> Jessica Sawyer: One letter has been sent home saying there was one incident. No follow up letters. No consequences. An RSA 193-F4. It clearly states that letters are to be sent home

[R9631-85] Jessica Sawyer | Public commenter, Mulberry Street (self-identified 'Jessica Sawyer' [1 | 2018-02-21
PREV> Jessica Sawyer: made every attempt to solve this the appropriate way. Her guidance counselor told her that it's just water in her or in her water. Sorry. My daughter said, what if there is too much oil? The counselors response was to say that. Then it'll overflow.
TEXT> No advice for the situation. No help in any way. Recently, a substitute teacher singled my daughter out. The class was told to be quiet. Okay, that's how it should be. The substitute then told them to shut up. She told them that the next person to talk would be put in a corner. My daughter said, why are we going to be treated like two year olds? Instead of sending her to guidelines or the office, she was sent to the corner. Her response was not 12. I'm 12, not two, but went to the corner anyways. She was then made to face the wall.  A fellow student was ill. She was breathing through her mouth. She was sent in the hall and yelled at. Another student was asked. Asked why they were getting yelled at for doing nothing wrong. That student was yelled at and sent to the office after being told to stop acting like the boss of everyone. The substitute teacher proceeded to tell the class while looking at my daughter, if this were back in my day, you people would have been paddled. As she was also looking at my daughter, she said, you people have no discipline or respect for others.
NEXT> Jessica Sawyer: My daughter started pacing the classroom and crying uncontrollably. The substitute was creating so many problems that a handful of students had to be, that another teacher walked into her

[R9631-87] Jessica Sawyer | Public commenter, Mulberry Street (self-identified 'Jessica Sawyer' [1 | 2018-02-21
PREV> Jessica Sawyer: hard time, why doesn't she use the resources given to her? Why is she still allowed to be at this or any school? She's doing more harm than good. On February 20th, my daughter was in gym class playing hockey with a group of friends.
TEXT> Well, my daughter's group was not playing. Another student hit the puck towards her. This student told my daughter, give me the puck or I will kill you. My daughter reported it immediately. Then she called me and said she wanted to come home because her bully threatened to kill her. This time, my husband and I went to the office of the SC to the office of C six. We were told to go straight to the police station. We had an officer go with us to  get our daughter. After speaking with the officer. A daughter wrote a statement. The officer asked the school to call to call in the other parents so they could have a conversation. The vice principal refused. She said that they would do their own internal investigation. Now the officer has to handle this as a criminal matter. My daughter fears for her safety at school. She loves learning, but is terrified to go to school because her bully told her that she would kill her. My daughter watches the news. She knows about all of the school shootings she's heard. She even heard about a person stabbing 24 people in a school.
NEXT> Jessica Sawyer: She now fears it's going to happen to her because the school has done nothing to protect her. So far, the incidents have progressed from name calling and teasing to

[R9631-99] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Just want to say.
TEXT> I can't go into details, obviously, because I can't discuss publicly about other students, but I can tell you very troubling what I've heard.  I've been working with Mr. and Mrs. Sawyer. I think we're well over a month. And continue to work with the administration. The issue is not resolved. The issue is not resolved,  but the issue will be resolved.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I remember. A while ago. Oh, sorry.

[R9631-101] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I remember. A while ago. Oh, sorry.
TEXT> No, I, I regret what they have said, but they have every right to say what they've said.  And and we've had several conversations and I can we'll continue to work with them and any other parent, any other student and the administration to to resolve this. I regret deeply that it continues.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm not sure what your timeline is on, the week for anti-bullying, but there is a, and I don't know if you want to wait till the fall, but October

[R9631-102] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting from [83]; superintende | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: but they have every right to say what they've said. And and we've had several conversations and I can we'll continue to work with them and any other parent, any other student and the administration to to resolve this. I regret deeply that it continues.
TEXT> I'm not sure what your timeline is on, the week for anti-bullying, but there is a,  and I don't know if you want to wait till the fall, but October is anti-bullying month, and it would be a great community service type project. To help coordinate that within the school. And, and it would coincide with what are going what's going on nationally. There's all kinds of ideas  around what that looks like in the different schools, people decorating doors and  rallies for kids. But I think that's a great idea that you've come up with. And, certainly a great community service opportunity for your daughter and a learning experience for the other kids. So I applaud you on that. That's a great idea.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Middleton I'm just wondering, I remember a while back we talked about forming a committee to start looking at some of the issues of bullying in the community. And where

[R9631-112] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: I was an elementary school writing about how why our favorite seasons were our favorite seasons, and trying to drop everything is just making me cry tonight. I'm sorry.
TEXT> All right, so last year, roughly around this time, we had one presentation in February, one in March, we separated, reading and math out from the writing data. And this year we've combined them to just be a little bit more succinct. This presentation, we're going to be focused on growth in March. We'll be circling back in two weeks and focus more on proficiency. So the difference between the two is growth is a measure of where a student started at the beginning of the year  and how much they have improved since that point to the midyear. Proficiency is a measure of where a student is relative to a predetermined benchmark, something that somebody else sets for them.  So tonight we're only focusing on. On. The growth. Piece of this. In 20 1718 we developed some. Goals related to academic achievements. This is the goal for the percentage of students who will meet their growth targets. So with the irony assessment we have,  we have an opportunity for every single individual child who takes the assessment to have a specified growth target of how much they should be able to grow based on where they entered in at the beginning of the year. So it's completely individualized. We have set growth targets, goals of the percent of students who will meet those growth targets in every area by level K to five, six through eight and nine through 12 for math, reading and writing.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And then with I already there are sort of what the analytics, the data analytics expect. To see happening. And I'll just kind of breeze through this quickly. Based on

[R9631-114] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: actually growing more than a year's worth of growth in a year's time. Our lowest is 22% in grade three. So almost a quarter of our kids in our lowest sample have already made a year's worth of growth in only half a year's time.
TEXT> Our middle school data, we again with our mid-year targets, the percent of students who have made those and our end of year targets percent of students who have made those. The yellow is 2018. The white is last year's data in our high school, and this chart looks a little bit different than the other ones. We changed our course of action at the high school level last year. We tested all ninth graders and all 10th graders in I ready with the block schedule that we have. That meant that some students were tested in math and in English language arts without having instruction in math and English language arts, and so there was seemingly a disconnect there between the assessment and the instruction that could be related to it. So this year, we changed course. Only those students enrolled in a math class or enrolled in an English language arts class were tested from the beginning of the year to the mid-year semester point. So they just have a pre post. They don't have the three data points that we typically have used K through eight as benchmarks. They only have the two data points essentially a pre and post and for the specific classes. So we did math skills algebra one and geometry. Typically your ninth and 10th graders. However you do end up with some upperclassmen in those classes. And then we did you'll see in a minute. You'll see English nine, in English ten.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So this is. The math data. And so in a mid year versus end of year on this particular measure, we're only talking about a semester's worth of instruction. Now,

[R9631-122] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: second semester. At the semester break in January, the students were tested as the pretest at the beginning of their semester of learning in either English or math, and they'll be tested at the end of the year, so we'll have that data to compare.
TEXT> Then we move on to writing. Our writing goals were in terms of growth, are related to students being able to make at least one level proficiency gain, based on the rubrics that they have. So the writing work that we've done has been more in house. It's been directed by our curriculum staff. It's been supported by a specialist, Amanda Aaron's, who we've worked with for at least 7 or 8 years, I believe, and helping to develop the writing curriculum. Our teachers have written the curriculum. They have created the assessments. They have been vetting them over the couple of years now,  and  we have pre and post common assessments that we use in every grade level. That's the samples you have in front of you. And we're able to demonstrate and measure student growth  from one level of proficiency to the next. So in kindergarten. I'll explain this. The green. Is the pre assessment. So prior to any instruction and the blue is the post assessment. And all of these next charts the green will always be praised. The blue will always be post assessment. So you'll see the green is sort of heavier on the left side, the below level, that  level and the at level.  And as instruction occurs there are more students in the  at level and above level than approaching and below.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so what you want to see in all of these is essentially, the, the beginning of the year being a downslope and the end of the year being an

[R9631-125] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: is. Around the conventions of English language. And common before. Across all English classes. Again, the percent of students who are in the proficient range on the on the right hand side of the screen, greater than the number of students who are not yet.
TEXT> Something that's challenging to report out on with writing in particular, is the fact that we don't give an overall writing grade to students. Writing is broken down into components, and different areas are scored depending on what type of writing it is. We also  don't give everybody argumentative writing the first part of the year.  Some grade levels start with argumentative or persuasive, some start with narrative, some start with, informational. So depending on the grade level, it's a different potentially a different type of writing. So to take all of that and try to report it out to you, it can be a little bit challenging. What we did is we decided that when looking through the rubrics that were scored in each of those types of writing at every grade level, everyone had  an element of of focus or organization to their writing on that rubric, regardless of the type. So the area that we pulled data on for you is all related to focus. Because all of the standards are so specific, it would not be very succinct and clear to be able to give a 1520 minute presentation in front of a school board on every single different area, for every grade level, for every type of writing. So we tried to pick something that was at least common across all of them, to be reflective of what students performance looks like.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And I think the other point to make is growth in this area does not necessarily mean proficiency for our kindergarten kiddos, for instance. And we'll talk more about this

[R9631-127] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: moved at least one proficiency level. So it might have been from a at grade level to above grade level, or it might have been from below grade level to at grade level. But they've moved at least one level. Here it is for and.
TEXT> Again nine through 12 is clustered together because they do the writing piece differently. At that. Great. And here is the percent of students proficient by grade. Late in the slide before it  is. We're a little bit all over the map. We have some grade levels as proficient as 91%. But other grade. Levels only in the 50% range. So there's a little bit of disparity there. And that's something that we are continuing to seek. Greater understanding of. Is it a curricular issue. Is it where they came in? Is it an instructional issue? What what are we looking at there to better be able to address what it is. So there's certainly variability based on grade level. So what I've asked principles to do is just be able to speak to how their building is responding to this information, how their buildings are responding to these data that I already data and math and English language arts and the writing data. So so it's basically the the answer to the question, so what now what we have this data, what are we doing about it.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so I've asked each of them to just give two minutes because there's several of them. And if they for five minutes we'll be here until midnight. And we

[R9631-129] Unidentified | Elementary school administrator reporting for the elementary schools o | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: midnight. And we don't want to do that. But just a quick two minute summary of so what now what what are you doing with this data and what does it mean for you at the building level, the instructional level. Whoever wants to start.
TEXT> So at the elementary level, looking at the math and reading data, what we are looking at are sort of the components of each of those. So, you know, within reading you'll be looking at things like phonemic awareness, vocabulary, reading comprehension, math, looking at number sense, you know, algebraic skills and geometry. So overall, looking at an overall weakness or where we see a deficit and, and if it's  sort of by grade level, then we address, address that, you know, in the instruction in the classroom. So have students working on those skills. But mostly what, what we did was we looked at the students who were not making that half years growth and looking at their areas of need, and then grouping those students according to that area of need for their intervention time. So if they are weak in vocabulary skills, that group will be working on vocabulary skills. And likewise in mathematics, if you're weak in geometry skills, you'll be working on those skills. Really for all three elementary schools. I want to talk to you a little bit about writing, and I can see Mr.. Mr. Frank Sprague's face just beaming because he and I have had many conversations about writing over the years. The nice part about the rubric format that we're using now is that the the way the data gets entered,  it generates a classroom rubric and individual student rubrics.
NEXT> Unidentified: And so then I, as a classroom teacher, can look for patterns in that classroom rubric in that in that moment I give that and I notice, boy, a lot

[R9631-132] Unidentified | Claremont Middle School administrator reporting on data use and interv | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: So if I ready is expecting the kids to be proficient in geometry in December and they're not teaching geometry until March, then do we need to adjust that? But also, we're using the data to adjust our wind groupings, which is our intervention block.
TEXT> And it's also, kind of making us look at what we're doing that during that intervention time, that wind block. Is it that the students need more time on the I ready component? You know, that they're doing their 45 minutes a week.  What do they need? Do they need more? Do they need well, obviously more. And also how are we grouping students? So we just finished we spent three staff meetings, working on our wind groupings to make sure that we're trying to tweak that as well. Teachers are also looking at their  data, their classroom assessments, you know, and  trying to determine, okay, what are we getting accurate data from I ready?  I think we are how do we adjust everything? I could go on. Is that enough? Okay. Yeah.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So, working with Amanda Ahrens, our English department. Has had a number of days being able to have access to her. And they've really been focusing on how to bring

[R9631-136] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So we're relatively new in the implementation of these assessments, but what it allows us to do is to be able to measure  the impact of our instruction. We didn't really have tools that could do that in a timely manner, in an easy to understand manner and in a manner that we could say, okay, yes, we are making a difference with this population of students on these particular sub skills, but we're not making a difference over here. Why is that? What's the reasoning behind that?  It could be anything from attendance issues to gaps in our curriculum to instructional practices that we haven't yet implemented lots of different variables, but it allows us to have a starting point to have those conversations and to determine what our next steps are, and to be able to give students  the instructional atmosphere and the instructional, components that they need to have their learning develop and so that they can grow. So the last slide was just about questions. If there are questions on this, it's sort of a sort of a part one, but not really a part one. Second part being on March 7th, to dig more into the proficiency side of things and to see the impact of what we're doing, tying it back to money, to which I know is a fun topic in our district.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: But it's it's good stuff and it's stuff that we haven't had really great access to before. So it's exciting that we have it now and that we can build

[R9631-155] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting from [83]; superintende | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah. And it really doesn't paint the full picture of what we have to offer. So I think that's a great suggestion. Thanks for bringing that back up.
TEXT> Yeah. What comes to mind really is, is the profile because it has student organizations, the number of kids that take the SAT, you know, what percentage of kids go to two year schools, four year schools, militaries, a lot of information in a 3 or 4 page document. So, Brian.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I had already gotten in touch with great schools to figure out if there was a way to supply data that isn't necessarily being offered through New Hampshire. They don't

[R9631-157] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: doesn't collect all the information or distribute it the way that some other states do. So in regards to that, we're kind of screwed unless the state of New Hampshire starts to do something differently. Yeah, at least according to my conversation with with them.
TEXT> I received similar information. So it's been growing with what you're talking about. And New Hampshire just provides very limited data to them. They they have the ability to receive more information, but that's not what is publicly released by our state. And in and I think part of that has to do with student privacy issues. Or at least that's what the folks at the state have mentioned when I've because I've kind of dug into it at the state level to why, what would it take for you to provide additional information? Because I think there's a greater, more well-rounded picture to be told here. But that is a challenge we face. So we have to think about how do we  what's the workaround for that challenge for our community, and how do we share our story in a different way?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Great. Thank you.

[R9631-234] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Let's do all the donations.
TEXT> And I'm very pleased to hear from Jen Furlan, who is the chair coach.  Excuse me? The, cheer team coach Stevens High School, a remarkable group of young ladies. And there was an anonymous donation that was issued to the Stevens High School cheer team from this anonymous organization for the amount of $2,500. And they, according to Jen Furlan,  the athletic uniforms generally have a rotation of three years. The current uniforms, worn and fall in winter, are now approaching their ninth year, and so they are going to use these funds to upgrade the and replace the uniforms for these deserving young ladies, 10 to 18 girls around the team. And it's just a great, great gift to some very deserving students and community members.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I need a motion to approve all those donations.

[R9631-250] Emily | Community educator, Turning Points Network (first name only on record; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Emily: about this needs to acknowledge that many of the kids were speaking to have experienced this trauma. So it looks to not kids. It's very carefully crafted with its language to, not inadvertently give messages that would induce blame or shame or anything like that.
TEXT> Developmentally targeted education. I mean, any curriculum worth its salt is going to be developmentally targeted, right? But I think the the really neat thing about this is that these are big concepts, some of the things we're teaching. And I'll go into that a little bit, but it's delivered in a way that kids can grab on to. And they've looked that we've got scores of  data and literature that can back up.  Why the language is being crafted the way it is and why concepts are being delivered at certain ages. And then last  or second to last, preventing child to child sexual abuse. If we know that 1 in 3 perpetrators are juveniles. We have a really unique opportunity with this curriculum to not only impact victimization, but to also look at actually reducing perpetration. I think that's my favorite part of the whole curriculum. And then preventing child child sexual, I'm sorry. The social and emotional learning that targets risk and protective factors for abuse. We know. What puts kids at risk. We know how to help them. We know how to reduce the likelihood that they're going to go on to perpetrate things like empathy, things like communication, things like having appropriate language to describe what's happening. Those things are all addressed in this curriculum. So I think I've already covered this pretty well. The training for adults is a huge component.
NEXT> Emily: We've seen this implemented over the years and lots of different school districts around the nation. PCA to prevent child abuse. Vermont is the organization that we've worked closely with

[R9631-251] Emily | Community educator, Turning Points Network (first name only on record; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Emily: to go on to perpetrate things like empathy, things like communication, things like having appropriate language to describe what's happening. Those things are all addressed in this curriculum. So I think I've already covered this pretty well. The training for adults is a huge component.
TEXT> We've seen this implemented over the years and lots of different school districts around the nation. PCA to  prevent child abuse. Vermont is the organization that we've worked closely with to kind of look at how this plays out in schools. The caregiver engagement. We would offer something to all parents because we want them to know what it is we're telling their kids, right. And we want them to give the same messages that schools are giving, that adults are giving. Outside of the home. And then we've got our elementary program. So for grades two through five, and this is a capacity issue for us. So, the end goal is to be offering something much wider, much broader. But for this year, two through five, each grade has its targeted, developmentally appropriate lessons. They're all aligned with national health standards. And if you look at the curriculum, you can flip through. And with each lesson it breaks out. This is what it's aligned with. This is the benchmark that it's meeting. Here are the outcomes. Here's how we're going to get there.
NEXT> Emily: Without going into too much detail, because I want to leave time for questions. The when we get to three, four, five, we're looking at understanding feelings, boundaries, communication. And

[R9631-285] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Let's move on to D. School board policy. First read policy JLF.
TEXT> This policy. I. Bring forth policies with you, and and you approve the policy that deals with, reporting child abuse and  neglect. It had had been revised by the New Hampshire School Board Association. And greatly revised the building principles. And I sat down and they said, you know, it's really though the spirit of it, of the policy was written that the principal would be aware. It really doesn't say that. And it almost it does imply that the principal is the one who will file. Right. And that is not the spirit of how we do business. The principal doesn't decide  who will or will not file. It's the staff member who has the concern. Principal should be aware, but the principal doesn't say yes or no. So utilizing the the language, utilizing the language of in in the law, I recommend that we take the policy that was approved back in 2014, which was much more user friendly and insert insert the statement that there will be postings because the law now requires that there be information signs be posted in each school regarding reporting child abuse and neglect.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And that is as a result of House Bill 556. So by taking our much more user friendly policy of 2014 and inserting that sentence, we feel it's a much

[R9682-78] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: The minutes as written.
TEXT> Any thank you. Any discussion? Hearing none. All those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed? Student representatives report.
NEXT> Unidentified: Lexi. So.,

[R9682-80] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Lexi. So.,
TEXT> A Stevens High School. Last week is this year's annual student council. Brian Winter formal was on Saturday 24th. This year's. Theme was Winter Narnia. Everyone had an amazing time dancing with friends and everyone looked amazing. Congratulations to this year's winter formal. King and Queen Nicholas Stone and myself.  The cast listing for this year's musical theater production, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory Junior, was put up on Monday, March 5th. Congratulations to everyone. This musical will be another great one to add to the books. Stay tuned to hear more from this year's musical theater crew. Thank you to miss the rest of Cahill and Miss Stewart for all of the hard work that you have put into this production already. This year's Senior Play cast is continuing our hard work on this year's production, Mutually Assured Destruction. This. This production is a play involving the special dynamic duo that that siblings have with one another through the years between 2015 and 1922, from a clown that goes on American Idol in 2002, to a flapper refusing to get married in 1922.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: This will be an exciting, funny and heartwarming show. This year's production will be put on at the Teal Lantern here on Thursday, March 29th at six. Friday, March 30th

[R9682-81] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: Destruction. This. This production is a play involving the special dynamic duo that that siblings have with one another through the years between 2015 and 1922, from a clown that goes on American Idol in 2002, to a flapper refusing to get married in 1922.
TEXT> This will be an exciting, funny and heartwarming show. This year's production will be put on at the Teal Lantern here on Thursday, March 29th at six. Friday, March 30th at six. Saturday, March 31st at 1:00 and again at six.  The seniors in this this year's production are so enthusiastic and thrilled to perform these dynamic duos. We hope everyone who comes out to watch us enjoys the show. Congratulations to the newest members of the  Music Honor Society chapter at Stevens High School. These deserving individuals were inducted on Monday, March 12th. This is quite the honor and you all deserve to be a part of something great. Thank you to Miss Clines Friends of Music, and to the parents of all of us members for doing so much for us. It means so much. Congratulations to the newest members of the Stevens High School chapter of National Honor Society, who were inducted on Wednesday, March 14th. Being a part of an honor society like this will build your leadership and character. This is a huge accomplishment.. Beyond. Around 150 students. This event was student, grand, student organized.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: And with inspiration with the Women's March Movement organization. Unlike some other schools, we decided not to take a stand on the gun issue. Instead, we wanted to take a

[R9682-84] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: pieces and a family favorite written by none other Freddie Mercury, which I bet you all can guess. We're singing Bohemian Rhapsody. It's going to be pretty great. We hope that it will be another great concert and everyone who comes and joys and sells.
TEXT> The concert starts at 7:00 in the Stevens High School auditorium, and doors open at 630. Admission is free, but donations are always welcome and greatly appreciated. On Saturday, March 24th, this evening, high school band and choir will be attending yet again. The New Hampshire Music Educators Association large group festival at Bow High School. This is a very exciting festival so wishes all luck. I'm sure will be great! Tuesday, March 27th at 530 is the last parent and student meeting for the Washington, D.C. trip in the Stevens High School Library. Students going on the trip will receive their F tours, backpack ID lanyards, t shirts, and their journals for the trip. They will also receive the final itinerary. This is a time for them to bring the research papers on a spot that they will be visiting in D.C.. This meeting will also give them and their parents to ask any last minute questions they may have. The students and staff going on this experience of a lifetime want to thank the Claremont Realtors Association for another donation of $1,095? Sorry to the D.C. Trip fund. This donation will cover one students entire trip. Another thank you goes out to the for their donation of $300.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: This money will go towards potential incidentals they may encounter while on the trip. Administration will be working this May on organizing next year's trip. On Wednesday, March 28th, 6:00

[R9682-88] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: PTA, who will be providing some yummy snacks for the event. And Maple update Maple Avenue is celebrating youth Arts in our school month this Friday, March 23rd is Plenty of Patterns Day where where the students will wear as many patterns as they can.
TEXT> Next week is Maple Avenue plant. Yeah. Plant night. Paint night. Parents and students come together to create masterpieces. Tuesday, March 27th is for grades one and two. Wednesday, March 28th is for grades two and three. Thursday, March 29th is for grades four and five. The event is from 6 to 7 every night. School board members are more than welcome to join the parents and students. So if you want to get a little messy with little, little kids from Maple Avenue, it's open to you. Maple Avenue wants to thank Mr. Horse for visiting them the other day. It was an introduction to their physical plant and our dynamic lunch experience. They're also excited to have Mr. Benoit reach out for them, reach out to them for a visit next week. So Maple says thank you. A preschool update. The preschool is busy ordering new playground supplies thanks to the Byrne Foundation's generous gift on Monday, April 16th. Spring service day, the preschool will be having a playground project thanks to the volunteers from the high school. The preschool hopes to install the trike path and to get some of the landscaping done that day. If anyone else would like to join them, they'll be at the playground from 830 to 130 for March.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Mr. mayor is the featured author slash artist with a focus on the Little Critter series, which is just perfect for spring. The preschoolers still love going to the gym

[R9682-89] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: thanks to the volunteers from the high school. The preschool hopes to install the trike path and to get some of the landscaping done that day. If anyone else would like to join them, they'll be at the playground from 830 to 130 for March.
TEXT> Mr. mayor is the featured author slash artist with a focus on the Little Critter series, which is just perfect for spring. The preschoolers still love going to the gym with their Stevens High School gym buddies. However, they all want staff members included. I'm sure. Warmer weather and sunshine to come soon.  A little sports update, so the varsity cheer team placed third place in the preliminary competition on Sunday, March 4th. Congratulations and we wish them all good luck at the state level competition. And they made it to states, which is very exciting.  This is the farthest the cheer team at Stevens has gone in many years. We were also incredibly proud of you. You're amazing.  I know that they put their hearts out on those mats that day, and I watched the routines on Facebook, and I teared up a little bit because some of those girls are my friends, and it was just really awesome. They were so excited and proud of themselves.  A CMS School Board report. Congratulations to CMS student  Emily Hawkey. Nick Matthew Egan.  Ma. She she's not here. I don't know how to pronounce this little girl's name, but I'm so sorry. I'm just going to say, Miss King, we're recently accepted to the name a middle school southwest District Festival.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: CMS is participating in the UN Stem Fest again this year on Saturday, March 24th. This will be our third year participating in Stem Fest 28. Students are planning to

[R9682-90] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: CMS student Emily Hawkey. Nick Matthew Egan. Ma. She she's not here. I don't know how to pronounce this little girl's name, but I'm so sorry. I'm just going to say, Miss King, we're recently accepted to the name a middle school southwest District Festival.
TEXT> CMS is participating in the UN Stem Fest again this year on Saturday, March 24th. This will be our third year participating in Stem Fest 28. Students are planning to take advantage of the opportunity to go to Newport Middle High School to join you in science and engineering students for some fun, hands on activities in the Stem areas, and learn from college students about possible careers and field choices available to them in their future. It is an excellent opportunity to expose them to many ideas and sciences. The band inquire at CMS under the direction of Mr. Tom Smith, recently performed their holiday concert. It was a huge success. I think I already read this. Yep, I read this already. Okay, yeah, CMS students athletes are also making a transition to spring sports along with Stevens High School.  They will all be starting soon. I know that they had meetings all week this week after school.  And so they are all hoping that the snow melts in that way they can get out on the field.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's report.

[R9682-95] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: housing while the parent finish high school and the children are cared for in the adjacent child care center, said Cathy Pellerin, who sits on the nonprofit board and runs the grant funded one for All Space childcare center, which is operated by Saw six.
TEXT> So,  young men and young ladies who become parents who have not finished school, right. Great risk of finishing school and not all have the support from their their family.  In many cases that support is not available. So what we are doing with this and where we hope it will expand to even be able to, through grants, purchase a building and providing additional resources for these  young adults who have become parents. And so I just wanted to share with you in yesterday's  Valley News article the importance of this initiative. And to quote Cathy Pellerin, by helping the teens make it through high school and progress to further education and to get a job, she hopes to help reduce their likelihood of developing a drug addiction. Because unfortunately, drugs can be an unwise decision. But sometimes one that is chosen to escape. And so I just want to compliment,  our community and the support of the residents and these organizations who are working to level the playing field for students who have become parents much sooner than we would like. I also wish to ask you to refer to your annual report, and it is a two page document.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: For the past year and a half up until the summer of 2017, a group of residents, staff, administration worked on a strategic action plan and from that a mission

[R9682-103] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: was a great team effort by everybody and it's a wonderful plan. And so I think that, you know, going forward, I think we should be trying to get it out front and forward. So I do agree with putting it on an agenda. Extra.
TEXT> Thank you Michel. And if I may, this strategic action plan will also drive budget. So that's why it's critical. I know that many of you  certainly have have expressed your concerned about the budget and wish to continue with that focus, but it's important that two go hand in hand or adjustments be made accordingly. So  that's why you need to be a part of this discussion before we go forward. Just not assuming that because it was approved in August of 2017, that now the board supports it. I also would like to share with you in your packet. You're going you will find a policy that was approved last fall, health, education and exemption from instruction. And as you know, a few weeks ago in the elementary schools,  we are putting forth  a curriculum to assist  our elementary school students with with the sexuality and awareness and making choices. But some parents who have the right to opt out. The reason I bring this for you is, is basically this two reasons. One, we have been transferring our Microsoft Word policies to Google Docs, and in that process we've identified some typos. So I'm asking you as a board as we go into our Google Docs and review our policies and find typographical errors, would you grant us the process of correcting those without coming back to the board with grammatical corrections?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I would prefer that you brought those back. Make a section and bring them back.

[R9682-134] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> I'm carrying this one step further looking at this policy. Blessing  health education and exemption from instruction. This is a there is. Two documents attached. One is the current policy. And the second document that has a recommended revision. March 21st, 2018. You'll notice some areas that are highlighted the bottom of the page and underline what we have learned after this policy was approved in October is that school districts are not required to provide alternatives or to supplement a instruction for students whose parents opt out. In fact, the the recommendation from the statute and from the Department of Education says provision requiring an alternative agreed upon by the school district and the parent at the parents expense. And so the point is that an alternative is not the expense of the school district, but rather if the parents opt to be the expense of not the school district, but the expense of the parents. And the reason being is if you look at the revised  policy, any student who's exempt by request of the parent under this policy will be provided. An alternate attorney agreed upon assignment by the school district in the parent, so both parent and school district agree at the parents expense because as it stands now with our policy, which we are not required to do every time a parent wishes, no, I don't want my son or daughter to experience this.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We're obligated to provide an alternative at our expense. So I think it's a nice thing to do, but it's an expensive thing to do, and we are not required

[R9682-136] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: We're obligated to provide an alternative at our expense. So I think it's a nice thing to do, but it's an expensive thing to do, and we are not required to do that by by law.
TEXT> Just a quick question on that. So the only from, from my perspective experience, the only time that would matter really, if the student had health or not would be part of their high school graduation. Or is that a middle school requirement for graduation?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: There are, requirements now down to elementary school by state statute. We heard about the healthy curriculum, the healthy relationships curriculum, I think at the either two meetings ago or

[R9682-141] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> I think that the, the rub for implementation of this at this point is more around. Okay, so if they're not doing this curriculum, which is the curriculum in the classroom that the school board approved, then what are they doing during that time and who's responsible for that? And so if the way the policy is written right now, school has to figure it out. School has to be responsible for it. School has to pay for it. So now the school is duplicating efforts and spreading resources even that much more thinly to accommodate six children in one building, five children in another building. So that's where the implementation rub is coming into play at the moment.
NEXT> Unidentified: So Laura is very clear.

[R9682-155] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: I don't believe parents.
TEXT> Parents do not have the right to decide if their child will be educated. They do have the right to decide how. Right if it falls within the.
NEXT> Unidentified: Law, right?

[R9682-158] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Jason' by t | 2018-03-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I was just wondering if there was a consequence consequence to the parent for not providing a program.
TEXT> Their kind of has to be, isn't there? I mean, based on the way the laws are now, kid has to graduate from high school. Correct. So if they can't reach those credits or get their requirements because they choose not to do this program, they're sort of somewhat obligated to make arrangements in order to do that. So realistically, they do have to do something.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: To Frank's point, that's where it would that would be an issue more so at high school than anywhere else.

[R9682-166] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: But and that's not unusual at the high school level.
TEXT> But this is changing it for all from indie garden to high school. Correct. So I think personally that we should table this and discuss it more at another meeting, due to the fact that there are going to be parents out there that don't want to opt into something and cannot afford it, regardless to whether it's the you know who's going to help them, then who's going to help their children, then? I mean, you pick a criteria that says this is what you're going to teach. However.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If no, the school board does.

[R9682-168] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: If no, the school board does.
TEXT> Okay. So if the school board picks the criteria. So I guess as a school board, do you think that we need to collectively review this and understand why people now have to pay if they opt out, especially if they're not able to pay, if the financially don't have the capability, which we could run into dropout rates being higher because kids won't be able to afford it. We are in a demographic area that that could propose this. So I think we need to look at this more before we break.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R9682-172] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Steve' [774 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Steven, just a quick question, because we're.
TEXT> Concerned about the high school end of it. At that point, we have to administratively keep track of it to meet that requirement if a parent's doing it on their own. So at that point, is the cost versus the 5 or 6 students here or there justifying the administrative expense to teach it? You know, realistically, yeah, we're doing it at an expense, but we're talking 5 or 6 kids here or there. The expense to administratively track it, keep a system and create a protocol is not going to be cost much more cost effective, at least from simple mathematics paying an administrative system to keep up with it,  for graduation requirements. So I definitely agree with Michelle that we should probably table this and keep discussing it for a little bit to formulate a plan and get a real cost analysis. As far as point A and point B.
NEXT> Unidentified: Lexi.

[R9682-174] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Lexi.
TEXT> Would the high school aspect of it, I do know that like if, say, if I'm a parent, I didn't want my child to take health at the high school per se, that there are  online programs through things like the Virtual Learning Academy charter through which is lax.  And there's also other things that our guidance counselors can set us up with. And we can do things like first aid online, which will substitute that health credit that they need to graduate. So there's definitely different alternatives out there. And like Vlachs is free for us.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So this isn't I think it's important to note that this is not an entire course. It is, opting out of specific content within a course instead of an entire

[R9682-176] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Jason' by t | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: So this isn't I think it's important to note that this is not an entire course. It is, opting out of specific content within a course instead of an entire course, just for clarification purposes.
TEXT> Do you have any numbers on last year, for instance, how many kids at the high school level opted to or chose, or parents chose to opt their kid  out of out a specific content?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I don't know of any at the high school. Pat can do zero zero at the high school last year.

[R9682-183] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: That's a sexual abuse, correct?
TEXT> That's a healthy relationships curriculum, and it includes some different language than we have taught at those grade levels before. So following board policy, we had an information night for parents so that they could get to know what was in the curriculum and provided them with the opportunity, following board policy to opt out of that. And so the  intended or unintended consequence of the board approving that policy is now we have 5 or 6 kids in each of the three elementary schools whose families have opted them out of that particular curriculum. We also have learned that our local policy is much more restrictive, and  places a greater cost on the district than what is required by law or the recommended state policy. So there's a disconnect between our local policy and what is required by law. That's what Middleton has come back to you to say. Look, we have this disconnect here. It potentially has a financial impact on the school district. If you keep our local policy intact, you could choose to change our local policy  to reflect the state statute, the state law. And if you do that, then there's not the same financial impact on the on the school district as they're currently is.
NEXT> Unidentified: So your.

[R9682-185] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: So your.
TEXT> Current policy states that alternative assignment would be provided by the health or teacher in conjunction with the principal. And that's going to be a cost factor.  And so and again, this I will tell you, when students get into the high school level, there are alternatives. But a student or a parent are not going to opt out if their child can't graduate. So this is not this is not doing anything other than, instead of spending a month and a half reviewing this and having us spend money that we don't need to spend for a small number of students. A justice for to be alignment with the state. And again, this is a fiscal issue. So you certainly, as board members, are very sensitive to the finances. Should we be spending money and providing services that we don't need to? That's the question.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's a good question.

[R9682-201] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: For for.
TEXT> Providing additional programs and additional time for staff to teach the program.  We did not budget for that, but we will be finding our funding somewhere to accommodate the small, these small number of students  that by statute we do not have to..
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Will. To answer your other question, the parent I was held last week, March 14th, and so I can gather that information and distribute it.

[R9682-204] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (re-elected vice chair [49]; LeClair | 2018-03-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I think it would be very helpful. Thank you.
TEXT> Very quickly. I want to say that I'm in agreement with the policy and the wording. I'm just wondering, what the plan is for. Agree with this. I just want to know what the backup plan is for kids who don't,  whose parents don't. I just want to make sure we're in the clear. If parents choose to not provide a supplemental program or  or whatever is mentioned in here.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I think, again, we should be looking at it and taking a little bit of time, especially with a whole new board, so that they can be acclimated. Also.

[R9682-210] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. So.
TEXT> Dan, how was that distributed? Because I have a child in bluff and I didn't receive any information about that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It it was distributed. If I made Frank, it was distributed by a school messenger. I sent out information, I think, twice to all parents and staff in the Claremont

[R9682-230] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Thank you.
TEXT> I also wish to share with you. That, starting tomorrow, there is a group of residents and staff who are meeting in a committee called the Claremont Middle School Scheduling Committee, and they are going to be looking at how we do business with our schedule.  They are going to be researching and exploring other schedules at the middle school level. And making recommendations to me. I'm going to attend that meeting and share my thoughts. It doesn't mean that something's wrong. It just means let's take a step back. It's been about seven years  with some adjustments. Let's take a step back and can we consider making some changes?  This will not have a budgetary impact. The budget is locked,  but perhaps in the future the work of this committee, we may see some budgetary impacts, no different than any other program coming forward with the goal of making improvements. Right now a student has  English class and a math class, and then either a science or social studies class. And I'm very interested in expanding English language arts, math, science, social studies every day. I don't know of any other school in our area that has science for half a year, in social studies for the other half a year.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's not a criticism. We went through some major budgetary reductions in 20 1213 fiscal year, where we reduced the we had to make almost $1 million reduction due to

[R9682-232] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: don't think like adults, even though some of them are as the biggest adults. But the way they process and the way they behave sometimes is very different. And some of that is manifested in their behavior and some of it is manifested in bullying.
TEXT> So I'm very interested in working with  the middle school faculty, ministration students and community to look at our bullying protocols and practices. This is not this is not as a result of some parents who came two weeks ago or now, almost three weeks ago, to the board, because if you go back to my entry plan  of November 2011, I did talk about bullying. So this is something that now I'm reacting to, but it's something that has been in the works.  I was involved with a school, a  protocol, a school safety initiative  that goes back 13 years ago in my days of Massachusetts dealing with bullying and bringing in protocols to assist. And so we are going to be going down that road and we're going to be doing some work. It's going to be inclusive. It's going to involve parents, students, staff  and the community going forward.  And the theme behind it is  can we study the feasibility of making some adjustments for the benefit of all? And I don't think anyone  in our culture today doesn't think we have time to look at bullying. Hanover  High School  is doing some work on bullying.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Son of b a couple of years ago there was quite a bit of attention. So this is a national issue of how we treat each other, but it seems

[R9682-233] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: theme behind it is can we study the feasibility of making some adjustments for the benefit of all? And I don't think anyone in our culture today doesn't think we have time to look at bullying. Hanover High School is doing some work on bullying.
TEXT> Son of b a couple of years ago  there was quite a bit of attention. So this is a national issue of how we treat each other,  but it seems to be mostly manifested in the middle school level,  not Claremont Middle School, but the adolescents. And that's not because they're bad boys and girls. It's because they're adolescents. But I think it's important that with the adults being supportive and the training of the adults and moving forward, we can assist so that that's in place. And last but not least, in your packet, there is a email from Kyle Messier, certified public health dental hygienist, and she talks about  the Claremont and Unity school districts,  have been awarded a research grant for the next five years. And this research grant  is going to allow. All children to receive cleaning, sealant, decay, stopping fluoride and temporary fillings free of charge. In our school district, this is elementary and middle school. The program will be in schools twice a year with dental assistance. Program permission form will be for a five year period with an easy opt out by the parents. What's important to note is that school prevention is a dental to office prevention. What  goes on and what will go on in our schools is no different than what would happen in a dentist's office.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But what is a difference is that many parents have difficulty and an expense to provide that type of dental intervention. So this grant will provide a great deal of

[R9682-262] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> Had some, some interesting ideas. I felt that to make improvements and I asked the feasibility of doing this without making any impact on the budget and it wouldn't be possible. I was interested to see if if all students every day could have English, could have math, science and social studies every day. If the students could have a happy year. Music versus 21 weeks of music, half a year art versus 21 weeks of art. Even with the adjustments of the scheduling, it was not feasible. So. But I still am interested in looking at how we do business at the middle school. It's not a criticism. It doesn't mean things are not going well. It's basically a healthy process. Can we make improvements? Can we make adjustments? Can we look at how we do business?
NEXT> Unidentified: Good. Thank you, thank. You, thank you. That's a long principal superintendent.

[R9682-267] Liza Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3; TLC Family Resource Center (self-identified  | 2018-03-21
PREV> Liza Draper: spend more time thinking about the few who are perhaps opting out and whether we should foot the bill for that unfortunate decision, but instead to move forward and make sure that as many of our children as we possibly can are protected from this.
TEXT> And that's what that curriculum is about. It is not about health at the high school. It is about making sure that our youngest of children are  not to something that we know is a problem in our community and others all across the country. So just a call out for Aaron. Next, I am here because  I work for the TLC Family Resource Center, and we have been partnering with  the school district for the last several months on a reading program. The program was started in December.  We call it understanding diversity and inclusion through children's literature. Every month, we've been doing a reading of a children's book that tackled some pretty tough topics.  Our first one was I Am Jazz, which looks at a transgender girl's experiences in school. Our next one in January, because it was the month during which we do know name calling week, and because you brought up bullying was one which talks about the process of standing up to a bully and what it takes.
NEXT> Liza Draper: In February, because it was Black History Month, we focused on freedom Summer, the story of two young boys growing up in the 60s, and how their lives were different

[R9682-269] Liza Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3; TLC Family Resource Center (self-identified  | 2018-03-21
PREV> Liza Draper: at every reading. We offer some refreshments. We also do some discussion with whomever chooses to attend. And we welcome your presence. It's free. So the one at RV, CC is at noon tomorrow, and the one at the Fisk Free Library is at six.
TEXT> And then in April, you may have seen in the Eagle Times. Today, a picture of this book will be celebrating autism awareness by reading The Girl Who Thought in Pictures, which is the story of Doctor Temple Grandin,  who is now well renowned for the contributions she's made to science.  But as a little child suffered from autism. So I hope that you will join us then too. So that's my TOC hat for that. Any questions about why we're doing this or what we're doing or how it works? Because we would love for you to come. We really would.
NEXT> Unidentified: We invite them to be readers as well.

[R9682-280] Joe Osgood | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified 'Joe Osgood, Ward two' [387] | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Oh. I can. As a citizen.
TEXT> Joe Osgood, Ward two. I'd kind of like to second what Paul just said, but he, he had he does have a couple of them mixed up, but they're both on the same line. I am very disgusted with what I'm hearing tonight.  I'm going to refrain from most of my comments because,  when I get mad, sometimes I say things I shouldn't say. The Department of Education in the state of New Hampshire should  not be running our education system in Claremont. If I can ask the school board to do anything in the next few months is get them  out of your pocket because they are telling you what to do, and they are costing us a bundle. As far as I'm concerned, if you had six people opt out of that class, there's probably ten times more than that. If the parents knew what their kids were going to be exposed to, they would opt out of it, too. This is absolutely ridiculous. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Anyone else for citizens comments?

[R9682-295] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Liza Draper: Definitely.
TEXT> Have to try to make an education, communicate together as a community. And I don't feel that that was a fair comment  that six children, this or that, I think that we should be looking at all children.
NEXT> Liza Draper: I don't think you have a question. I think we have different views on the same subject.

[R9682-299] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Liza Draper: So my opinion is mine and yours is yours, and I completely appreciate it. If you have a question and need me to clarify, I will have.
TEXT> My question was what? What happens to those six children? Who pays for them? I'm asking a question.
NEXT> Liza Draper: They. The law in our state is that they, meaning their parents who choose to opt out of the provided education should pay for that. It is not the school

[R9682-322] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat' [432, 446] and 'Mrs. B | 2018-03-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: maybe six to to nine kids are going to be in a high level class like that. And we feel it's important to run that for those students. You know that would be different than let's say two students sign up for women in literature.
TEXT> So that's when we make the decision as to what courses and sections to run or not. So there there  may very well be things that are in here that won't actually be taught in the fall or the spring of next year because not enough students showed an interest or we didn't have the staffing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So. So, Pat, what I think I hear the I think the consensus of the board is that, that you have what you need for a working document. Right. And

[R9682-323] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: and sections to run or not. So there there may very well be things that are in here that won't actually be taught in the fall or the spring of next year because not enough students showed an interest or we didn't have the staffing.
TEXT> So. So, Pat, what I think I hear the I think the consensus of the board is that, that you have what you need for a working document. Right. And we have we if we take two weeks and look at this and next time  approve it, then what the final approved version of what will be on the web. Correct. Not what's in kids hands, which is okay, because there's enough accurate information in there that but I do. It's having worked on a few of these myself. It it's a very nice job.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9682-367] Unidentified | Stevens High School music teacher (name blank in ASR at self-introduct | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: and Paris, and I've opened it up to all students that have taken a class with me. I don't want I want students I can trust and that know me as a person. I would I just feel more comfortable taking them on a trip.
TEXT> For me, traveling has been a huge part of my learning in life in general. I went on the gap exchange when I was here at Stevens, which was really awesome, and since then I studied abroad in Italy in college, and I've also been,  to both London and Paris on my own.  So I feel comfortable bringing students to these places. The one page paper you have is a very, very quick summary of all the important info. Basically, when they pay for this trip, everything is included except souvenirs and lunch. Those are the only two things they buy on their own. All of the hotels are extra safe. They're not some European hotels you can, like, share bathroom with 20 people. This company, it's called Education First because it's an educational tour. First and foremost, they get hotels that are extremely safe. It's three, four kids in a room. They all know each other. They have their own private bathroom. I get to lock them in and, like, put the piece of tape on the door. So they didn't try to go anywhere at night. And I really I did a training tour with this company, and it's. I really liked them. They're really. They have emergency centers everywhere. And they it's just they're so organized. And I love organization, so  I, I'm really confident in this company. And I would just like your approval to plan now for a trip in 2019.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'd like to make a motion to accept her proposal for Chip in 2019. Do you need extra chaperons?

[R9682-386] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: They deserve it.
TEXT> Was presenting in front of you a couple of weeks ago around growth data. And tonight I want to switch the lens and look at proficiency data. So growth data is measuring where a student started to where they are now. How much learning happened in between those two periods. Proficiency data is measuring how an individual student or a group of students compares to a set standard that set by somebody else. For this presentation tonight, we will be looking at reading and math in our eye ready data. Set  our eye  data. Comes from the eye diagnostic assessment. It's a computer adaptive assessment, which means that as a student answers a question correctly, they get a harder question. As they answer and question incorrectly, they get an easier question. They continue with that process until they get about half the questions correct and half the questions wrong. That's considered their zone of proximal development. That's where the learning happens, and that's their level at which they are at.  And so this computer adaptive assessment we use currently in grades one through ten. This is our second year of implementation with I ready. We used to use a different assessment called the NWA Map Assessment Measure of Academic Progress.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And and chose to switch to I ready because it's much easier to implement. It's easier to understand the report. It's more family friendly. It's more student friendly. And it,

[R9682-387] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: at which they are at. And so this computer adaptive assessment we use currently in grades one through ten. This is our second year of implementation with I ready. We used to use a different assessment called the NWA Map Assessment Measure of Academic Progress.
TEXT> And and chose to switch to I ready because it's much easier to implement. It's easier to understand the report. It's more family friendly. It's more student friendly. And it, just had a lot of flexibility to it and usefulness to it that other assessment systems did not have. So we use the eye diagnostic. We give that diagnostic assessment three times a year. So we give it in the early fall. We give it in the mid-year January typically. And then we give it again in the spring. And we look at those data sets. We look at them at the district level, which is what we'll be talking about tonight. We look at them at the building level and we look at them  classroom level and individual student level. If you're a parent in the district, which at least, well, more than half of you are now. That's that's good. You've seen these. I already reports as long as you have a student that's out of kindergarten, which I believe you all do. So you've all seen these? I already parent reports at home. It gives you information on how you can help your student at home with their learning, and what they might be learning at school as well. So first we'll talk about reading.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We'll be looking at this data in terms of grade level and Claremont district as a whole. And then the individual schools. This, I think, may be one of the

[R9682-389] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: you many slides tonight that have lots of numbers on them. I will send this to you so you can digest it more later if you choose to. But just as a general glance, you can kind of get a sense of what's going on.
TEXT> That was the overall look, we'll dig deeper now, and I want to talk about a cohort, because this is a little confusing to some people. The data we're going to look at is if I'm in second grade right now, I have a second grade student. I'm going to look at that child's data this year compared to that child's data last year when they were in first grade. And so that's the cohort model. So we're looking at the same group of students from one year to the next year. We're not looking at this year's second graders compared to last year's second graders, if that makes sense. So we're looking at this year's second graders, how they did this year compared to how they did last year as first graders. The grade one data. However, we are only looking  this fall to winter because they didn't do the assessment in kindergarten. So we're just looking at their proficiency as it was in September compared to January of this school year. For grade one only grades two and above. We're looking last January to this January for the same group of students.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

