[R9315-442] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Superintendent: 'if I may, Chris, y | 2017-09-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: It is research based, though, that children do do better when they start later.
TEXT> It's funny, we have plenty of kids that do very well in that same research, so I just don't buy it for a second to put out of bed and go to school.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Data science.

[R9315-452] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Just.
TEXT> Double, triple check with busing and food service and schools to  make sure our actual times are correct. But the just is elementary would be there in elementary students in the morning, high school students in the afternoon for these five early release days.
NEXT> Unidentified: Second. I didn't.

[R9315-475] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: School board policy. ILDA nonacademic surveys and questionnaires for second read write.
TEXT> You do in your packet there's a a two page memo that that explains these policies. And by the way I would like some assistance with this. If I'm overloading you with policies, you can ask me to pull it back a bit and I will. But we have a ton  of new policy due to legislative changes. So I'm not trying to overload you, but in the same light, we have some work to do. I hope that you have sufficient time to review it, but there is a nonacademic surveys and questionnaires, which is before you as a as a second read. And then you have the policies drug free workplace and drug free schools. First read parent objections to specific course materials, health education and exemption from instruction, physical education, special physical health needs of students, school guidance and counseling, program receipt and use of sex offender registry information and reporting. Child abuse or neglect. You have the new policy and then the current policy after it. Each of these comes before you with the recommendation of New Hampshire School Board Association, and also represent changes in legislation. That's why these are basically before you changes the legislation.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Clarification on I'm sorry I moved away from the policy and have to find again.

[R9315-544] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: JLD.
TEXT> Right at the bottom of page one of that policy.  The draft. It says the last bullet. It says a summary report of students performance and achievement. Attendance and behavior shall be provided to the board at least once a year. Addressing the effectiveness of the school counseling program. That, to me, sounds like guidance is in charge of how kids do if they come to school and how they behave while they're there.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I get May I respond to that? I certainly understand why you would say that. You can also look at it as saying the school counseling program, meaning how the

[R9315-545] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: behavior shall be provided to the board at least once a year. Addressing the effectiveness of the school counseling program. That, to me, sounds like guidance is in charge of how kids do if they come to school and how they behave while they're there.
TEXT> I get May I respond to that? I certainly understand why you would say that. You can also look at it as saying the school counseling program, meaning how the school is working, and consulting and counseling with students to assist them with their performance and achievement and attendance. So you might put it as under guidance, but I see it as a as a school initiative, a school responsibility, not just guidance. I agree with you. Guidance, teachers, administration were all part of that responsibility, and we all have a part in assisting students with their performance, achievement, attendance.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But it sounds as if that's how the department's going to be evaluated. I mean, that's what it sounds like.

[R9315-554] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> I think that would be my suggestion that it would resemble more than the the last sentence of the last paragraph where, rather than a, You know, a where they're going to be evaluated on being effective. I think the development of plans for students  are working on those goals. If if that is part of their goals.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Some way. You frank on that one. Just so you know, I said I'm with you on that one.

[R9315-609] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda, calls votes; addressed  | 2017-09-06
PREV> Chris Irish: You've got five administrators go from the district to conquer to a conference in Concord as a school, which is absolutely a school function. And part of that conference is an after hours cocktail party. As part of that conference, you are absolutely at an.
TEXT> A school function includes kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: With kids. I think it's kids. That's that's what.

[R9315-610] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: A school function includes kids.
TEXT> With kids. I think it's kids. That's that's what.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think a function is, including children.

[R9315-611] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member, first-year ('newbie' [164-166]; recogni | 2017-09-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: With kids. I think it's kids. That's that's what.
TEXT> I think a function is, including children.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's prom. It's a dance field trips, field trip.

[R9315-615] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Superintendent: 'if I may, Chris, y | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: You're not going to.
TEXT> Have Becky's point is that we should add the language in there at a school, school functions involving students or something to that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It's very I feel like it's just so simple to just say involving students that you understand it. I understand it, you understand it. But what if the next board

[R9315-616] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member, first-year ('newbie' [164-166]; recogni | 2017-09-06
PREV> Chris Irish: Have Becky's point is that we should add the language in there at a school, school functions involving students or something to that.
TEXT> It's very I feel like it's just so simple to just say involving students that you understand it. I understand it, you understand it. But what if the next board member position.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I don't interpret a school function as having involved kids. I would interpret a school function is something that the school that the school district itself is, is sponsoring and

[R9315-617] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' [140,256] and a | 2017-09-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: It's very I feel like it's just so simple to just say involving students that you understand it. I understand it, you understand it. But what if the next board member position.
TEXT> I don't interpret a school function as having involved kids. I would interpret a school function is something that the school that the school district itself is, is sponsoring and has organized. So maybe, maybe it needs to be defined.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's just my suggestion.

[R9315-620] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Superintendent: 'if I may, Chris, y | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Just added.
TEXT> Official school functions involving students or organized by the district.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9315-649] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda, calls votes; addressed  | 2017-09-06
PREV> Chris Irish: Let me just read.
TEXT> Parents guardians of yes or students over 18 years, or students over 18 years of age who do not want their child to participate in a particular unit of health or sex ed instruction for religious reasons or religious objections are allowed to have their child opt out of such instructions.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Is the new law? Is it specifically because for religious reasons or religious objections? Because I guess.

[R9315-662] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: a question, Patrick, when you're done? It to Patrick's point about sex ed, religious reasons, religious objections, is it just limited to that? Like, if could a parent opt out of anything in general if they wanted to, if they didn't agree with the curriculum?
TEXT> Parents do not have the right to decide if their child will be educated. Parents have the right to decide how. So parents have rights  to opt out.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So maybe, I guess I was just wondering why these are so specific in here if they have the right.

[R9315-666] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member, first-year ('newbie' [164-166]; recogni | 2017-09-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Specific health education.
TEXT> Oh, because up top. Yeah, I know about religious and religious objections. I just wonder why it's so specific. It's just a question. It's not a criticism. I just if they could opt out of how their child is taught. I just wondered why it was so Pacific.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Their parents have the right to opt out if their child would be immunized for religious reasons, for example. And even though we have immunization requirements with that documentation that

[R9315-667] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: top. Yeah, I know about religious and religious objections. I just wonder why it's so specific. It's just a question. It's not a criticism. I just if they could opt out of how their child is taught. I just wondered why it was so Pacific.
TEXT> Their parents have the right to opt out if their child would be immunized for religious reasons, for example. And even though we have immunization requirements with that documentation that is waived for that parent or that child.
NEXT> Unidentified: I guess the.

[R9315-687] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: To have.
TEXT> Your child opt out.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I mean, they do it in English class, they opt out of certain.

[R9315-694] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay. Can I.
TEXT> Quick thing on JLF this is very quick. Reporting child abuse. I would recommend the first sentence that we would add, it says shall immediately report his her suspicions to the building principal and I would add or designee, perhaps in case the principal is not there.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Frank, could you please help me where you are? JL f right.

[R9315-696] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Frank, could you please help me where you are? JL f right.
TEXT> Reporting child abuse or neglect?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Sorry I am I'm on j.

[R9315-732] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> The principals. Ask their their staff to sign a document indicating they have reviewed certain policies. And part of one of those is child abuse.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9315-757] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: And that is our work for tonight.
TEXT> If I if I may, Brian, there is going to be three presentations September 20th being planned. The scheduling committee wants to give you a progress report. Stevens High School scheduling committee talked to Diane Edwards, which is to talk about the early childhood education program, which which will address some of your comments, Chris, about how things are changing at the tech center and what that program will do as far as involving high school students. And also, I think it's going to be important for the board and the community to periodically hear from Christine Downey High school curriculum. Kim Gogan middle school curriculum and Kathleen Bonnell elementary curriculum instruction, assessment. So I have put this placeholder in not to have an extended long presentation, but the key to you and the community aware of their work with teachers, with administration. So that's that's a thought.  If you prefer. Not for the 20th, that's fine. But I just wanted to keep this discussion alive and well, because what they're doing is not by coincidence. And what they're doing is impacting the pre-K to 12 instruction.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: These I mean, these are all important to me. I, I think 3 in 1 meeting. It seems like it seems like it's a lot to digest.

[R9328-16] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: they'll get by. Or are you going to have the same high expectations for somebody that doesn't have a lead comp? I have a feeling that teachers are going to see the kids differently, and that's something I don't know if anybody has thought of.
TEXT> If I may, thank you for for your comments. The spirit of the policy was to inform parents the spirit was never to invade privacy.  The school district does not see the results of that. Is medical information. That private information.  The policy does not include waiver. That's why  I believe you were advised to come to the board. Because the board, we have a policy. And I cannot indiscriminately adjust the policy without the board's prior prior  approval. But,  you certainly are entitled to what you've said, your feelings of what you've said and your beliefs. But the intent was never to violate the privacy of a family or a child, but rather to inform. And if, in fact, the test results came back high, would lead  poisoning,  that wouldn't be something we would be privy to. That would be information for the parent, for the primary care physician. But at least we know that that question has been asked. So that was the spirit behind it. However, and.
NEXT> Unidentified: I point out something, sir, I got this from the does not school. It says you must in very bold letters provided.

[R9328-20] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, I've read the whole thing. And it also says up until the age of six. So my granddaughter. That's right over the sixth on Saturday. So the reason why the.
TEXT> Reasons was due to the fact that normally testing is not even, done, period. And, and as, as your child goes in for a physical and usually for kindergarten especially, that test has never been something that was standard with the doctor's office. So now it's the school board has helped to make it a little bit more standard. Because before there was no standard to it when your child went for a physical.
NEXT> Unidentified: But shouldn't that something be something that school board might have brought up with the Claremont doctor's and made it a standard for the doctors to do?

[R9328-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Well.
TEXT> What they know is that there has or has not been an assessment. Okay. Right.  When we have records of immunization, we don't have the finite details of the immunization. We just have that the child has been immunized.  And that really, as I said before, the spirit of this,  but, you know, the the reality is,  and I believe I sent you a I believe I sent you a letter to explain.
NEXT> Unidentified: You did. And you sent me the same lead policy as the school department the school system gave me. And the nurse turned around and said, we can't. Originally. She

[R9328-43] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Becky' [435] and speaks  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: That's my daughter, because my daughter's come alone. And that's why I told the nurse.
TEXT> But I want to just assure you that I worked at Dessner for many years, and I can't think of one person who would ever treat any child differently, no matter what their report says. But that aside, I myself as a parent,  think about the whole concept of waiver. And when the policy was put into place, I never even thought about this issue coming up from someone who wouldn't want their child screened by let in. As much as I would say I don't.
NEXT> Unidentified: Have been tested, but it's not School Department's responsibility to have it.

[R9328-70] Unidentified | Public commenter, grandparent of a kindergarten student, on the lead-s | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: to to put somebody here or there in the score wise. That's not any of the issue. And I think that because she came back to you at the end just asking for that, she was realizing that that's all that was required. So it.
TEXT> Also scares the parents of some of the wording that's in there. That's saying that, oh, if your child has high levels, they could become a criminal, they could become a drug addict. They could be hearing deficit, vision deficit there.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: They're extremely terrible things that do associate with lead poisoning.

[R9328-72] Unidentified | Public commenter, grandparent of a kindergarten student, on the lead-s | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: They're extremely terrible things that do associate with lead poisoning.
TEXT> But does that need to be in the policy that that could happen if your child does have high levels?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I think that I think that it I think that we should have as much information in there. Absolutely do. And yes, we're the first community in the state to

[R9328-73] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: But does that need to be in the policy that that could happen if your child does have high levels?
TEXT> I think that I think that it I think that we should have as much information in there. Absolutely do. And yes, we're the first community in the state to put it as a mandate. And yes, we do need to revisit it and look at, you know, possibly doing a waiver. However, I can't stress enough the fact of how important it is because there there are other children or other families that this test is going to benefit.
NEXT> Unidentified: I understand that, but in your own policy, it says they have to be tested twice. Now. If a child doesn't go to go to a doctor or a good

[R9328-74] Unidentified | Public commenter, grandparent of a kindergarten student, on the lead-s | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And yes, we do need to revisit it and look at, you know, possibly doing a waiver. However, I can't stress enough the fact of how important it is because there there are other children or other families that this test is going to benefit.
TEXT> I understand that, but in your own policy, it says they have to be tested twice. Now. If a child doesn't go to go to a doctor or a good basis or whatever. How are they going to be tested twice before they come to kindergarten?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: May I interject.

[R9328-91] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior and Na | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: sit in the auditorium with some of our music presentations and performances. Lexi Grenier is one of our students that stands out. And I've told her that more than once because she does, like many of our of our student performers. So again, welcome, Lexi.
TEXT> Thank you.  So here's the school board update for Stevens High School. Recycled percussion is scheduled to visit Stevens on Tuesday, September 26th. So that would be next Tuesday.  They will be filming their TV show Chaos and Kindness, and we'll be putting on an assembly and concert for the whole school.  At this time, we do not have more details about times or plans for the day, but we will share them with the community as we get them. It's spirit week at Stevens. Today was little kid day, so people dressed.
NEXT> Unidentified: Up and.

[R9328-103] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Number five.
TEXT> Yes, the reason I. The reason I  put this this  on. Because the first few weeks of school is more than a whirlwind.  And what was fascinating about this week is that a September 5th or near about with the opening of school, there was a quite a large article in the Valley News about a horrific event that took place in August 28th. And I will get into that a little bit later, but I would like to share with you that  despite the challenges from that event,  the the progress in the elementary, middle and high school is really quite remarkable. And it's the past few days I've seen a reminder of why it's so important to have a solid way of communicating what is going on in our school district. And one example was the Eagle Times and the ticker talking about Gear Up New Hampshire, the program that identifies a cohort as the groups of seventh grade students  and follows them through. In this case, it's seventh grade and eighth grade and will follow them through high school, providing ongoing support as well as the opportunity for financial assistance. The goal is not to push students into college.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The goal is to make young men and women aware of the opportunities and the different approaches one can take, especially if they don't hear that conversation very often outside

[R9328-105] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: member, will certainly talk to you about her experiences going from Stevens High School into the military and a career that spanned over 20 years, and the advantages that provided her at that moment in her life, where we are, where she was upon graduation.
TEXT> So there's going to be a 4 or 5 meetings of the Gear Up advisory  Committee. There'll be reports to you as a board,  and they are going to be ongoing,  presentations and involvement,  because we have the financial support of this grant,  we'll be able to provide different opportunities for students  that we have not been able to before. And so again, there'll be more details with that coming forward. But I am very, very pleased,  that  the stars aligned with this, you know, back in the summer of 2016.  One of our goals was to provide students with more awareness of the advantages of applying to post-high school education opportunities and to increase the number of students who apply and and increase the number of students who are accepted. And then a month or so after that, gear up New Hampshire. We realized that we were a part of the cohort awarded this multi-year  grant,  Claremont School District. So  it was to to us, very exciting that a goal that we had now came from support that we did not realize was coming our way. So sometimes things occur for a reason.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the very excited about that, and without any question, the school year thus far has been a very, very busy place. Whether you're in the elementary schools, whether you're

[R9328-106] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: part of the cohort awarded this multi-year grant, Claremont School District. So it was to to us, very exciting that a goal that we had now came from support that we did not realize was coming our way. So sometimes things occur for a reason.
TEXT> And the very excited about that, and without any question, the school year thus far has been a very, very busy place. Whether you're in the elementary schools, whether you're in the middle schools or whether you're in the high schools, the academics, the arts and the athletics are just taking off. And and  it's quite remarkable. This morning  I was standing with Wendy DePuy,  system principal of Stevens High School,  in front of Stevens High School as students board left, left the bus, school busses and walked up the steps or left their cars and entered the school or walked down the sidewalk. It's sort of interesting. The advantage of being there early in the morning is that you can see the response of students when  miss says, Happy Wednesday, happy Wednesday, and you'll see some who will smile and you'll see some who will grunt.  But all that aside, they're great kids. They're great kids. And the at the middle school as well as the elementary school,  we we are moving full steam ahead.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And it is very, very exciting times. But not to deter from that, though, we've also had some challenges. And the past few weeks, August 28th, we learned of this.

[R9328-108] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: by the police authorities. But as a result of of what happened last week, I did a school messenger telephone message and the following day there was a September 12th, there was a community gathering at Broad Street, followed by a gathering at Trinity Episcopal.
TEXT> And tomorrow there will be a time for reflection at Trinity Episcopal. And this represents one of many steps that are being taken by community members. Some residents in Claremont, some residents  outside of Claremont  who have  come forward to  talk about what did occur and then talk about planning for the future to reduce the opportunity or the chances of that occurring in the future. And the one thing that I think is important, the outpouring of interest is really quite remarkable. But when you think back, I think most of us know and have had experiences  that racism is not something of the past, that not accepting diversity, that having an intolerance for differences  is still part of our culture. Perhaps not widespread, but but it still is a part of our culture. And so my goal is not to buy a program or to buy a textbook or to have an assembly program, and therefore we've done our job. But to work closely with the community, work closely with the organizations, work closely with the faculty, parents, students  and the school boards to take a step back and do some recalibrating and ask our selves some questions about our school culture and about our school climate, and about our awareness of of how the school day is going in and the interaction.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Because, last week, on Tuesday, after the community gathering, there were two high school students who talked about their experiences in high school. And and they said that there's some

[R9328-109] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: students and the school boards to take a step back and do some recalibrating and ask our selves some questions about our school culture and about our school climate, and about our awareness of of how the school day is going in and the interaction.
TEXT> Because, last week, on Tuesday, after the community gathering, there were two high school students  who talked about their experiences in high school. And and they said that there's some subtle things that go on.  And sometimes it can be troubling. And it's not just about Stephen's High school. It is, in fact, about, about really every school setting. And I know that sounds a little, deflating, but in truth. This is not a Claremont issue. We have a there was a former student athlete of ours who was a student of color and competing  on the athletic field and in competing in athletic competition.  Inappropriate comments were made to him  about his skin color by the opposing team. The good news is that when we do that and we went to the opposing team, athletic department and administration, they they handled it immediately because it's not acceptable. But it was a reminder that it does occur and that it's subtle, but it's still there. So one of my goals with this is to take a look at our school board policies, and also to work with the faculty to work with, as I said before, the community and to develop  a plan.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And this plan is not going to be a something that's going to be created overnight, but it needs to be meaningful and it needs to be impacting a wide

[R9328-110] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that it's subtle, but it's still there. So one of my goals with this is to take a look at our school board policies, and also to work with the faculty to work with, as I said before, the community and to develop a plan.
TEXT> And this plan is not going to be a something that's going to be created overnight, but it needs to be meaningful and it needs to be  impacting a wide range of population so it can be self-sustaining, because how we treat each other, you know, we is such an important piece of this. And though race may have been a piece of this, what was clearly a piece of this was an intolerance of diversity and how how a small group of children started something, and then it got larger and got larger and then got to a point. And so I'm very interested in, in going forward with this because we we need to be careful that it's not just about race. The race was a piece of this allegedly, but it's also about diversity and that a young man or woman or an adult should not pay a price because they look different, whether it be the way they dress, the way they look, their color, etc.. So this will be a piece, I believe, what's happening tomorrow night,  which is again a reflection and what's going what's going to be developing from this with the municipality, with the leaders, the mayor and the chief of,  of the chief of police were at the meeting this morning at the Moody building where we talked about tomorrow night.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: This is not going to be a closed shop. It may start small with a small group, but that information of what's occurring is going to be expanded and publicized,

[R9328-112] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: is talking about is that the conduct of, of children or the conduct of adults is not genetics. And I'm not pointing my finger to anyone or pointing my finger at parent the teachers saying this, we really have to point our fingers at ourselves.
TEXT> And so how we how we go forward with this is an opportunity to make meaningful change over time and even recently, into the woods, children will listen. Careful the things you say. Children will listen. Careful the things you do. Children will see and learn. Children may not obey, but children will listen. Children will look to you for which way to turn? To learn. What? To be careful. Before you say listen to me. Children will listen. So two different musical performances 60 years apart. We're saying a similar message. And so the ownership of where we're going to get really is all of ours. And I look forward to that. It what the thing that took place on  August 28th. Is also an opportunity on the positive spin, an opportunity to take a step back, reflect and then go forward together. We're not going to turn everything upside down, but the worst thing we can do  is to turn our back on it or make excuses. Well, of all the things that happen that only happens once or twice. No. It happened. And so I look forward to to continuing that work. And I will share with you that  New Hampshire Public Radio, the Associated Press, NBC news, Nightline, Boston Globe have been involved with this and have been contacting us and have  I'm going to be on the New Hampshire Public Radio and a panel next Monday  in the morning in Concord.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I don't have all the answers, but I'll share my perspective from school districts perspective as we go forward with this and keep this, keep this on the front line

[R9328-113] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that New Hampshire Public Radio, the Associated Press, NBC news, Nightline, Boston Globe have been involved with this and have been contacting us and have I'm going to be on the New Hampshire Public Radio and a panel next Monday in the morning in Concord.
TEXT> I don't have all the answers, but I'll share my perspective from school districts perspective as we go forward with this and keep this, keep this on the front line and provide our thoughts as we go forward. And even by the way, parents from New York wrote me a letter asking me, my children included, some thoughts in this letter. Could you give this to the boy who was victimized in late August? So even from communities and family members  in other parts of our country.  And in closing, I just want to repeat what was said to me earlier today at a meeting. When one person is hurt, everyone is hurt. So this will be an opportunity.  It won't be an overnight. Make it a little messy, but if we're going in the right direction. And so thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9328-116] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' [67,160,552] an | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Key word being tolerance. Patrick.
TEXT> Yes. Doctor? Yes. I want to thank you. And very pleased to hear you also talking about the, you know, the emphasis on on really our our tolerance and our tolerance towards diversity. Which I think is, is probably the best unifying focus for us as a community. Because I, you know, I think the thing was and like you said also, I think so many I don't want to I don't want to compare the kind of any kind of hurt or feelings that we had as citizens to what, you know, the child,  had to go through in the family. I don't want to even try to compare that, but it I think everyone was just was affected by this. And we're also community that tends to come together. And you know, I also saw, you know, just widespread concern and, you know, support for this child.  And I really think that's I mean, that's the message I think we need to really reinforce that. I think it's community members to see any, any one of anyone treated with this kind of disrespect is unacceptable. But yeah, at the same time, I think we should look, take this opportunity to look at it. I think everyone or community that deserves to be treated, you know, to me, to feel apart and respected because honestly, there's other areas in where which we can sometimes be insensitive and not as,  respectful to people based on differences.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I mean, look, this is even where this is one of the few regions in the country that has a has a, a negative term for people that move

[R9328-123] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: You, Michel.
TEXT> I have two parts to this. The first part is they talked to a long resident of Claremont about this incident, who is of race and. He grew up in and he said, I was at the time the only person of, of a different color when I grew up. So from then to now, looking at the changes that we've gone through and that our community is growing and it's growing with a diverse  group of people. It's it's not uncommon for, for for some things to happen. However, what I'm hearing a lot of is bullying, a lot of bullying and things that are coming out and and in some senses, I feel like it's almost a case of bullying to that, that we need to look at policies around bullying and  what what is steps are being taken. Because I grew up being bullied myself as a, as a, as a child and a teenager, being a special education student, I was horrifically picked on as a, as a young adult. And it was never fun. It was never nice to go to school and know that you would be picked on. And unfortunately, sometimes they say that children can be more cruel than adults because they don't know what they're saying.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: They don't understand what they're saying. So having the conversations around bullying and, and really having an anti-bullying, no tolerance, you know, letting everyone know that, you know, I think

[R9328-132] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> My plan is to do a school working with Pat Berry to do a school messenger announcement. But but the intent and the initial plan is to have this be exclusively Stephenson High School. It's not to include with all due respect to our middle school students and our three elementary school students, perhaps Pat can speak to this,  but that was the intent behind it. And I know that's not what people might want to hear, and I very much respect that. But it was not intended to be  for 1700 children, even though in the perfect world that would happen. But it was not intended to be that,  had just met. Could you could I just have seen this on the table? Can I ask Pat to come up? Could you just give us a a playback as to the spirit behind this?  That's going to preempt my school messenger message to the community. Thank you for that.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Absolutely. So I have to say that before, a couple of days ago, I didn't know who recycled percussion was. And so I know that's that's not a cool thing

[R9328-140] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' [67,160,552] an | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patricia Barry: Yeah. He's, he's, he's waiting on me to, to give him some stuff.
TEXT> So  you know, at the same, at the same time,  at least if there's any way we can convey to Justin, I think the importance that they're coming to this city would be to the elementary school and middle school families, because at least I've seen on, you know, on  on what's up Claremont, the usually the parents who have been most active in trying to win the contest to bring them here are parents of elementary school and middle school,  children. I mean, we can and so I think in one level, I think we should try to, you know.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Still email him.

[R9328-146] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I mean, you might be able to, you know, convey that to him and that the school, the families can bring the kids from school and meet there. It's just it's just not fair to feel bad if your your school did you get picked.
TEXT> They want it to be about a positive thing. And yes, we're going through a lot of negative things. However there's a lot. There's there's much more positive about one school being picked. And you know, those our grade school children can look forward to when they go to high school. Oh, this came here. I mean, it's even Tyler graduated from our high school. You know, it's it's one of those things where you can't have it all, but you can have a great part of it and still have everybody involved and in the community.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I think, you know, when, when he and I do touch base, I'm going to ask those questions and I'm going to ask, obviously what their plan is because,

[R9328-165] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: are in greater demand for. What's interesting is that talking with the, talking with Bill, with me, as I find that document, I was talking with Rebecca Dusky of the business development specialists of the city of Claremont, and she she cites the following data.
TEXT> And the interest was gear up New Hampshire. As you may know, Claremont employers have over 300 open positions at this very moment. And a good part of that has to do with the lack of specific skills. And part of that has to do with students not having the opportunity to acquire those particular skills as the businesses and and technology changes. So it's not that the district is dropping the ball that we need to have some retrofitting as to some of our investment and some of the program opportunities for students. So that is going to be tomorrow here at 3:00, followed by  a discussion with, with with the congresswoman.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: When you say here physically.,

[R9328-183] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: This very well.
TEXT> And we believe that a quality schedule promotes communication. And this is going to start at the beginning level of even creating it in the first place. And we want to go back to Claremont Pride creating something that is for us. And we also want to link it to the work that you've all done with the Strategic Action Plan, and  that we're supporting some communication through all stakeholders. That's community members as well as the board, as well as all of the faculty involved, all of the administration  and and the students. And what you'll see later on in our presentation is the fact that all of the minutes that we've created from all of our meetings  are on the Sea website for anyone to look at, we will actually take you through how to get to those minutes so that any community member can take a look at what the work is that we're doing, where we're going with the work, and weigh in on the work that's going on,  and all of your voices will be heard. We want that kind of reflection from everybody. So we want to make sure that that is being done. If we could go to the next slide.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: And provides collaboration. One of the things that I think I'm into my 14th year now at Stevens High School, and for all 14 years people have been saying, we've

[R9328-193] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: You know, that's what we want to be able to promote, and we want to be able to have a school schedule that allows for that flexibility to happen.
TEXT> And now the work starts. Actually, the work already started. So we want to take you through our action plan. We outline and articulated what we need to do, the tasks that we needed to do, and the timeline that it would take to do these things. So this work already started off as the first thing that we were doing is gathering and collecting information and relevant data. We started with the community. We're not finished with the community, but we just started. We went to the  Back to School festival and we went to a freshman orientation, and we set up our table right where the food line was. And so what we wanted was data. We wanted information from parents and kids and anybody who is there to tell us. Basically, we distilled it down to two questions, and the two questions were. What should a high school student school day look like in Claremont?  And what do you want students to be learning and doing in high school? Those two questions, and by the end of both events, they were full of post-it notes.  And frequently, sometimes parents would tell me a whisper of what they would like to see, and I would beg them to write it down and put it up there, because those are the things that we want to hear that's going to inform the work that we do.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: And so we started collecting data in, I think it would have been late August, and we've got a lot more work to do because we just started there. We

[R9328-194] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: would tell me a whisper of what they would like to see, and I would beg them to write it down and put it up there, because those are the things that we want to hear that's going to inform the work that we do.
TEXT> And so we started collecting  data in, I think it would have been late August,  and we've got a lot more work to do because we just started there. We have a lot more people to talk to. We are planning for teacher voices to be heard. We are planning for student voices to be heard, and we are planning to conduct focus groups,  and we're planning to conduct surveys and talk to as many stakeholders as possible so that we can get back from them the information based on what their wishes are. What do we need here in Claremont that keeps coming back to it for me  and all of the stakeholders involved. So we want to make sure that we are very careful and we do this thoroughly, and we get as we hit as many people as we can.  So we assume the timeline for this is just collecting that information from people is going to take from the start of the work in August and continue through November.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Can I just interject quickly? I think one of the things that we've learned with some other implementations in our district is that sometimes the step has been, not given

[R9328-197] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Larissa Cahill: those other places, and when we're looking at research of best practices that we're looking at through the lens of Claremont, and we're making sure that we do that, and we do that well, and we anticipate that that will be a lot of work.
TEXT> But that we're spending we're meeting every other week for approximately an hour and a half to two hours each meeting. And we expect that the the bulk of that work will be done between November and December. Phase three. So the next thing that we're going to be doing is conducting educational research and doing the site visits. So once we've created the rubric based on what everybody in the community, including teachers and students, have told us, then Christina and I are going to be doing a lot of work researching facilities to go visit, places to see people to talk to with a specific intent of looking at it for our purposes at the time. We're also going to be digging into research, looking at best practices, looking at differing models, what they mean for students, what works, what doesn't work. That's the work that we're going to do. And it looks like that's going to take a couple of months to do that. Again, looking at it from various folks are going to be going on site visits, coming back, reporting back to the community committee, taking all of that information and working with that information. So that's the work of the winter. So we're looking at December, I'm sorry, November to January approximately to get that piece done.
NEXT> Unidentified: So this floor is.

[R9328-203] Larissa Cahill | Theater arts teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee co-lea | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: resources that need to occur. But have all those play out, do they play out? Is that an area where we say, nope, the limit of the schedule has to stop here? We don't know yet. Until we get knee deep into this work. Yeah.
TEXT> What we feel is very important, and what we agreed to in our first meetings is that everything that we do will be completely transparent to the entire public. And so,  we just. Oh, the other piece is going back. Is that another piece to the work that we do is after we've done it, we need to evaluate it. And as we need to, we need to make modifications and tweak it as necessary and revise as necessary. And I don't know if it's mentioned here, but also conduct professional development for staff members. As things get implemented and people  become aware of changes and feel so that staff members can feel confident to get behind something that's new and work with it and have some staff development to go along with that and to have it be user friendly for students. So we're seeing it as phasing in  for phasing in over time for a couple of years, but also coming back and revising it, and that's what we're looking to do.
NEXT> Christine Downey: So I think the important part of this slide in what it's saying to you as board is that this committee right now, two days standing in front of you

[R9328-209] Robin | Life science teacher, Stevens High School; scheduling committee member | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Right there. Perfect. Yeah. And.
TEXT> I'm just I'm Robin, the life science teacher at the high school. And I'm just going to kind of piggyback off of what Scott said. One of I've had, the fortune to have a lot of partnerships with Dartmouth College and was keen State College. And, right now  I'm really impressed with the openness of the people on the committee because for me, I teach with seasons. So when I, when I and they asked me my ideal schedule, I'm outside every day and going and playing in the labs and doing all sorts of things is like he knows. So I will say that when we were thinking about this and I can speak for myself, we were looking at this, how to make this fit for all of the opportunities that we can have with partnerships, with tech centers, with all of these things. And so kids can are not don't feel trapped inside the school and they can have all these other opportunities.
NEXT> Christine Downey: So we are fully transparent. Everything that we do is public. And so if you go to the Stevens High School website and you simply click on the Parent and

[R9328-210] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Robin: this, how to make this fit for all of the opportunities that we can have with partnerships, with tech centers, with all of these things. And so kids can are not don't feel trapped inside the school and they can have all these other opportunities.
TEXT> So we are fully transparent. Everything that we do is public. And so if you go to the Stevens High School website and you simply click on the Parent and Student Resource tab and go down  on most of the bottom of the page, there is a folder there that says SHS scheduling committee. Our minutes are there, everything is there. It's totally transparent.
NEXT> Robin: Do you have another thing that shows any of the minutes?

[R9328-222] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' [67,160,552] an | 2017-09-20
PREV> Christine Downey: I'm not wasting my time. Right. You know, unless so because, you know, we need to be efficient with the research we do in the models we're looking for. So we haven't really gotten into the weeds of some of those specific aspects just yet.
TEXT> I think we  ever have. Do we have the option I guess is more to the administration? Do we have that option for I know schools have been where we've had on Wednesdays, where those were usually a half day, so that teachers could use that time. I imagine in this new model, students would not necessarily we could have situations, I guess, where students weren't dismissed for the day, but would be in if we had a very flexible schedule, they would be able to still be in their school day, but give the teachers flexibility.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: But I think it's.

[R9328-227] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. So.
TEXT> If I were just starting out, I would be quite confused about what really you guys are all about. So I think that we kind of need to take this back for a second so that the community can understand to that. This is awesome. You're all collaborating. Are there any parents of students on board this time?
NEXT> Unidentified: No.

[R9328-236] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, presiding as acting chair in the absenc | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So what can we do to open, I guess, for there to be more members, I guess on the committee is what I'm hearing. You're asking so what what can we do as the board for that?
TEXT> I think what what they're looking for is, at least in my mind, parents, students, higher ed, perhaps.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Actually not necessarily. We I think we identified that the.

[R9328-243] Christine Downey | Stevens High School scheduling committee co-lead (introduced by Lariss | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: We don't have a rap on our committee.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. So, you know, we want to make sure that we're representing all the key players and definitely a student. That would be awesome. That would be cool.  The one thing I bring to this whole process is I don't bring any history. Being the newest member to the team, I can kind of say, okay, let's look at the process, right? How do we do this process well and develop a schedule. And we did spend a fair amount of time, as Corey has already alluded to, to checking our egos out the door, checking our titles at the door and saying, look, we have to function as a group of how do we do that? And how do we do that with integrity. That stands the test of time. We're all going to get push. We're going to be pushed by our people that we reach out and we represent, but we've got to build those relationships so that people trust what we're doing  and that when we have to present some difficult things, we can do it. And we we have that stakeholder by. That's an important aspect of our work.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I just wanted to say, you know, lots happened since. January. 2017 when there was a memorandum of understanding. And I am very, very comfortable where we are now knowing

[R9328-256] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'd feel comfortable with Middleton. I think managing that process, as our, as sort of the intermediary between your group and our group, I think I think that he would he has the perspective, I think, to operate in everyone's best interest if you're okay.
TEXT> With it. And this committee has momentum, this committee is moving. This committee is not going to be a closed shop, though. They're going to be transparent. They said that they're going to be communicating with you and the community through CCTV. So, I think I recommend we take a step back, say go for it. With the understanding their accountable, the understanding they're going to be keeping us up to date. And that at the end of the day, it's got to be affordable. But more importantly, even though money is important. It has to be accepted by the community meeting the needs of students.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I, I just want to say that the the timeline was created for a reason. Obviously, we all know that the flip flop and the confusion and the frustration and

[R9328-258] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (committee administrator: 'as Corey ha | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: timelines, and maybe we need to revamp the timelines and say, okay, this timeline, we will expect this because if we just say no timeline and go, I'm afraid that even if you I don't feel that, I feel it's important to have the timeline.
TEXT> I think we've outlined that in the pieces. So we're not saying we're we're not going to have anything. Sorry, Becky, but no, it's fine. We will know what the schedule is by the end of the school year. We just we don't want to implement that come next September if it's going to be detrimental for students and teachers. And so we'll know what the schedule is going to be. There will be pieces that we will be able to implement next fall, which is the original timeline. It will be full implementation after that. So you'll  you'll have your results and you'll know exactly what is going to happen. It's just a matter of that actual implementation of that. We need to be cognizant of if Lexi needs eight credits her senior year and we create a schedule, pretend it was your junior that only allows for six. We've now put her in a really tough spot, and so that's what we want to keep in mind with the implementation piece of things.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So and I.

[R9328-261] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: Think that will be adhered to.
TEXT> And I think that's great. And that's, you know, perfect because rather than shoving it all in at once and having exactly what that gentleman just mentioned  happened with his students, that you are going to take it piece by piece, you know, just having just making sure that we're meeting those, those different frames, that's all.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Becky. Then Middleton then we're going to close this discussion.

[R9328-303] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, presiding as acting chair in the absenc | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. I suspect that I see National Honor Society. I see Mrs. Collison as a relationship I think Karen student National Honor Society.
NEXT> Unidentified: If I could call Lexi Grenier up and Corey up Lexi will explain why why we're here.

[R9328-330] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (called up as 'Pat' [191], 'Pat Barry'  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: With you?
TEXT> To be determined. So you're receiving a a very preliminary itinerary for the Washington, D.C. trip. And also a nice memory from Patrick Driver, who is planning a trip to Italy. And I'll let her obviously speak to her trip. And  Truscott is up here to speak from the perspective of a ninth grade student who would be one of the recipients of being able to potentially go on this trip. So in many, many, many districts, prior to students coming into the high school, they have opportunities in earlier grades to take trips to New York, to Philadelphia, to Washington, D.C., so that when they're they come to the high school and they're now in a civics  or economics or U.S. history class, they've they've had an opportunity to see their, their capital and to to have some a perhaps a greater appreciation of the, of the curriculum. Students in Claremont don't have that opportunity at this point in time. And so we at the high school, have been searching for ways to open up opportunities for travel, and I've been waiting for some teachers to  step up to say that they would take this on. And it's it's a huge task. And so Caccia first approached me a couple of months ago and said she was very interested in doing a trip to Italy with students in the summer.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And very recently, Nancy Lewis approached me as one of our social studies teachers and said she would be willing to take on the task of co-sponsoring the Washington, D.C.

[R9328-331] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (called up as 'Pat' [191], 'Pat Barry'  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patricia Barry: to step up to say that they would take this on. And it's it's a huge task. And so Caccia first approached me a couple of months ago and said she was very interested in doing a trip to Italy with students in the summer.
TEXT> And very recently, Nancy Lewis approached me as one of our social studies teachers and said she would be willing to take on the task of co-sponsoring the Washington, D.C. trip for our ninth graders and potentially our 10th graders in the first year. I've had the privilege of working with F tours in the past as a middle school principal and going to Washington, D.C. with this group. They are an exceptional organization. They make the fundraising easy. I also had the benefit of coming in to a system where they had been doing this trip for about nine years prior to me coming on board, so it was a very well established thing in the community, which we would be starting from scratch here. And we have nothing built into our budget to supplement students at this point in that system. There was a a chunk of money set aside to for scholarship for students who couldn't afford or to help supplement students who had financial need. We think this first year that we can gather some money together from our budget to be able to do that to some degree. When I come back to in budget season and I talk about a line item that I want to add into my budget for this, this is my this is my pre argument to you for that.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: This is a very aggressive agenda and, and it's and you'll see it's not in the price range that we want to get it. We want to get it to

[R9328-335] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' [67,160,552] an | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> So that's how many, as you know, this, but how many students would.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Your your price goes down, obviously the more you can get. But you know, there's there's that price break where if you go into a third bus but you can't

[R9328-336] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (called up as 'Pat' [191], 'Pat Barry'  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patrick Adrian: So that's how many, as you know, this, but how many students would.
TEXT> Your your price goes down, obviously the more you can get. But you know, there's there's that price break where if you go into a third bus but you can't fill the third bus, you're, you're spending more money. So ideally two busses going down with 80 students is the sweet spot. And if we can do that, I would say it was a grand success. If we can fill one bus with 40 students, I would still see that as a success. And a and a, you know, a step in the right direction.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Michelle.

[R9328-338] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Michelle.
TEXT> How are you going to be able to earn the money per student?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It'll be on the students until we can build something significant or, you know, stable into the budget as a line item. That's their and and this is the case

[R9328-340] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Patricia Barry: instead of getting me a bike from my birthday or giving me cash for my birthday, can you put it into my F tour account for me to go to Washington, D.C.? They also offer some scholarships through F tours that students can apply. So.
TEXT> So if you have 20 students that would need that, they can apply. Right okay. And when I mean are there obviously if we are we're looking for a motion to approve. You going forward with this?  I mean, it's in April, so there would be time to fundraise, car wash, Christmas wrap, all kinds of things that they could be doing to earn that money. Also as a yeah, if.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Comes would come in. And that's why the urgency with coming to the board and getting your approval, because the if we get your approval, I can call the F

[R9328-341] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (called up as 'Pat' [191], 'Pat Barry'  | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: looking for a motion to approve. You going forward with this? I mean, it's in April, so there would be time to fundraise, car wash, Christmas wrap, all kinds of things that they could be doing to earn that money. Also as a yeah, if.
TEXT> Comes would come in. And that's why the urgency with coming to the board and getting your approval, because the if we get your approval, I can call the F tour tomorrow, set up a parent meeting where they come up with their representatives. We get the parents from the ninth and 10th graders at Stevens, and they set this whole plan in motion. And that's when the accounts can be set up and students can start the fundraising and we move forward. It's it's already tight. Normally we would have started this in an ideal year. We would have started this in the spring of 17 for the trip in the spring of 18. And that's the other thing. This would be during April vacation, so it wouldn't be coming out of school time. So that's the other. The other plus they're not losing school days to this.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I went to Germany for a month in high school, and it was a lot of car washes and hours at McDonald's. So I think this is fantastic. It builds

[R9328-352] Unidentified | Unidentified - ninth grade student speaking for the Washington, D.C. t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: I've had the fortunate experience of going to Washington, D.C. for a fuel up to play 60 thing with the USDA, and just in one day I learned so much, and I had a fantastic opportunity with that to see all the monuments and everything.
TEXT> And I'm sure there would be countless other students who would really enjoy and get something out of that when they would go to D.C. and for people to travel and see different parts of the world besides New Hampshire and Vermont and New England would be a really great experience for them as well. So. Thank you. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Patrick.

[R9328-362] Unidentified | Unidentified - music teacher, Stevens High School (2012 alumna), propo | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: year. And that for me, just built me as a person. And then in college, I actually went and I studied abroad in the summer in Italy. And so I stayed on the coast, the east coast of Italy and, take classes Monday through Thursday.
TEXT> And I spent three days. I spent three days in each of the places on this tour. So for me, this would be super cool to bring a handful of students to, specifically my music students, because not only would they see this amazing culture with best food ever besides my mom's, I could lend the musical ear that I want to give them to this because when I went to those places as a music major, obviously those that's where I gravitated to. And being in Rome in  the world's biggest cathedral basilica and hearing music played, it's just like I cry a little bit. So yeah, this for me, I would be extremely comfortable taking students on because I am familiar with each of the places on this trip and that. Yeah. And besides teaching and music, travel is like, that's the other thing that I love to do. And I go somewhere every summer, and I've planned three trips that I've done on my own, so I'm very comfortable going around, and I would love to give the opportunity to students because it's something I'm passionate about. And I'm actually on Thursdays for the next month and a half. I'm doing a travel club during flex, teaching kids like the tricks to like, planning their own experience for when they're adults and stuff, because I knew nothing until I went to college.
NEXT> Unidentified: I parents always did it. And then and also, like you said, you went to Germany. I did the Germany trip. I worked at McDonald's my entire senior year to

[R9328-363] Unidentified | Unidentified - music teacher, Stevens High School (2012 alumna), propo | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: And I'm actually on Thursdays for the next month and a half. I'm doing a travel club during flex, teaching kids like the tricks to like, planning their own experience for when they're adults and stuff, because I knew nothing until I went to college.
TEXT> I parents always did it. And then and also, like you said, you went to Germany. I did the Germany trip. I worked at McDonald's my entire senior year to go to the Germany trip in the summer. Before that, I worked at McDonald's the entire year to go to a band camp for $1,200. Yeah. So I think that's very important. And just like the DC trip, this offers, the, it's like they create their account on this page and it's like a GoFundMe, but when their parents or grandparents donate their money, their gifts to this account, it comes to me out of the total. So it just brings it down and down. And it's also monthly or by weekly payment plan for this too. So even if you're a student earning $100 a week, you could afford this by next summer. Questions?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: How many students are you planning and do you need a board member to go?

[R9328-364] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: comes to me out of the total. So it just brings it down and down. And it's also monthly or by weekly payment plan for this too. So even if you're a student earning $100 a week, you could afford this by next summer. Questions?
TEXT> How many students are you planning and do you need a board member to go?
NEXT> Unidentified: You're welcome to come. The adult supplements more because you'd get your own room not sharing with kids, obviously. And they do. The girls in one room, boys in another.

[R9328-365] Unidentified | Unidentified - music teacher, Stevens High School (2012 alumna), propo | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: How many students are you planning and do you need a board member to go?
TEXT> You're welcome to come. The adult supplements more because you'd get your own room not sharing with kids, obviously. And they do. The girls in one room, boys in another. I would need I would bring six students and we get paired. They have a coach bus of 40, so we'd get matched up with students from California and Texas and Florida  who are also going. So then they just make these connections not only to a different culture, but to a different part of the United States as well, which is super cool. And the best part is they have like a guarantee if any, like if a hurricane stops their flight, they just postpone the trip and nobody has to pay extra and then we can go later. So it's like very safe, very guaranteed. This company has been doing educational tours for over 50 years. It's super cool. The person I've been working with is,  just awesome. Very organized. Answers everything I need. I made up this little thing just to give out to parents. But. Yeah. Do you have fun?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Do you feel like you have six students?

[R9328-366] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Michel' [174] and 'Miche | 2017-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: has been doing educational tours for over 50 years. It's super cool. The person I've been working with is, just awesome. Very organized. Answers everything I need. I made up this little thing just to give out to parents. But. Yeah. Do you have fun?
TEXT> Do you feel like you have six students?
NEXT> Unidentified: I have over 20 that have said they're interested. Yeah. So I feel like I could get six.

[R9328-371] Unidentified | Unidentified - music teacher, Stevens High School (2012 alumna), propo | 2017-09-20
PREV> Michelle Pierce: What you get another chapter.
TEXT> Yeah. If I get. So if I hit six students I go with them. If I hit 12, I get another chaperon 18 and so on.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Okay.

[R9328-391] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right, Middleton school board policies first read.
TEXT> Thank you. Before you are two. Policies the wellness policy change in some federal law. Minor language change and administering medication to students. Adding insulin. We don't have insulin currently. We need to add insulin as it meets the needs of some students who can self-administered with parents and physicians approval. Without this policy addition, we have problems with students meeting their medical needs. So with the minor minor adjustment on both cases.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Discussion I have a question. Who you know when you send them to us the policies and draft form. Who types those up?

[R9328-393] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Doctor Goodwin' and 'Middleton' t | 2017-09-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Discussion I have a question. Who you know when you send them to us the policies and draft form. Who types those up?
TEXT> I  take the policy, I do, I take the policy that exists and I make changes to the language it comes from. In this case, it came from the school nurses.  I'm talking about the  the administration administering medication, students. The school nurses helped craft that policy two years ago with their recommendation. And I shared it with them to vet it. I make the changes they vetted and it's before you.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I love it, so I'm just wondering if when they're sent out, if you can just highlight or whomever types of month can just highlight the change part just because

[R9354-4] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: But if the if certain people didn't know that they were thinking, you know, they don't know what, we're really working hard to build community to how we how we help children in the elementary school develop a positive and collaborative relationships, age appropriate relationships.
TEXT> So the reason I'm, I'm, I'm bringing this up is that one of the greatest challenges we have right now is communication. And that  my hope is and my plan is to, as I said at the  city Council meeting, school board meeting last Thursday, the goal is to develop engagement because the challenges we are facing in a community, whether it be whether it be racism, whether it be bullying, whether it be diversity, this is not a school district issue. This is a community issue. And what's positive is that we're willing to talk about it.  Students, staff, school board, sit, city council, parents, residents be a part of this discussion. But if there is some defensiveness like, you know, I'm doing the best I can.  I  don't know what more I can do. And if we get defensive, we unintentionally will become disconnected. And if we become disconnected, we're not going to be communicating. So my hope is,  is that through the work of the policies and providing opportunities for the parent voice, the faculty voice, the administration voice, the student voice, the residents voice having opportunities to have a give or take  over the next several months at predetermined times. We will, as a community, come together and clarify and have some specific plans.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But I can tell you right now, this process is not going to be let's buy something and fix it. It's going to take time and it has to be

[R9354-8] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: going to go forward, we have to be willing to appropriately talk about the elephant in the room. And then to together, without pointing fingers or accusations or excuses. Build, build. And the ultimate benefit of the entire community, just not our students. Thank you.
TEXT> Just not on this. But just to note, we forgot to add the student rep report to our agenda.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We can make room.

[R9354-38] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Do we have an update of that we could have for next week?
TEXT> So we did a whole presentation last time on the schedule. And one of the things that was a significant, I thought component of that was,  the the. The phases, there's a there's a year long plan that we've developed. Each phase is identified in terms of its timeline, the outcomes and expectations, and there are checkpoints built in throughout the entire process so that feedback is sought from multiple stakeholder groups, including the the school board. So  when we start to implement a different schedule or a new schedule or whatever schedule, it will not be a surprise to anyone. And that was that was something that the committee,  felt very passionate about, that this was not going to be a surprise to everyone. Everyone's going to have an opportunity for input along the way, and that the product developed would be something that everybody supports. All of that information that we presented last meeting is on the, Stephen's High school web page. I just want to give you the correct link.  So the committee that has been formed, all of the meeting minutes are posted under I believe it's under student parent Resources.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Are there going to be further updates, though? I mean, this this plan. Absolutely. My question was it's it's not something that's set that it's a go. We're still going

[R9354-42] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Sure.
TEXT> To make one comment, Michelle, let me just thank you for your comment. The Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement was signed in January 2007. Ten months later. We're in a very different place to honor those words, and that intent ten months later would be counterproductive. We knew where we were in January 2017. Going down this road, it was necessary to adapt. We're not compromising. We're not giving anything up, if you will.  We're not discarding anything other than to produce the document that you, by the way, need to approve. It's not going to be given to you. This is what we're doing. You need to approve it, and the community needs to know of it as is being built. That's going to occur. So but if we were to hold firm to that document dated January 2017 and have it everything done by by the way, March of 2018, it would have to be done by then to be scheduled and have students aligned and then to have the school ready to go in September 2018 would be  would be very, very short sighted.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just want to point out, though, that it was done successfully when the schedule was changed and everything was completely overhauled and and there was a committee prior to

[R9354-44] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: sure that that we're not getting, you know, so carried away with this, that, that we're losing sight of the importance of why we're doing it to begin with. And that time frame was built around what I feel like that's what we were doing.
TEXT> The time frame was built around the lack of confidence that the groups would get together and work in an amicable way toward a product, and so it was very rigid. This is what you've got to do to get it done or this will happen.  Fly forward 7 or 8 months. Very different place, very different working relationship, very different players. And the progress that is being made. It would be very kind of productive to hold firm to that schedule. So that's why I'm saying the the whole terrain has changed from where we were in January. The mindset, the attitude has changed since January 2017. So we're accountable to you. We're accountable to the Claremont community. We meeting the faculty, the administration,  and we're going to be even looking at that document. It talked about transparency, letting faculty know, letting parents know students know. So this is going to be a document that's not going to be suddenly uncovered like a Christmas present. And here it is. This is going to be built in a public way.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And again, I don't I don't see that as the issue. As much as I want to make sure that, you know, I get the rigid blah, blah, blah, but

[R9354-47] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well.
TEXT> We'll we'll make sure we get updates progress.  So with that, we're going to,  get the student report in.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: All right. So for those of you that weren't here last week, I'm Lexi Grenier. I'm a senior at Stevens. So last week was a busy one for Stevens. Last

[R9354-48] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (self-identified; A | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: We'll we'll make sure we get updates progress. So with that, we're going to, get the student report in.
TEXT> All right.  So for those of you that weren't here last week, I'm Lexi Grenier. I'm a senior at Stevens.  So last week was a busy one for Stevens. Last Tuesday, we were honored to have recycled percussion performed for us in the Stevens High School gym. Everyone were white, close. So? So our school spirit and the marching band even played the school song before the live Vegas style concert commenced. Prior to that, Justin and Ryan, who are the recycled percussion  went around to various classrooms and visited with students. Bring light and love to certain students who have special stories to tell. Students and staff were met with hugs, flowers, and words of support and encouragement. Recycled percussions. Television show Chaos and Kindness will air the episode they filmed at Stevens on Friday, October 6th at 7 p.m. on WMUR. So be on the lookout. The message they left us with is that no one is more important than anyone else. Everyone matters and kindness doesn't cost anything. The next day, which was Wednesday, September 27th, which Doctor Mick Goodwin spoke about was Community Service Day. Groups of advisories went to Fort number four to help close up for the season.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: They spread bark, mulch and did other playground maintenance at all three elementary schools. A lot of my friends went to the elementary schools, and they mentioned how fun it

[R9354-50] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (self-identified; A | 2017-10-04
PREV> Lexi Grenier: School. Everything you guys do for us. So thank you. Last Friday night was the Stevens High School homecoming dance. I went with some of my close friends and had an amazing time. I'm sure everyone else that went had a great time as well.
TEXT> This year's homecoming king is Brendan Behan, and this year's homecoming queen is Chelsea melnick. Congratulations to you both. If you're watching, because neither of them are here. So  this Tuesday, we had 36 students from the junior and senior class go on a college visit to Unh. Over 100 various schools we represented, including four year schools, two year schools and technical colleges. I'm probably going to pronounce his name wrong, so bear with me. What award winning composer and performer will be working with the band tomorrow? I believe  the Sri Lanka born, Canada based artist has performed all around the world and throughout North America and venues such as Carnegie Hall, the Kennedy Center, and with artists such as Yo-Yo Ma and his Silk Road Ensemble. The band inquire will be performing at the Farmer's Market at 4 p.m. tomorrow night's. Later in October. The band is also pretty busy. So on the 14th, the Stevens High School Marching Band will perform in the Dover Marching Band show.  And that's where a bunch of high schools get together and we all perform our field shows for each other, and it's pretty exciting.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: It's a long night, but pretty fun. On the 28th, Stevens High School Band will perform in the halftime show at UMass Band Day at Gillette Stadium. Guidance has scheduled

[R9354-52] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (self-identified; A | 2017-10-04
PREV> Lexi Grenier: club members who want to learn the roles of on camera hosts, reporters, social media models, Facebook experts, video editors, photographers and videographers. I am honored to also be a part of this as long as student voice and student voices starting tomorrow during flex.
TEXT> So that's pretty exciting for me. Just more to add to my busy schedule already.  Here are some sports updates.  Girls varsity soccer took a 2 to 0 win on Windsor High School last Thursday, September 28th. Girls JV soccer took a 5 to 0 win on Inter Lakes last Tuesday, September 26th was the boys varsity soccer won against Canaan High School yesterday with a score of 12 to 0. Varsity field hockey won 4 to 0 against Kearsarge High School last Saturday, September 30th. Jay-Z field hockey one last Wednesday against John Stark Regional High School with a score of 1 to 0. Varsity football won their last game Saturday, September 30th against Kearsarge High School with a score of 36 to 8. Gulf won both matches on Monday against Camphill High School and Guilford High School. Congratulations to all the athletes for the amazing games they won today. Over 200 students signed a card for the victims and their families involved with the Las Vegas shootings. We had a huge table, probably as these long, as long as these two tables put together, and it was just lined with paper and everyone signed their names and wrote messages of love and support.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: And they are being delivered to recycled percussion in Las Vegas. Justin shared that he had several friends who were shot at the concert for who luckily survived, and they

[R9354-116] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I just thought it would be important to have an update as to to your your work on on Saturday the 30th. So I'll defer to anyone who would like to review this, and then I'm sure there'll be some discussions or question perhaps, but.
TEXT> So I guess, I was met on Saturday 30th, just kind of put forth that we were thinking and kind of get a cohesive feeling of what everybody's thinking.  We were going for the budget.  Brian and Michelle were not able to make it,  as noted.  Basically, and nutshell, what came out of it is that we as Claremont, Claremont taxpayers are a bit of a crisis. And we decided as a board that was, you know, us over there and decided that we would like to try to,  positively affect the tax rate.  And what we came up with was looking to cut  off the top when you come to us with the budget. The 1.2 million,  which would affect the tax rate about $1.70. For thousands, if our numbers are correct.  Doing that, the intent is that it will not  affect the students, will not affect teachers in a negative fashion.  There's the feeling that there's room in the budget and in certain, you know, different areas that we really need to take a look at and,  you know, see where these where we can tighten our belts, where we can cut back. It's not a small task, and it's not something we take lightly.  As a board. And I know it's,  you know, it's difficult. It was a good discussion, but a difficult. I mean, 1.2 million is a it is a difficult number to come up with.  But we feel it's there. So.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I'd like to. Can we do we have any. I'd like to get the numbers for the percentage of staff that makes up the budget.

[R9354-147] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Longevity, longevity.
TEXT> I, I believe that we have  we're, we're on the top side and we're going to be because there's going to be a lot of retired folks coming up for retirement. On the upper half. So I want to, you know, kind of start looking to it. You know, how we're replacing them cost wise reductions, you know, teaching how many students, you know, what's the reduction of students per school?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Rebecca.

[R9354-149] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Rebecca.
TEXT> Really quickly, one comment and one question.  My comment is I just want you guys to know that,  we I feel like I can speak for all of us when I say we totally understand the situation with the state and the the, you know, budget cuts through state and the funding and the lack of resources and in that kind of thing. I just want you to know that we do know and we do  get it. And my question is, and it may not be the right time, but,  how could we get a breakdown of the cost per pupil?
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, that was I was just kind of go I forgot to mention that from from a pure process standpoint because clearly this is what we were taught. We all

[R9354-248] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Unidentified: Some successfully, not.
TEXT> Some success. And then there are other kids that come in and we still we have to it's it's just it's revolving. And it's been like that since I've been on the board.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Are you thinking more.

[R9354-266] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Because we have we have a few.
TEXT> Kids that go to.
NEXT> Chris: The day program down in Brattleboro. So you have the tuition part and then you have the transportation part of it, and the transportation part is almost equal to the

[R9354-267] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6 (first name only on record: LeClair  | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Kids that go to.
TEXT> The day program down in Brattleboro. So you have the tuition part and then you have the transportation part of it, and the transportation part is almost equal to the tuition there. So Brattleboro. Is ready. They would like to set up a satellite program. If we have the space available, they are ready to do something. Second semester of this year, start small and then and then ramp up because they got a higher staff and all. But they would like to have one. They're looking at something up here in the, in  the, in this valley,  whether it's here or somewhere else. But I would really like to find the ability for us to do it here because in, in our own,  in our own space, if you will. Because then what that does is that that that opens up opportunities, possibly for other kids and sort of agreements with Brattleboro, and it opens up a whole other dialog around  accepting other kids and from, from various districts.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So and cutting the cost and.

[R9354-276] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Chris: You're you're forced.
TEXT> To spend 90 to $100 per kid per day.
NEXT> Chris: Or more more.

[R9354-298] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: course, if you're involved with instrumental music, if you take a tech center course, your points will go down. Now, I'm not sour grapes, I'm just saying I think it'd be important to ask the high school faculty, the high school administration to revisit this.
TEXT> It's not the high school's responsibility, but I. I want to do what results in students not competing against each other, but rather working toward learning. It's not about I'm number one. I'm number two. Because the truth is the number one, number true, true isn't truly number one and number two. So and if this if you agree to this when you're going to have future presentations coming back at you for the discussion and the public must be involved with this,  I would anticipate a phase in whatever that is if, in fact, we go down this road. So that's what this is about.  And  I brought it I brought it forth a couple of years ago. It didn't go very far.  I want to revisit it again. I am in the process of collecting information from other school districts in New Hampshire. Across our nation. School districts are discontinuing the practice  because they understand, in fact,  a  of what the documentation shows it is. So if you're if you're interested, we can proceed with the understanding, more information, more discussion  and some recommendations  which you will either approve or not approve.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Then, Michelle.

[R9354-300] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Then, Michelle.
TEXT> And you know, I'm fine with, you know, with proceeding and seeing what what faculty and members of the community can, can do.  Frankly, I, I guess it's one of these these things. I've always just accepted that little competition. I mean, some competition is not. Yeah. It's not it's it's not a bad thing so much as it's a part of life. I my I guess I kind of been looking at it. I do understand the situation. My my thing is, I'm not so much worried about trying to fix, make, make valedictorian, salutatorian, for example, making them more accurate. I see them as, I don't know how you can make a we put a lot of value on them. I honestly kind of see and I think that they are they are achievements, but they're very quant. They're very quantitative. They're based on their based on GPA and certain weights. I really think, you know, I think one of the coolest things in this community is and I apologize if I get the name of the award, but that, that Evan Lord would because that is to me, that's where I, I would put the value because that represent me, that those are students not only have the GPA, but they are they really represent what you know, that that rounded student that we want that I think that most people want to to monton be the model.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Selected by the faculty. Michelle.

[R9354-303] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So.
TEXT> I have kind of a two part question of that. Why why can't  this be added into the whole scheduling,  criteria and have it be part of your you're building a new curriculum, you're looking at it basing a new curriculum and a new style of, of of  of scheduling. And, and personally, I feel that almost kind of lands in the same place as that be and warrants looking at it from that perspective as opposed to the old fashioned way in that and respect to  first and second, we're sports orientated community and and it's basically, you know, yes, we're a team, but you know, it is, you know, kind of that way. So it's going to be interesting to see if you take and change the personification and make it a, well, a well-rounded student as opposed to, you know, because their GPA was high or whatever. You know, I feel that should fall under the scheduling part of it. I think that should be a part of the scheduling. And because if you're if you're scheduling children to be able to access as much as they want, then shouldn't that reflect the person that has that highest achievement? Not necessarily because their GPA school was high?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, I, I understand what you're thinking about. I think the scheduling discussion is complicated enough. And I think it should be done separately because we don't know what's going

[R9354-304] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: that should be a part of the scheduling. And because if you're if you're scheduling children to be able to access as much as they want, then shouldn't that reflect the person that has that highest achievement? Not necessarily because their GPA school was high?
TEXT> Well, I, I understand what you're thinking about. I think the scheduling discussion is complicated enough.  And I think it should be done separately because we don't know what's going to happen with the scheduling. And this is my feeling, and  I think it's a valid discussion to have class rank and. I think it I think we should keep at least that part of it separate. But you know what? Like what Patrick was saying, I feel that,  there are a lot of different ways that it can be done, whether it's, it's a combination  of of students voting for their their like a class president or class captain or however you want, you want to put it, as well as teachers also putting  their spin on it. I think it's I think it's a worthwhile discussion.  Mike. And then Frank.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah, I, I think it's worthwhile looking at the senior lunch, we had this, the graduating seniors, I sit with a group of students, and, this came up, the one

[R9354-308] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: And then do you have something else after. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> It's a little more clarity on Middleton being very aware of the situation that Middleton is talking about in that the student example he used, this young person was very capable of doing AP,  National Merit finalist, which is the highest score you can get on the National Merit qualifying. So the choices that were made there were not about couldn't, but taking theater and music and such a person very easily could have gotten the same grades. The system is and and Pat's here and I'm preaching to the choir to her  is that we wait certain grades at Stevens, certain courses at Stevens High School. The honors courses are weighted, AP courses are weighted, and maybe running start as well. And because those are college courses. So students who take those when they get an A get a five on their GPA as opposed to a regular course where they get a four so they don't lose points when they take a course here at CTE, they just don't gain the weight. So students who make that decision to do, CTE or they make the decision to do music and art instead of the AP history course. Those students who take those courses then have an advantage, GPA wise. One model that a lot of schools do are just simply valedictory groups where your cuts are Faurot  or above three, five and above in three zero and above.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just like in college. You've got Dean's list, you've got cum laude, summa cum laude, magna cum laude. Those are the types of models that that other schools have gone

[R9354-319] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Well I think.
TEXT> We're all we're being asked right now is to say go ahead and look at this. Yeah. And what my experience has been when I, when, when my daughter went to college and we were looking at colleges, this like the old grading system is becoming a thing of the past. From what I saw, it isn't a big deal. And to cut to the chase and talk about the 800 pound elephant, valedictorian is a great thing. But other than getting to give the speech and the recognition, what's it about? It's about the scholarships. And the reality is here, most of the scholarships usually go to that that person and not that they're not deserving in any way, shape or form. But Frank and I were talking about this earlier, very many times. That person who is deserving also be has has the best means for not necessarily needing that scholarship money, but other very qualified students don't have a shot because they don't have that title. So where I was going with this is a I absolutely think we need to look at this and come up with a different way. I don't know what that way is, but something that's based legitimately on  I love the Lord, I, Lord award idea. But before we go there, to Frank's point, I think we need to because they're the givers of the most money in the entire country and the oldest alumni association in the entire country.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think we need to bring the alumni association into this and get their thoughts, because ultimately, if we change and say, no more valedictorian. I love the idea because

[R9354-320] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Chris Irish: based legitimately on I love the Lord, I, Lord award idea. But before we go there, to Frank's point, I think we need to because they're the givers of the most money in the entire country and the oldest alumni association in the entire country.
TEXT> I think we need to bring the alumni association into this and get their thoughts, because ultimately, if we change and say, no more valedictorian. I love the idea because normally they just valedictorian. Here's a check, here's your check. And I don't think that's fair is not the right word. But I think they're very kids that you're the perfect example. You're just as deserving. It's that same scholarship, but because of some weird calculation. And I'd love to get away from your valedictorian, here's a check I'd like to say here's your check. Because you deserve a check. Because you did all these things.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Because I'm I'm in the top ten of my class. Sorry to interrupt you, but I'm in, like, the top ten of my class, and I know when I graduated,

[R9354-322] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Lexi Grenier: Because I'm I'm in the top ten of my class. Sorry to interrupt you, but I'm in, like, the top ten of my class, and I know when I graduated, I will not be valid because I've taken band and choir all four years.
TEXT> When I guess to the point it it shouldn't be a competition, it should be a recognition of achievement. And somehow we have a lot of kids that are at the same level of it, but only these two get to rise up for no other reason. Then this calculation  I don't have any.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Which is which is the schedule.

[R9354-330] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes. Revisiting the lead screening policy.
TEXT> Right. The, the state law RSA 141 C semicolon 20-A. Requires students to receive immunization for specific diseases. Diseases, by the way, that are infectious or transmissible from person to person. The lead poisoning is not transmissible from person to person. So as a result,  the New Hampshire state law regarding immunization does not require LED screen. Let's lead poisoning screening to occur. We attempted to bring that forward. It was a $3 million price tag and it went into committee. So where I'm going with this is simply this. I would recommend that I come back to you at the next meeting with a revised draft  of the lead screening policy that will allow a parent to opt out, because we do not by law,  the law does not require lead screening, however, and so it cannot be. It's not enforceable.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: However.

[R9354-333] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: The importance of lead screening is immeasurable. So I don't think this in any way compromises the policy, but it's not enforceable. What is it. Forcible is the state law. But lead screening is not part of the state law. So it's not enforceable.
TEXT> My understanding I thought Clermont was a universal testing, so it was required to be tested. Kids were required to be tested. Okay. That was my understanding as a universal.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: The concern was we had one, Member of the community, and she was concerned because she felt that it was an invasion of privacy and also, that the test scores

[R9354-334] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: My understanding I thought Clermont was a universal testing, so it was required to be tested. Kids were required to be tested. Okay. That was my understanding as a universal.
TEXT> The concern was we had one, Member of the community, and she was concerned because she felt that it was an invasion of privacy and also, that the test scores would be seen by vast amounts of people, which they're not. We reassured her, however, she was looking for a waiver stating that if her child turns six during the time, or seven during the time that the testing was being asked to be done, there was kind of an encounter between the nurse and her. So in miscommunication,  but she brought up the point of and I think where this is all going is about having a waiver, having it so that if if there is that parent, there is one parent out there that doesn't want their kid tested, regardless that they have the right to refuse that and not be refused school.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Frank.

[R9354-341] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: That.
TEXT> We, I don't know the high levels of special ed crime and mental health. And Claremont suggests there has not been enough level led screening assessments of children at any age. I just think that there's another way of saying that without making it sound like.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Good, even just say that the the. Lack of test results show that people haven't been getting assessments. Yeah. Something.

[R9354-346] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: irreversible, if that's a fact. But I don't even see the need for any of the stuff previous to that. And the second, thing I wanted to share. Well, actually, I have a question now that I'm thinking of it. Are there waivers for immunizations?
TEXT> Yes there are. If a child is homeless, comes in from another community, the McKinney Vento federal law, we cannot say you cannot enter because you don't have a human records. Okay. And there's also religious exemptions. So there are the world is not as black and white as we would think. But my whole spirit behind this is to not to dilute or to take away this policy. This policy is is critical. And I know that other districts  have asked for this policy and proceeding with it, perhaps some of the wordsmithing may occur,  but the reality is the New Hampshire state statute does not support you to require lead screening.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. So that brings me to my thought. As a parent, I don't feel comfortable telling any parent in this district that they are required to have a lead screening.

[R9354-347] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: policy. This policy is is critical. And I know that other districts have asked for this policy and proceeding with it, perhaps some of the wordsmithing may occur, but the reality is the New Hampshire state statute does not support you to require lead screening.
TEXT> Okay. So that brings me to my thought. As a parent, I don't feel comfortable telling any parent in this district that they are required to have a lead screening. I don't feel like it's my place to tell people what they should and shouldn't do with their children. I know how I feel about it,  but as far as lead screening goes, there's no no child is going to be infected. And I absolutely think there should be a waiver or an opportunity for a parent who feel strongly about it to not have to go through with the lead led screening.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And because you weren't here for a lot of the building of the policy and the the information and the processes and the programs that were presented to us during

[R9354-348] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: far as lead screening goes, there's no no child is going to be infected. And I absolutely think there should be a waiver or an opportunity for a parent who feel strongly about it to not have to go through with the lead led screening.
TEXT> And because you weren't here for a lot of the building of the policy and the the information and the processes and the programs that were presented to us during the time of building this policy is imperative that you know that it isn't it? It is something that you could think about like this. Your children. You guys, them when they go to school.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Some people don't.

[R9354-363] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Chris Irish: I remember that, too.
TEXT> But state law requires  doctors to test  children. Yeah.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: It's just something that we don't have to know it now, I guess something to, you know, when we come back to I.

[R9354-367] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: positive side and how important it is. We do live in a, you know, in, in an architect, a world that's elderly. We live in a world where our buildings aren't, you know, built in the 1970s and beyond, there in the 1970s in past.
TEXT> Right. And, you know, I, I think the points for me, I think, I think this policy was mostly done to as a stopgap because it's supposed to be done and it's more like, kids never been tested for lead and, you know, it should be done and then surprise, you know, it's a possibility. Hey, your child's been poisoned. And it's just sort of a stopgap to make sure that  kids aren't falling through the cracks. It's supposed to be done.  In a perfect world, it's already supposed to have been done when there are children anyways. But that's that's the reason I.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I understand, I just wanted to make sure that they're still had a choice.

[R9354-372] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: The diversity plan.
TEXT> I think, in retrospect, we've been talking about this quite a bit tonight, even though it's now on the agenda. But  I,  I very much like to develop a subcommittee,  of  of the school board and, and administration and perhaps even reach out to staff because, to at least start the ball rolling. But in essence, this plan is going to be about engagement  and engagement involving the community, the school district. There is engagement already. Now, I want to be able to  provide parents the opportunity to learn more about what we are doing to us, to learn from them, what they are experiencing,  and to it really just to be more connected with the with the variety of issues  that we are dealing with, with racism and again, racism. Looking at the footnote, it's not just about  a child of color or not of color. It's really about diversity. And I think it's important to for us to have conversations about bullying and have conversations  about how we treat each other.  And that would occur,  at different levels. It's really positive that, you know, the lead policy is a place for Claremont to step up and to talk about what isn't pleasant, but what is being very proactive.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Claremont has a big star over itself, over itself because of this, this led screening policy. And I think that Claremont deserves to be proud of how it has responded

[R9354-384] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: have all done continue to do in our schools around behavior, around morality, around kindness, around goodness and giving back. Community service bullies are eliminated or tamed when students are given positive reinforcement, when they're given something good and something engaging, that's where bullies disappear.
TEXT> They disappear in that environment, not by people holding signs and not by people demonstrating. And my fear tomorrow is that this will somehow rip the scab off a wound that is starting to heal. And I want to share something with you. I had a conversation before last Tuesday with a student who was involved in in an issue, and as I was talking to her in my office about her behavior, about her participation, which was in a bystander versus in a step in and help mode, what she said shocked me. And she said, you know, Mrs. Berry, you're not from around here.  But I'm a real Claremont, and we're from the gutter, and we don't deserve any better. That's a 16 year old kid. And that's how she defines herself in our school. That broke my heart. No, that's what we have to fix. We have to have a way to make that young lady and the other kids who really define themselves in that way, change their view of themselves. And that's through kindness. That's through building them up and making them feel special.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And like, like Justin said, there is nobody, no faculty member, no student in this building that's any better than anybody else. But we have a lot of kids who

[R9354-390] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (self-identified; A | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Okay.
TEXT> From a student perspective, so you completely honest. This is the first time I've ever heard of anyone protesting or holding up signs or doing whatever outside of the school tomorrow afternoon.  But when I walk out of those doors at 206 or to whatever time it is,  I feel like, okay, like, got my day accomplished. Did what I had to do,  you know, made myself proud, did what I have to do, go home and do my homework. You know, like, positive. Like I try to keep myself positive in that, like. And then if I walk out those doors  from a place that I've grown to call home for the past four years and a place that I feel genuinely like, comfortable and safe in and safe to be myself, because I've, you know, grown there,  to walk out of those doors and see adults that, like I said, I may not know, adults that may not know me, adults that may not know my peers. It's scary. And it's also frustrating because no one has come and talk to us. Nobody has sat down with us kids  or faculty,  and actually expressed how we feel, and we haven't been able to share how we feel about the situation because we all know what happened because of social media and the news and magazines and etc. but, no one's actually from the community came and talked to us.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: We haven't had an assembly. We haven't been able to have anything like that because it hasn't been brought to our attention until things like now and tomorrow. I'm genuinely,

[R9354-399] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: handle students who are dealing with anything throughout the school day. And they do. And our students have they have an open door policy and our students have an open pass policy to go see a crisis counselor with with any concerns at any time.
TEXT> I think the time will come in the very near future for us. There's going to be a flex enrichment opportunity. The two teachers have taken on to have conversations with students about race and diversity. Those students who choose to go and have that conversation during flex time  with a with a curriculum and and guided questions and topics to  to border the conversation. But,  the time has not quite been right for us to speak about that incident, and I didn't think it was right yet for us to be bringing up something that was still such a public thing and such, such an unending thing.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: For us. It's been like one after another, like the incident on the 28th and then the fifth, and then, then we had the two days of where we got

[R9354-404] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-10-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: They were here.
TEXT> They were here, and they left. Right. So I again, I'm not I don't know enough about the plan tomorrow. I just know enough that I wanted to publicly state that sometimes when you do something from a good place and you're doing something that you think is right, you may not be thinking about it from the shoes  of the individuals you're trying to help, namely the students.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: My concern is, is that we always have to have people do presentations of something they want to do with or for around the children of our community regarding this.

[R9354-440] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I think we should invite them. Let's be positive about it. Let's invite. Them to bring their project.
TEXT> All of this is happening and people from outside of our area, outside of our schools, are being allowed to come in and take over their identity because people inside of our community are helping them feed the pot for ego arrogance, pick a reason business. They're using that as look at we did this, but I didn't really do this. I get to walk away as the bomb goes off. We have to stop allowing them to form. I don't care what they have to say. If they're not willing to talk to us and talk to the very kids that they supposedly care about, they don't deserve to. I don't deserve to hear what they don't want to hear. What they have to say.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Is we need.

[R9354-479] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Just lose the names next time.
TEXT> I felt just important in light of what been going on. And some of the tenure of the community to to just revisit these policies and, and the process of doing that. I've identified some policies that  needed to be updated. And so those are also included in this packet. But,  the key to me right now is that there was clarity as to what the expectations are for adults, as well as for students, for our community through our school board policies in regard to behavior and conduct. And it doesn't mean I'm not indicting anyone for behavior in conduct. I'm saying let's revisit what our documents say about behavior and conduct. And that was the spirit behind this.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So what have we got?

[R9354-486] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Safety procedures, safety committee. Yeah, it's.
TEXT> Claremont School Board policies involving behavior and conduct. And there are, as you can see, 16 policies involving behavioral conduct. And I've identified some that need to be updated. Student conduct is eight years old. Bullying and cyber bullying is eight years old, as is hazing, public conduct and school properties 11 years old. And there's been new RSA that need to be blended into those. So  in the process of going through all of these policies, we can update some of them. But I also, as I said before,  wanted to just revisit all the policies that exist today. I mean, safe schools, for example, the policy is very clear about the importance of supervision,  and working with some of the administration that some of our set in one particular school. In fact, that's that's a particular goal that we're going to be working on. So these are the type of things that are benefit when we revisit  a policy that have been in place, but sometimes don't get our attention. So I wanted to use this as an opportunity to  clarify, as they say in my memo to you, expectations for both students and adults, behavior and conduct.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'm going to sound so dumb right now, but what does? I love? The highlighting because it brings my eyes right to what they need to go to. Fantastic. Remind

[R9354-508] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: It's revisit.
TEXT> Well and look, even if even if a policy doesn't change at all, at least it's been looked at and updated and acknowledged that it's either working and should continue as is. Okay. We've got a couple of action items.  Second reads for school board policies. We do a wellness policy and administrating administering medication to students to second read.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Policies are before you for a second read dealing with changes in the federal law, as well as if you remember adding the part dealing with insulin. For the administration

[R9354-509] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: it's been looked at and updated and acknowledged that it's either working and should continue as is. Okay. We've got a couple of action items. Second reads for school board policies. We do a wellness policy and administrating administering medication to students to second read.
TEXT> Policies are before you for a second read dealing with changes in the federal law, as well as if you remember adding the part dealing with insulin. For the administration of medication to students because that was not a part of the policy. And we do have some students  who require that. And so we wanted to be able to add that to the policy because the policy was silent on that. That's why these are two before you for a second read.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Are there on a second read or a third?

[R9354-513] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: These are seconds.
TEXT> Wellness medication to students.
NEXT> Unidentified: On third and final three year motion.

[R9357-31] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Moving on. The next item is let Screening and Prevention update.
TEXT> Good evening. I would like to start off by,  it a good visual to talk about the city council and the school board working together and what I'm going to be talking very briefly about an update regarding the lead screening policy that occurred that the result of the city side and the school side. Valley Regional Hospital,  the state of New Hampshire  working as partners. And this started over a year ago,  and it developed into a lead screening policy with the entire intent is to inform our community, our parents, and then to support children and families  who have a  LED number, if you will, in their blood, meaning they've been exposed. But. This lead screening policy was approved this past April. It clearly has an impact  on the community it has. What's also very important to note is that this policy has been received very well.  We've received when this was approved  in late April, in the spring, we received phone calls from local pediatricians and primary care physicians, even from Vermont, wanting more information about this.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And other school districts, in fact, have asked for this policy because it's intended to assist families. It's intended to provide information for the wellness of their children and for

[R9357-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: school board is going to revisit and perhaps consider an opt out phrase. But the lead policy has been very successful, has been greatly received by by the community. What's interesting, though, this year we have implemented a new food service company, the Abbey Group.
TEXT> Approximately 90% of our former food service employees are working with us still, which is great. But what's interesting to note is that research has shown that diet does help reduce the effects of lead poisoning. And what's interesting, if you look at the center for Disease Control and Prevention, eating right helps fight lead poisoning. And these are some of the plant based nutrients that can combat lead poisoning. Now, I'm not saying it's going to minimize it totally, but it does help. As far as the diet is concerned. It does help a child  who may be exposed to lead pointing to help to mitigate that. Iron, calcium, and vitamin C are just some examples. The reason I'm putting this up is that because with a new food service program, we have a greater variety of different types of food, and in particular, fresh fruit, fresh vegetables in a in a salad bar that all students have access to. And by the way, a limitless access to. So what I'd like to do is just quickly show you that there was a daily breakfast  options. And as you can see, every every morning, every student has the option of acquiring a breakfast. And you can see the variety  that of that is being offered. And during the course of lunch, you can see there are a variety of different choices.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But in every case there's the vegetable bar, vegetable soup, there's fresh, nutritious, dark green food, foods that students have access to. And so this type of nutrition on a

[R9357-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And as you can see, every every morning, every student has the option of acquiring a breakfast. And you can see the variety that of that is being offered. And during the course of lunch, you can see there are a variety of different choices.
TEXT> But in every case there's the vegetable bar, vegetable soup, there's fresh, nutritious, dark green  food, foods that  students have access to. And so this type of  nutrition  on a on a regular basis, we hope will will provide students with added opportunities to acquire that type of diet that will help those  who are dealing with the challenges of the poisoning. Whoops. So,  very, very pleased with  our food service program and very pleased with the outcome of the first year  of the lead screening policy. And as I said before, of all the parents and residents who send children, the younger children, we've only had one concern and that was respected. And it will be reviewed  and  other districts are following our suit. But again, this goes back to the benefits of the city working with the  the leaders in the community Valley Regional Hospital, other municipal leaders and the school district. What can happen when you partner and work as a team?
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I know councilor shared with us recently, that he you had lunch with the kids and elementary school.

[R9357-42] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> And if you just let me know or Corey. No. And we'd be glad to join you for lunch. We have a lot to be proud of, and it's always great to see the variety of foods and the students enjoying it, as well as the staff, by the way, as well.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: There's a lot of parents and kids that are expressing how wonderful it is and excited again, some loves it. It's amazing.

[R9357-43] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - speaks of shaking a graduat | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: or Corey. No. And we'd be glad to join you for lunch. We have a lot to be proud of, and it's always great to see the variety of foods and the students enjoying it, as well as the staff, by the way, as well.
TEXT> There's a lot  of parents and kids that are expressing how wonderful it is and excited again, some loves it.  It's amazing.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Wonderful food is important. The right kind of food is important for so many things. So I'd like to thank the school district for the invitation to participate in Back

[R9357-48] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: And one other thing, we recently, had some repair, renovate and paint program sessions where you can be certified to deal with lead based paint. And I believe there was also another another session that had to do with, Mr. Schneid. Correct. Where they're bringing.
TEXT> Yes, yes, there is going to be training where they can be the, the students and the staff can become more and certified in the lead abatement.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So that's going to be part of their curriculum for the students and the tech center. Correct?

[R9357-52] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: That's the goal.
TEXT> Yeah. So if if you're not aware of it happening and I'm sorry no jump in the tech center. You're you're educating students to go out into the trades. And and what an opportunity to educate them while they're in their high school career learning these trades to work around lead based paint in a way that's healthy. So they will come out of their programs not only knowledgeable on the trade itself, but how to  work with a potentially hazardous material. So that's good. So I complement the the school district for that. All right. So any questions about what's going on. Either with the school district or the city and lead screening and prevention.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just just some perspective because I think, it sounds like we have several kids a month testing high in lead, several. What would be the percentage of that of kids

[R9357-53] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the presiding voice at the opening, a mem | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: trade itself, but how to work with a potentially hazardous material. So that's good. So I complement the the school district for that. All right. So any questions about what's going on. Either with the school district or the city and lead screening and prevention.
TEXT> Just just some perspective because I think,  it sounds like we have several kids a month testing high in lead, several. What would be the percentage of  that of kids being tested that are testing high? Do we know that.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: That I don't.

[R9357-57] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the presiding voice at the opening, a mem | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I do not.
TEXT> It would be, I think, kind of compelling because I think some people would be saying, why is Clermont doing that? But three sounds like a or four sounds like a lot of kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Talking about 36 kids a year in a student body of 1800, roughly. That's what percentage, I don't know, but I.

[R9357-65] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Ben', 'Jason Bender'; later a sch | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: I was. Going to make a statement. Just talking about. Hello, Jason.
TEXT> Ben Ward one. On the testing, basically, you've been actively testing since the April 18th. Roughly. Is that when when the lead testing is started where you're getting so many kids per month, would you say it was a.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: No, that that average is based on the surveillance reports that have been, published by the state and that is going off figures of I think the latest one is

[R9357-78] John Cottier | State Representative and Ward 1 resident (self-identified; spelling pe | 2017-09-28
PREV> John Cottier: rental property. They're thinking of a provision in the bill no later than July 1st of 2020. The residence, owners of all residential rental property constructed before 1978, shall determine, through a qualified lead inspector risk accessor whether the property contains lead based substance absence.
TEXT> Such a determination, the presence of lead based substances shall be zoomed. And then they are also going to thinking of a provision that after January 1st, 2023, no owner of residential rental property determined or presumed to contain lead based substances shall rent such property in less. It is certified to be lead safe, meaning that the lead based substance abatement or interim controls have been implemented and no LED exposure exists. And there's, you know, so they are working on some interesting ideas. I cannot guarantee they will be in the final bit. But this is what Representative Byron is proposing as an amendment. So it's possible in theory we could be have lead base free rental housing at least by, as I read this January 1st, 2023.  They're also working on child care facilities, I believe. Child care facilities.  After it would be January 1st, 2023. Again, no more  all child care facilities constructed on property  as 19 before 1978 would have to be certified to be led safe as well. So I'm just giving you some of the highlights. A lot of the bill, the micron, the measurement of  and I think you mentioned it, Madam Mayor.
NEXT> John Cottier: Three. It's still in the bill. They want three might micrograms per deciliter or high higher. So in other words under the bill the department I'm talking about, health and

[R9357-79] John Cottier | State Representative and Ward 1 resident (self-identified; spelling pe | 2017-09-28
PREV> John Cottier: constructed on property as 19 before 1978 would have to be certified to be led safe as well. So I'm just giving you some of the highlights. A lot of the bill, the micron, the measurement of and I think you mentioned it, Madam Mayor.
TEXT> Three. It's still in the bill. They want three might micrograms per deciliter or high  higher. So in other words under the bill the department I'm talking about, health and human services shall send materials to the parents of any child where a blood level, blood lead level  of three micrograms per deciliter or higher is present through the testing. And there's also a proposal to do the testing at least three times once at one year of age, two years of age and four years. Although I think that's right now, I remember the four years was taken out, which is a bit controversial among some of the co-sponsors. So that could be put back in.  So I'm just giving you some of the highlights. It's a very complicated. But the committee is meeting next week and I, the chairman, thought they're going to have to have several meetings, the subcommittee before they even bring it to the full finance committee sometime in November.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Representative, first of all, thank you for being there. You're welcome. Very. Are you able to say anything or is this just a work session among the committee today?

[R9357-89] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Mr.. Adrian.
TEXT> Thank you very much. John, I wanted to know when would. Child care facilities would that also include schools?
NEXT> John Cottier: It the bill itself just mentions child care. It doesn't mention anything about specifically the bill's language about schools.

[R9357-90] John Cottier | State Representative and Ward 1 resident (self-identified; spelling pe | 2017-09-28
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Thank you very much. John, I wanted to know when would. Child care facilities would that also include schools?
TEXT> It the bill itself just mentions  child care. It doesn't mention anything about specifically the bill's language about schools.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: That'd be something. I know that that's amendment that's going to be a long process. And might not even get into the bill, but I'd be curious to know to

[R9357-96] John Cottier | State Representative and Ward 1 resident (self-identified; spelling pe | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Okay.
TEXT> Thank you. So  I just to give you an update. The only other thing is that whether whether residential houses single or will be included. That will be another debate to it. This may just be aimed at at  rental units and mainly also child care facilities. And also, you know, lead pipes. This is what the bill. But I don't know whether they're going to do much with single family units at the present time.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you for that.

[R9357-100] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Okay. So now we're on to, city and school initiatives with the community impact.
TEXT> I would like to continue and to share some of the Claremont School District impacts. And also, I know they're we're going to have a discussion regarding City of Claremont and the impacts as well. But I would like to before we begin on November 1st, 2017, there's going to be a New England led conference  in Nashua. And I'm very pleased to tell you that there's an opening session. Get the let out Claremont New Hampshire's citywide initiative, and it talks about there'll be a hour long session. Charlene Leavitt, myself, Brian Rapp, Ryan McNutt, Sean Glasscock, a building inspector. Steven Coombs, chief building and code enforcement Peter Wright Valley Regional Hospital will be panelists on this, on this panel. And it talks about Claremont. But it said recognizing the negative health impact of Claremont children and the long term economic impact to the community from childhood lead poisoning, it has what has motivated us, as well as with the fact that we are the first school district in the state that had a lead screening policy. So very pleased to be a part of this. And it talks about Claremont and it talks about where the city of Claremont is headed. So I just like to share that, aside from lead screening, I'd like to talk about gear up, New Hampshire, gear up, New Hampshire.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Gear up is a is a federal grant. It's been around for quite a few years. And this year past year, New Hampshire was a recipient, but only certain communities

[R9357-104] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: don't have to be very wealthy in order to go to college or to go into training beyond that? And so it's it's it's providing students with exposures to different opportunities, visiting the colleges, having college fairs, and following these students as they proceed through.
TEXT> So we're not talking about talking to students when they're juniors in high school, but now starting to talk with them when they're in the seventh grade. And we're very, very excited about the potential of of this, especially the way we see students responding. Students are excited  about their future and especially when they are informed. I'm going to ask Cory LeClaire to join me and to talk about another initiative, unless there are any questions. One for all space. So I'm sorry.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: My notes here.

[R9357-110] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Percentage up there. Hopeful percentage of 93% for attendance attending school. My question is, what is the percentage of attendance now? Where are we going? Where have we been.
TEXT> And we have been in the 80% tile 80s high 80s this year 91%. What's interesting is that if you look at, you'll have some days where you'll have attendance in the 97, 98 percentile. You'll have other days, such as right before April vacation or before Thanksgiving. It's like 75%, but over the course of the year.  We're we this past year has been 91%, which is an increase from prior years. And so what we're trying to do is support students and support families, and to emphasize the importance of being in school and being in the classroom every day.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Even at 91%. That's excellent. I mean, so I can see how it would be a little bit seasonality and up and down, but the average, that's excellent.

[R9357-112] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Even at 91%. That's excellent. I mean, so I can see how it would be a little bit seasonality and up and down, but the average, that's excellent.
TEXT> It's about setting goals and it's about reporting on those goals. If you don't have a goal, if you don't have a target, then what are you working toward. And that's that's the spirit. And the great news is that the students are responding. Cory LeClaire is going to talk about one for all space.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So how many of you have actually been stolen for all of these? Four. That's good for the an audience member. That means that there's many of you who I

[R9357-113] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: goals. If you don't have a goal, if you don't have a target, then what are you working toward. And that's that's the spirit. And the great news is that the students are responding. Cory LeClaire is going to talk about one for all space.
TEXT> So how many of you have actually been stolen for all of these? Four. That's good for the an audience member. That means that there's many of you who  I would be happy to take on a visit still. So one for all spaces at 169 Main Street,  commonly referred to as the Old Diana Love Building, big white building  next to the bridge. And we  have a location in the basement of first floor of that building where we service, families of all kinds. So every weekday from nine we have drop in families that come.  Since we've been open in November of 2015, we've had over 1000 visits. And November of 2015. So we've been open almost two years and we've had over 1000 visits.  We service a  average ten families a day. We've, supported over 250 different families. So of those thousand, that represents over 250 different families and approximately 400 different children. So the drop in space is designed for families with children 0 to 5. It was originally intended to service our homeless community that have children in the ages  to five, because of its proximity to our homeless shelters, but since its inception, it's been a place for all together, regardless of your level of income. And  we've we've had some families made some really great partnerships, whether they're homeless or not.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They come together and work together and support each other, which is which is what we had hoped for. So that was nice. That space is also now licensed as

[R9357-114] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: the ages to five, because of its proximity to our homeless shelters, but since its inception, it's been a place for all together, regardless of your level of income. And we've we've had some families made some really great partnerships, whether they're homeless or not.
TEXT> They come together and work together and support each other, which is which is what we had hoped for. So that was nice.  That space is also now licensed as a child care facility. So we do here in our community, have a number of students who become pregnant during high school. And, that child care facility is designed to be in service of our high school students who have children. Our sixth child started yesterday. That's so that's six babies. They're all  pretty much 0 to 15 months maybe,  if not younger. And we have three additional students that will be bringing their babies as soon as they're born, and October and November. So,  every child, with the exception of one receiving child care through our program, was born to very young parents or  parents who were drug involved. So they were born addicted. Two of the parents are last year's graduates. The beauty of that program, because everybody can look at the the negatives of having teen pregnancy rates and all of those things. However, the beauty of that program is that it's an opportunity for us, our staff, to work with those parents to help them become educated on how to parent.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We have the high school students in our care, and we have that baby in our care, and that allows us to coordinate our efforts and and meet the needs

[R9357-117] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: provide things of that nature for the children, particularly when they are in our care. And this is just one more step in that to ensure that, you know, we don't rely only on donations, but then also have the opportunity to have reimbursable meals.
TEXT> We partner with lots of different agencies. We partner partner with Jags. So if there are students with  childcare needs who are working and engage with the JAG program, they need occasional care. They can partner with us and we support them. If they have a meeting with their JAG counselor, they can have their children with us.  And same thing with Hope for recovery. We  are doing parenting classes with the New Hampshire Cooperative Extension. The one that we have coming up soon will focus on our young parents and how to,  teaching them how to make easy meals on a budget. We also partner with organizations like TLC, West Central, Sullivan County House of corrections to provide a safe place for group meetings,  supervised visitation between children and parents, incarcerated parents, and and a safe setting for all of those things to happen. Our space is highly utilized. Nine to noon. It sort of calms down for nap time for the little ones  afternoon  until about three, when the middle school and high school students can come over for tutoring.  And so we, we coordinate as much as we can around our day and, and pretty much use that facility from dawn to dusk, helping families in our community.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We get food with from willing hands regularly. We, do all sorts of programs in the summer for children and, partner with area businesses. Walmart just gave us a huge

[R9357-118] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: until about three, when the middle school and high school students can come over for tutoring. And so we, we coordinate as much as we can around our day and, and pretty much use that facility from dawn to dusk, helping families in our community.
TEXT> We get food with from willing hands regularly. We,  do  all sorts of programs in the summer for children and,  partner with area businesses. Walmart just gave us a huge donation of plants and seedling seeds, seed packets, and planting and potting material. So some of that will be able to be used at that space. Some of that will be able to be used at our schools, area, preschools, things of that nature. Walmart gives us a ton of stuff. We've worked with lots of others  you can see up on the screen now, the bags on the left side,  we, we do those bags, which are the kindergarten screening bags.  Every kindergartner who comes gets a bag full of goodies at their screening. It includes all sorts of things that the child can do with their family to increase their skills at home. We also had bags at the back to school festival backpacks and other,  trees that we gave out. We do the little Free Libraries around town. There are currently, I think, four of them operational. I think one of them is in need of some repairs. Some of them are more highly used than others. I know the one near. I think it's Central Street. It's almost impossible to keep it full. There's a high demand for,  children's books and young adult literature in that particular,  little free Library. That one tends to be a borrow,  library instead of a.
NEXT> Unidentified: Put in.

[R9357-120] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: Put in.
TEXT> Put intake library. But you know what? I'm not going to argue with anybody over taking books to read.  I know my children frequent the one in Moody Park and come home with all sorts of random, interesting books at times, and it's a great avenue for us to send some of our books that are loved and no longer read as much to,
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I saw just last week a mother with two young children sitting at Moody Park reading a book from the little library. I thought it was the oddest initiative because

[R9357-121] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: I know my children frequent the one in Moody Park and come home with all sorts of random, interesting books at times, and it's a great avenue for us to send some of our books that are loved and no longer read as much to,
TEXT> I saw just last week a mother with two young children sitting at Moody Park reading a book from the little library. I thought it was the oddest initiative because I never, I mean, and now I can't believe how well they're used. And then I'm thinking about their communities.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So it's they are, we just transitioned our AmeriCorps Vistas. We had Lauren Simpson, who was our AmeriCorps Vista, and finish up her a year of service. And, Leighton Keith

[R9357-122] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: a mother with two young children sitting at Moody Park reading a book from the little library. I thought it was the oddest initiative because I never, I mean, and now I can't believe how well they're used. And then I'm thinking about their communities.
TEXT> So it's  they are,  we just  transitioned our AmeriCorps Vistas. We had Lauren Simpson, who was our AmeriCorps Vista,  and finish up her a year of service. And,  Leighton Keith is our new Vista who just started his year of service. And they are the ones responsible for stocking the libraries.  But not to speak on their behalf. But I know if others in the community want to sponsor a little free library, we would certainly work with you to get one built and set up out there, because I think there's a need for them across our community.  And also if you have donations of particularly children's good,  decent quality children's books, not things that are half the pages are ripped out of. So you can't read the story, but as long as they're intact stories,  young adult literature and then current magazines, maybe you get a magazine subscription. You've already read it for the month. You no longer want it.  You can drop those off at my office at the at the office, and we'll get them into the libraries as needed. They are checked and stock is added,  at a minimum a weekly basis, if not more frequently through the week. So there are lots of things I can talk about in terms of what we are doing as a school district to support our community, some other things listed up on this particular page, or the Back to School festival.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We did change location this year. We had an issue with parking, which was the concern on the front side. And yes, it was still a concern on that day.

[R9357-127] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: whether they attend, the public schools or not, if they're not yet age appropriate, if they're homeschooled, if they attend one of the other two schools in town, this is a way for us to to work with all of our children across our community.
TEXT> There's been a great deal of work. And thank you, Corey.  There's been a great deal of work and commitment to  investing into early childhood education,  of investing in children before they enter kindergarten. And  we we'd like to talk about our preschool program  with the new director.  We went through a transition of a few years ago  of ending how we did business restructuring. And now with the new director and some exciting changes, Corey is has agreed to talk a bit about  the Claremont Early Childhood program that's in place.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Sure. Our new director is Diana doctor Diane Edwards, who comes with a wealth of experience in early childhood education. So at the moment we are serving 52 children, ages

[R9357-128] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: director. We went through a transition of a few years ago of ending how we did business restructuring. And now with the new director and some exciting changes, Corey is has agreed to talk a bit about the Claremont Early Childhood program that's in place.
TEXT> Sure.  Our new director is Diana doctor Diane Edwards, who comes with a wealth of experience in early childhood education.  So at the moment we are serving 52 children, ages three and four.  Three year olds attend three days a week Tuesday, Wednesday, 30 Thursday.  And I think the hours are posted up there on the screen.  And four year olds attend four days a week. We project to have 77 preschool children by the end of the school year. So we're in the process of we currently have three classrooms. We're in the process of adding a fourth classroom based on need  and project that we will have 77 by the end of the school year. Right now.  Well, I should say historically, our preschool program run by the school district was really for our special education children. There's a  federal law that requires us to provide services for children who qualify starting age three. And so historically, we, like many districts, had a preschool program that was predominantly  for our identified population. And this year we really made the effort to switch it to being a an early childhood program. So the the breakdown of  students with disabilities compared to students who do not yet have disabilities,  it is typically 34  students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Right now we have 34 students who do not have disabilities and 18 students with disabilities. And that's that's the ratio we're, we're currently working on. We know that, we

[R9357-131] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: Outreach, will take place at Fisk Free Library. They actively support 1000 books before kindergarten by keeping track of the number of books they read to children each day. Host a weekly read aloud and related activities to at the library will start in October.
TEXT> So  our program is collaborating with the library and really pushing,  the early literacy and early numeracy, kindergarten readiness and things of that nature. I almost brought for you this evening. My my son started kindergarten this year, and the other day he brought home a very cute booklet, and it was one of his first writing activities. And in the booklet, all of his classmates had drawn a picture of my son. And so if you think about five year olds, I had 13, five year old drawings  of my son. And the reason I wanted to show it to you was because there is a  enormous discrepancy in ability.  And these are their children that we're getting today. That's what they come to the public school district with.  I will be sharing this with the school board on Wednesday. So you'll you'll be able to see it at that point. But some of the pictures were not recognizable as a human figure in any way. And other pictures were very detailed human drawings with fingers, with hair, with ears and all of the different body parts.  And all of those little children are in the same classroom together,  starting at very different places with, with different abilities.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yet we expect them all to arrive at the same end result. And that's one of the things we've talked a lot about at the school board level. In in

[R9357-132] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: in any way. And other pictures were very detailed human drawings with fingers, with hair, with ears and all of the different body parts. And all of those little children are in the same classroom together, starting at very different places with, with different abilities.
TEXT> Yet we expect them all to arrive at the same end result. And that's one of the things we've talked a lot about at the school board level.  In in some of our schools, our kindergarten numbers in classrooms this year are as high as 23. And so when you have 23 little children with that range of ability, that certainly poses a challenge. So I know I think we're talking about poverty soon. This is all part of that conversation. But having an early childhood program certainly is a start.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's, I.

[R9357-134] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: It's, I.
TEXT> Can't tell you how excited I am.  I believe the number of children in our program now has quite from where we were a few years ago. And the transportation and the nourishment, by the way, that was not the norm either. So,  it's just it's very exciting, to be able to meet the needs of such a large number of children. In the perfect world, we would have universal preschool ages three, four, and five with transportation if money wasn't an object. But seeing the money seems to be an object periodically. We can't do that, but we at least are a lot farther ahead than we were a few years ago. And just. And when the first grade teachers. After our first year of full day kindergarten approached me and say, you can't believe the difference when a child is in kindergarten all day versus half a day.  You can't believe that how far ahead they are in comparison to prior years when it was half day. So just imagine the advantage of having  an early childhood program for some wonderful children. And the advantage they are the leg up they are going to, they are going to have if money wasn't an object. In fact, the federal government really if it's invested in in the future, they should have universal investment in early childhood education. It's not a nice thing. It's an essential opportunity for children.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Well, you are very involved in the committee community. I'm sorry. And so much of that I wasn't even aware of. So thank you for sharing that. Is there is

[R9357-135] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: going to, they are going to have if money wasn't an object. In fact, the federal government really if it's invested in in the future, they should have universal investment in early childhood education. It's not a nice thing. It's an essential opportunity for children.
TEXT> Well, you are very involved in the committee community. I'm sorry. And so much of that I wasn't even aware of. So thank you for sharing that. Is there is there a possibility that there are next meeting which is quarterly? We have an update on the progress that's being made. I know there was a point when you switch from half a day to full day kindergarten, you were measuring the progress and then progress. Yeah. And then, if the one for all space has been in, in existence for two years, is there something that you can track that shows, you know,  an outcome that is measurable? Because I know it's the right thing to do, but I'm it's good to be able to have something concrete to say. Look, what? Because I think  one of the objectives in that is to make sure that kids, when they do come into the school system, if they're young, they're ready.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think another thing to note about the one for all space, it's all grant funded. The entire thing is grant funded. So it's not in the local school budget.

[R9357-137] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Cory LeClair: I think another thing to note about the one for all space, it's all grant funded. The entire thing is grant funded. So it's not in the local school budget. But yes, we can definitely get some information.
TEXT> And it would be nice. You know, I don't want to invade their privacy, but if you ever had a student who was, you know, comfortable with it. It might be. And they wanted to share their story. It might be nice to hear from them how these type of resources have helped them move, move beyond high school and then get a job and and make their way and, and take care of a child all at the same time.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Charlie. We we have those stories. It is their private, their personal. But there is a we are not only providing a around that opportunity for a little child, but

[R9357-138] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: their story. It might be nice to hear from them how these type of resources have helped them move, move beyond high school and then get a job and and make their way and, and take care of a child all at the same time.
TEXT> Charlie. We we have those stories.  It is their private, their personal. But there is a we are not only providing a around that opportunity for a little child, but we're also allowing their mother or father to complete high school and then go on. It's critical. It's critical. So I look forward to that discussion.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: That'd be great.

[R9357-142] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Carolyn Towle: So it's important to hear that because.
TEXT> This is right. We can look at pregnancy just, you know. Pregnancy statistics and it's all very negative. And but it happens. And, you know, the the story should be. Well, if it does happen. How have we taken a difficult situation and made it doable. Because it's difficult to have a child young.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Difficult to have a child, period.

[R9357-143] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: you know. Pregnancy statistics and it's all very negative. And but it happens. And, you know, the the story should be. Well, if it does happen. How have we taken a difficult situation and made it doable. Because it's difficult to have a child young.
TEXT> Difficult to have a child, period.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: That's right.

[R9357-156] Scott Pope | City Councilor; tech center instructor (addressed as 'Councilor Pope'  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Scott Pope: anybody, though. They've got to have the people with some basic skills, even if they are just the interpersonal skills. The we'll just put it right out out there, the ability to be trained and to play well with others and work well with others.
TEXT> And so that was a lot of it. So that's been a lot of where the workforce development is starting to go right now on my end is the train aspects. I work with several different companies. Everybody knows I work with Wieland and the Wieland program we have.  I will soon be doing a inventory of students who've gone out of that program and either gone to Wieland or other programs, and the tech center here does keep an inventory of whether students are going to the best of our ability, but it is going to be a increasing need in our community in order to keep our economy going. And I know some people say, well, some of these jobs start off at low pay. Well, they're starting about 12 to $15 an hour. And these people are renting apartments. They're paying money into the economy, buying gas, foods, such supporting our businesses. And eventually, if they like it here, buying houses. So the workforce development isn't just to develop our community, but our employers and our business and our industry. It also develops our community. If you think about it that way, getting people as contributing members of society. So that's what I can really say about this at this point. So there's anything else you want to know?
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Did you want to speak at all about Congresswoman Custer's initiative?

[R9357-171] Scott Pope | City Councilor; tech center instructor (addressed as 'Councilor Pope'  | 2017-09-28
PREV> Jason Benware: to come into the town. So I think if if we could do one thing different in this town, we might be able to find a way to provide some better housing for people. And you'd see some of those jobs start getting filled quicker.
TEXT> And you're absolutely right. I hear that from my students as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9357-205] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-09-28
PREV> Unidentified: Can I say sorry? Because I.
TEXT> Rebecca, like, hit the point. That was exactly, I think, on my mind as well. I was going to ask the question to to you, and I guess maybe this should be a, a broader discussion, become like a broader discussion. That would be both with the, Amy Hood, but also the school district, but also the community because,  I've been following this, this the, the national economic discussions and then tied with education for a while. We were talking about skills and we talk about math and science, you know, some extent writing, reading. But it was math and science and we were talking about academic skills. And then more recently, it started becoming about those soft skills. And I saw most recently and this was a in a, an NPR piece is a lot of the the economic advisors. They  are confident that if we focus on teaching the academic skills that they can teach these soft skills, in the end, they can teach those in programs. And I you know, I would be interested to know from Scott how you know how true that is. But I do express some of those concerns that, you know, Rebecca Zullo is talking about, because we have half of I think, half of America's students talk about they say that they feel they are addicted to their smartphones, that word addicted.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: We have to sell the solution to my my, I'm sorry, my mouth is not working today. My salutatorian that's going to get had an excellent, speech at graduation. And

[R9357-206] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-09-28
PREV> Patrick Adrian: that is. But I do express some of those concerns that, you know, Rebecca Zullo is talking about, because we have half of I think, half of America's students talk about they say that they feel they are addicted to their smartphones, that word addicted.
TEXT> We have to sell the solution to my my, I'm sorry, my mouth is not working today. My salutatorian that's going to get had an excellent, speech at graduation. And it was all focused about that, putting down the technology, putting down the cell phones and the digital social media and getting back to interaction. And so on one hand, I mean, we have to look at how much are we focusing on teaching 21st century skills. But at the same time, you know, how much time are we spending with students? Every the students are spending on computers all day. When we're taught that they should be only be on screens a certain amount during the day.  I guess I'm just wondering, you know, how much some of these skills that we can teach in, say, a tech program or  so?
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: May I interrupt you? Because I think we're getting.

[R9357-217] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And if we're honest and we don't, I'm not pointing fingers. I'm not this group or that group. My pointing at parent. I'm not putting it. Teachers. I'm not putting in a superintendent. I'm not going to look for a victim or someone to blame.
TEXT> But I think we need to take a step back and make a commitment to engage. I think this eventually is going to lead into some major curriculum change, some curriculum adjustments or changes. I think eventually there may be some presentations, there might be assemblies, but I don't believe the answer is to have a guest speaker come in, make a big presentation, or to have some films that we've done our job. I think we have to take some time to do this, but but there are some key people who need to be at the table when we talk about bullying, for example. I mean, just one piece of this. I'm very interested in listening to students about what their experiences are. And again, I'm not saying this, that I feel we that we are we are dropping the ball with one area or the other area. But this is an opportunity to sort of take a step back and to recalibrate. I believe that if we look at this as an opportunity for meaningful change over time, we can make make improvements.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I think the community is ready for this based on what I experienced, but but I'm just talking about myself. I'm just talking about what I think. I think it's

[R9357-218] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-09-28
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the ball with one area or the other area. But this is an opportunity to sort of take a step back and to recalibrate. I believe that if we look at this as an opportunity for meaningful change over time, we can make make improvements.
TEXT> I think the community is ready for this based on what I experienced, but but I'm just talking about myself. I'm just talking about what I think. I think it's going to be critical, though, to have engagement and to and to build momentum with this and then to go forward. The schools have a critical, critical piece with this. And when I say schools, I'm talking all the players here, including the residents, including the the residents who may not have children here because,  as was said last week when I heard this last week, I haven't forgotten it along. I don't think I'll ever forget it. One man said to me, you know, when that child was hurt, everyone got hurt and we can turn her back on it and say it doesn't happen very much, or we can say  no, maybe this is the tip of the iceberg and let's do this together. So do I have a plan? My plan is going to be evolving by including others and by setting some direction. And it will become more concrete over time. And I'm very interested in the school board's reaction to this, because the school board, the elected leaders and the city council, the elected leaders, we have to be a part of this. So that's,  this is a plan that's starting to take shape.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It's got it becoming more formed than it was on September 11th, when I made that phone message, when I made that phone call to the community, to the faculty.

[R9357-229] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (presiding at the joint meeting) | 2017-09-28
PREV> Charlene Lovett: a continuation of those gatherings where we really, in a organized way, take the opportunity to hear from different people, learn from their experiences, and then after all of that information is collected, then really this is the breadth and the depth of the issue.
TEXT> What are we going to do to help move the the community forward?  And I think there's precedent set here in this community, and it's one of the one of the many reasons why I'm so proud of it is because no matter what community you live in,  no matter how many resources you may have or may not have, you can't control the actions of every person in the in the community in which you reside or in which you are part of its government. But when things happen that are very unfortunate, we have this community has taken the lead in the state for changing the laws  that allowed something negative to happen, that allowed harm to come to a child. We have done that. We have changed state law. It's being looked at at the national level. So. We have the ability to do it. It's going to take a long time. You know, we should be asking ourselves why do we allow certain behavior in our public places? Why do we allow certain things in our workplaces? But those are decisions that we're going to have to make together about what is what do we want to tolerate is the community.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So I it's a difficult topic. So I hope that when we reconvene in our own perspective bodies, that we give it some thought. It's going to take time. But

[R9385-13] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Motion to approve the minutes. Thank you for second.
TEXT> Any other discussion? All in favor?  Aye, aye. Opposed? Great.  Student rep. Report. Good evening.
NEXT> Lexi: Good evening everyone. So I'm going to start off my report by giving a little update from Desert Elementary School. The kindergartners and first graders from Desert Elementary School got

[R9385-14] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School senior | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other discussion? All in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Great. Student rep. Report. Good evening.
TEXT> Good evening everyone.  So I'm going to start off my report by giving a little update from Desert Elementary School. The kindergartners and first graders from Desert Elementary School got a visit from the Claremont Fire Department to learn about fire safety and prevention. The second graders will soon be headed to the fire department to take part in this special program. With this program, it brings our community together to learn about an important issue. The Stephens JV boys soccer team went to continue the work. Their peers started on Community Service Day last night, spreading woodchips. Throughout this task, each of them continued to smile and encourage each other despite how unfun spreading woodchips can be.  The students and staff at Desert Elementary School, thank you all so much. The annual Spooky Story Night, along with a spaghetti dinner, all sponsored by the PTA, is coming up. The ones involved with the culinary arts program at the Sugar yeah, sugar River Valley Regional Technical center. That's quite a tongue twister. Are donating their time and preparing the food for this event. A huge thank you goes out to Mr. Lee, Liam Piazzi from all the staff and students at Desert Elementary School.
NEXT> Lexi: So for Stevens, on Saturday, October 14th, which was this past Saturday, the Stevens High School Marching band went to the Dover Band show at Dover High School. We performed

[R9385-16] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School senior | 2017-10-18
PREV> Lexi: on Monday, October 16th. Boys varsity soccer won against Fall Mountain Regional High School with a score of 2 to 0 on Monday, October 16th two. This is the third year in a row that Stevens Rescue Soccer has won the Bernard Cup. Congratulations, boys.
TEXT> Girls varsity soccer won against Conant High School with a score of 4 to 2. Congratulations to all this Stevens High School athletes on their wins. CMS football. My little brother plays football for middle school, and I just came from one of his games. And they just one  they won 28 to 12 against Woodstock Middle School from Vermont. So I had add that to  so tomorrow night at Stevens, which is the 19th, is our open house. Parents are welcome to come in through out the day in all of the classes to join us in the cafeteria for lunch. We ask that the parents come prepared with their ID to show at the front office. We will be ending our school day with a concert in the gym by our band and choir students. In the evening, we'll be having a Washington, DC informational night from 5 to 6 in the auditorium for the parents of the freshmen students going on the trip. Parents will be shown the sample itinerary for the trip and get a walk through on the payment plan. This week's agenda and all the details regarding this trip for freshmen and sophomores during April vacation in 2018.
NEXT> Lexi: Then our cafeteria will be open for our spaghetti dinner from 6 to 630, and then teachers and classrooms will be open from 630 to 730. We hope everyone will

[R9385-17] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School senior | 2017-10-18
PREV> Lexi: the freshmen students going on the trip. Parents will be shown the sample itinerary for the trip and get a walk through on the payment plan. This week's agenda and all the details regarding this trip for freshmen and sophomores during April vacation in 2018.
TEXT> Then our cafeteria will be open for our spaghetti dinner from 6 to 630, and then teachers and classrooms will be open from 630 to 730. We hope everyone will join us. We are planning for our first late start day next Friday, October 27th. Teachers will be receiving professional development in the morning, and then students are scheduled to arrive at 1045 to get lunch, which will then be served at 1130. Classes will go from 1130 to 206.  Stevens received a $1,000 scholarship from the New Hampshire Charitable Charitable Foundation for the Alternative program and Owls for the purchase of kitchen equipment, ingredients, and supplies for a teen nutrition and cooking class. Interns from Keene State will be working with our staff and teaching the classes. And that's my report.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[R9385-25] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, Sinton Street resident (name not stat | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thanks. We'll move on to citizens comments. See a few faces out there. Anybody for citizens comments? Could you come up and.
TEXT> Really sure to start this? But we're so we're from Sinton Street, the street that,  drivers have to go down to, to pick up their children and drop them off.  We've come here tonight,  for the issue of speeding,  not watching out for children blocking driveways.  We've said things, and, I mean, we still haven't seen anything happen. We've called the school, we've called Mister Cherry  notes would go home in the news newsletter over. The years saying, you know, to parents to please slow down and be more cautious. And it just it's just to a point where there's a lot of speeders  that are late dropping off their kids,  or late picking them up. And they're just it's really caused a lot of issues for all of us that live on that street. So it's a 30 mile an hour speed limit. From, from what we have found out. But if the school is going to use it as a school zone or drop off, we would like something to accommodate us. You know.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: This is a street near Maple Ave?

[R9385-35] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter on Sinton/Canterbury Street traffic (n | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: resolution would be to turn it into a school zone. You mentioned that it would be going to the traffic committee. I've sent a couple of emails in and I've not heard back from him, so I don't know what's happening with it, I think.
TEXT> But this issue is as of last year, we discussed this, you know, you being a resident on the street to have witnessed it. You know, we all feel it. I'm just so afraid some morning I'm gonna be standing there and see some child get hit by a car because they're going to fast. And  I, I talked to Mr. Cherry because I was almost hit, and I was told that I needed to be proactive by put up a fence, because at the time, I had a two year old toddler. She's now six. And we put up the fence. But honestly, a fence is not going to stop careless and reckless driving,  you know?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So I think I think as a board, do you.

[R9385-76] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's r | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: And it's a great picture right here.
TEXT> So if I take you back to 20 1516, this is where the data showed that we had low social emotional development for our three and four year olds. So we were invited. District was invited with eight other districts across the state to participate in this process. And through that process,  initially, we collected data and we developed an initial action plan, if you will. And that action plan showed us that the current preschool, then  we needed to evolve it to more,  we needed to migrate it from special ed and move it toward early childhood, which means that kids need access to more typically developing peers.  They need access to more least restrictive environments. They need  that particular program needed leadership and oversight from somebody who has a particular expertise in the development of early childhood programs. We needed more evidence based early childhood and curriculum. And so that sort of set in motion the first two years, which was all developing infrastructure. And the reason why we needed to develop that infrastructure is if we don't have a good, solid foundation of infrastructure, it's not sustainable. And so that has sort of led us to,  2016 and 17, our second year.
NEXT> Chris: We developed a again, based on our action plan, a leadership team process coach, and the Department of Ed consulting with us, monthly meetings with our process coach and the

[R9385-78] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's r | 2017-10-18
PREV> Chris: was our first time we were able to offer. We had three classrooms, and we were able to offer one of those classrooms in an early childhood model. So what's the difference between an early childhood class and a special ed class at the preschool?
TEXT> Is the ratio. It's the ratio of kids. So a special ed, self-contained room will have more special ed kids in less typically developing peers. And an early childhood model has a 5050 ratio. So last year was our first time. Again, this is all based on best practice, based on all of our work that we've been doing with our process coach, we were able to have one early childhood class and two special ed classrooms. Fast forward to this year. So knowing when we developed that action plan in 1516, one of the things that we identified was that we needed to have somebody who had a skill set and an expertise in early childhood development and programs.  Where do you where do you find somebody who has that skill and expertise? And we were so lucky,  to find Doctor Edwards because as she's going to, the infrastructure is set now. And what what we're going to see, I think the changes that have already been made since Diane came on July 1st  are exceptional. And I think that we've got the the whole thing set now to really take off. So I'm going to let you take it from here and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Look at the slides please.

[R9385-105] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: opportunities for high school kids. And that's what I used to do, called professor. And so, to offer that in a lab school environment would be a natural fit. And so that's where we'd like this to go. Does anybody have any questions for me?
TEXT> No questions. I just want to say I am  a big advocate for RTI. Love it.  And the when you were speaking about self-regulation and all that stuff, I, I'm so excited to hear you say that because it's so important. And I think most kids  come to preschool nowadays and they don't even have any idea how to self-regulate. So super stoked to hear you talking about that. And in the sensory room makes me want to cry. It's here as a joy because, I do ot so. I love I love all of this stuff right here. Great.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So should.

[R9385-119] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's r | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: We go forward.
TEXT> To we're also thinking that if you talk to the kindergarten folks right now, they will tell you themselves that these guys aren't kindergarten ready. So I think there's room for discussion.  Whether or not five year olds should go on to kindergarten or whether they would benefit from more time,  it's all about meeting kids. Where they at? Where they're at. So,
NEXT> Brian Rapp: But Michelle and.

[R9385-125] Lexi | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School senior | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: In college.
TEXT> So also I'm looking in your  brochure. I love the baby Cardinal, which I've already told you that. But, the music and movement part of your schedule. I am president of the tri m Music Honor Society at Stevens. So we're looking for things to, like, engage with, with, like, smaller children, like elementary school students and even, you know, smaller kids like this. So if you ever need.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: We.

[R9385-133] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Yeah, right.
TEXT> How are students selected to.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Be.

[R9385-137] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: It's open enrollment. And so all somebody would have to do is to apply. And as long as they met the age criteria, we can't take them until they're at least three.
TEXT> How many kids can you take.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So and again you know we're we're trying to balance that.

[R9385-140] Diane Edwards | Director, Early Childhood Program, Claremont School District | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, exactly.
TEXT> Right now we have three classrooms  and we will be opening up a fourth. But we don't want to open up the fourth until we have enough children to warrant the fourth classroom. And so right now we have,  52 children. We have seven children who are in the referral process, meaning they will probably qualify for services. They're coming to us from early intervention, and then we have a wait list of  five.
NEXT> Chris: There's already a. We've already. And this is the problem. When we set out on this mission a couple of years ago, the thing that we were going to we

[R9385-141] Chris | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (inferred from superintendent's r | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: warrant the fourth classroom. And so right now we have, 52 children. We have seven children who are in the referral process, meaning they will probably qualify for services. They're coming to us from early intervention, and then we have a wait list of five.
TEXT> There's already a. We've already. And this is the problem. When we set out on this mission a couple of years ago, the thing that we were going to we thought we were going to struggle with and we did last year, was where are we going to find typical. We're not going to, you know, I just can't make a typical machine out in the back and create them. But we have a waitlist now for for typical. So and we kept being reassured by  the, by the department. If you build this right they will come. And so that's where our philosophy is now is we've built it right. We've done the infrastructure work. Now let's get kids in here. And regardless of whether they have an IEP  or not, you've got at risk kids that are coming in. Let's just give them what they need, because that's the best indicator for us going forward that they're that they're going to be able to make it once they get to kindergarten.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Chris. And then.

[R9385-145] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Diane Edwards: Great. Thank you for the lead. Excellent.
TEXT> I'm sorry. Again, I just wanted to say to that, you use the words lack of exposure, and  I just wanted to tell you, I'm really happy to hear you say those words to. Because I feel in a time where there's so much  emphasis on academic, there's there's a big academic push. I think sometimes we forget that kids haven't even been exposed to scissors or sitting or  all of those, you know, things in the beginning. So I really like that you give time to tweak out what is lack of exposure and what may be  something that needs to be explored further, I like that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9385-162] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Next is school district community conversation.
TEXT> Just an update. We have collected almost 70 responses from students, parents, residents regarding the the letter that went out on October 13th.  Reminders going out tomorrow morning to students, parents and residents again. And it closes Friday afternoon.  We are making plans to have some professional development for our administrators in regards to diversity. We also I will share with you. I met with a consultant on Monday morning  and talking about developing  a plan. This consultant has 25 years of experience dealing with the issues of diversity and race.  A proposal will be sent. The proposal, if acceptable, will involve students, parents, faculty, as well as residents. As we as a community working  on this particular  on this particular challenge. So  you've heard me say that a plan is forming, but the objective isn't just to buy something and we're going to fix something, rather to establish a plan, provide input from a cross-section of the community, and then leading toward  how we're going to inform instruction. So this is going to evolve over time. And I it's it's I'm very pleased how it's taking shape and the interest.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I really look forward to the responses. Next week when we take and disaggregate the information and learn more about our our what our students, what our faculty, what

[R9385-166] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Is that part of the committee that you're forming information compiling for that committee?
TEXT> That's exactly right. Pieces are starting to align. And then the committee, which will be represented by, I believe it was a Rebecca and you and Brian initially. I also want to bring bring community and students into that. So we'll we'll shape this together.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So in the process of that, can we, if you like, last meeting. A lot of issues about that were discussed. But then I heard a lot of issues about

[R9385-169] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: It.
TEXT> A bullying policy, revisiting that, but as part of the policy to deal with behavior and conduct. But we don't have a presentation tonight about Claremont Middle School. But bullying is on future agenda topics. All right. And bullying could be I don't know Michelle, what the direction will be from the community input. But I think it's important that students, parents, staff and residents weigh in and then that's going to influence where we're going. I'd be very surprised if bullying  or how we treat each other, the behavior and conduct between adults, between students and vice versa,  isn't isn't part of where we're going. But I don't want to say this is what we should do without gathering views of the community.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And I think that's a huge view that I want to kind of bring into that, because the bullying seems to be and it's and again, it could go back

[R9385-181] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> At the end of the day, it really boils down to how we treat each other and how we as adults or how we talking about the schools, working with parents, redirecting guide and help students to learn certain skills. I mean, we have work to.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Do.

[R9385-189] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: You know.
TEXT> We can't go forward without the student voice.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah.

[R9385-195] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: have who are applying. Before the next school board meeting, she'll have a chance to learn more about them. And historically, you did want to establish some questions you might want to ask. And we had those prepared for you. We're on a fast track.
TEXT> Because I think it's important that the next. That the person who's going to complete Patrick's term come on board as soon as possible. So I just wanted to give you the FYI, as this is moving forward. And again, it's not just parents of Claremont students who have received this information. It's going out to the media. It's going to be in the paper and other media sources. So  our residents will have a chance to weigh in as well.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Just to clarify, the the nomination or the the person that we choose would serve until the next election, which would be in March, and that seat would be up

[R9385-209] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: He's, you know, it's it's a good guy and I'll miss him, but, it's just just figures that right after he gets on, he gets the, the his pretty much dream job. So, you know, wish I wish him luck. And, you know, I just.
TEXT> If I may,  I he, Patrick will receive a letter tomorrow or the next day from all of you and the administrative team thanking him. We're acknowledging him for what he contributed and his commitment to making decisions based on the needs of children. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9385-226] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: So you have having your packet policy.
TEXT> That was approved back in April. And I have taken the current policy and drawn lines through some of the portions of the policy that you felt, should be deleted. The spirit of the policy remains intact. And then after the original policy, you have another policy which says draft. And on the second page of that draft, you have at the bottom of the second page and opt out paragraph, which basically indicates that parents or guardians may choose to opt out from the requirement of submitting documentation that their child has been tested for lead blood or blood lead level.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Make a motion that we accept the rewrite of the lead policy as presented to us by the administration.

[R9385-237] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Just reads.
TEXT> Odd to me. That that paragraph, the essay six requires all children blah, blah, blah. Does that should that just be essays.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Six.

[R9385-316] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> One for just a second here? When we went into the last budget, which is the first time that I was a part of processes,  you know, we had a lot more people when we were negotiating. We had a lot more things that were negotiating.  And,  you know, I listened and learned. But one of the things that I saw happen that I requested was that special education be looked at. And that's not saying that anyone in special education is not doing their job. However,  a lot of money in special education is for outsourcing  or children's transportation. So. That budget seemed like we never even got to see anything much and we just ended up folding. I can understand Doctor Goodwin the concern.  However, I also can see that if we were to come back to the public and say, look, we are going to be able to stay again at this flat line that we've maintained for three years now because we haven't added or subtracted because we found out where we could or couldn't. So in this process, yes, we have to ask for that information. We have to be able to see the details that we were not privy to. The last contract that we did start out asking for. And I don't mean not privy to you, but it just it wasn't really looked at. It wasn't we didn't really take the time to look at it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And and so I feel that even though I was unable to attend the meeting, it was obvious for meeting the notes and stuff that they all have worked were

[R9385-409] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Fiscal year budget discussion.
TEXT> So what we did, this is the first look you were given, saturation studies, which basically shows the teachers at the high school, teachers at the middle school, teachers at the elementary school and class sizes. Some of the classes look small. Some of them are special needs. Some of them may be the fine arts. So you have to be discreet. Some of them in high school are studies. So. But you this was step one. It may not be what you wanted, but at least I'm attempting to give you the first the first pass. At this  you also have the number of new hires. You see, there are some new positions. I think there were like six of them. And then you see the staff lists. What I heard tonight was that you'd like to have a better understanding as to the roles and responsibilities of the staff positions. What I heard tonight is that which are grant funded, in which are paid for by the budget. Actuals versus. Reality, contracted services. More information about that, more information about special education. More information about us sending children to another part of the state for their education, because we're not able to meet their needs in house,  consolidated services. It was a question about the grant writer. So these are the type of statements that are very helpful because it allows us to be prepared to come back.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm comfortable with what I've given you, but this is my job. I don't think it's fair for me to assume that you understand what the Sock project manager is.

[R9385-439] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: That lately?
TEXT> Well, 2014, there was a front page article in Eagle Times showing a big yellow house and Stevens High School, and we were very close to acquiring that school district was going to buy it.  We had an architect come in. We had engineers come in the town, engineers came in and we were already to invest and then to bring students who are out of district in that fell through very quickly.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Right? We know that because of that.

[R9385-441] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Right? We know that because of that.
TEXT> We have got we've, we've we've been real estate agents trying to find a home or a building that we can retrofit and bring children from off site in  their home to be educated in the community. But every time we find the building, the architect comes in and it's been 200 to $400,000 in remodeling to have it be up to school code. Because a house or a building is not sufficient, it has to be up to code with what school code is.  So we we continue to look Michelle, but we continue to be unsuccessful.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess my question is, obviously we haven't had an update in quite a long time about that. So I think that we I think.

[R9385-450] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: ago, we heard from a local district, you know, if this happens, would you consider so? But the whole key is we'd rather have our children be educated in Claremont versus get in the van or a bus and travel X number of miles away.
TEXT> Well, right. I understood all that. I guess, like there's modular classrooms, that have been always been an option for every other place in the world for children to go to, which is not an expensive situation, I guess. I understand we talked a little bit about it and I heard pieces, but I guess I was asked, I guess what I would like to see or hear more of is,  Altieri or options other than buying a house. So is there a tier your options available, or could there be to look into? Just an idea, you know, to help the process. Because personally.
NEXT> Chris Irish: When you're.

[R9385-452] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-10-18
PREV> Chris Irish: When you're.
TEXT> When you're spending X amount of dollars to pay mileage for parents or grandparents to drive their children, I've done it. Ten years ago, I drove my daughter and took it high school can took it private school from here because Stevens couldn't handle it. That was ten years ago, over ten years ago,  and my reimbursement mileage per week was outrageous. And that was over ten years ago. I was getting a 3 to $400 check from Stevens from administration, just in being paid for mileage. So if you're paying every single out of district kid that's being driven by a parent or grandparent or whoever other than a.
NEXT> Unidentified: Bus.

[R9385-469] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Necessarily.
TEXT> Because we are using it right now for some other programs. I my current understanding is there's not classroom space here. So to add programs such as  an outside contracted service provider coming in to provide an alternative learning setting for students with disabilities would require space. And I believe I will double check this because I don't like to misspeak. But I believe that all of the classroom spaces in this building are currently being used.  So to have another program come in, they would need a place to go. Which would be why we wouldn't currently use this space. The restrictions of use  are a little bit different. It's my understanding with that is you can't displace an existing program. So we couldn't kick plumbing out and have a new program come in. In its place, a support identified students. But if the program space wasn't being used for its intended program and it was sitting there empty, then you could use it for something else.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So that's interesting that you say that because my understanding was different until just now, which, yeah. Which brings up a whole new bunch of ideas. And one of them

[R9385-473] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: We are space.
TEXT> Part of the strategic action plan is to look at how we're doing business. And that's one of the reasons I gave you the saturation study. If you took any time, I took a little bit of time this evening to look at the saturation study. There are two classes in the elementary that had 13 students in them. All the other classes in the elementary are large. In 13 at the middle school, there were no classes at the middle school that have 13 or less. Whereas at the high school there are 55 classes that have 13 or less. So that's something to look at. I have no agenda against Stevens High School, but if we talk about efficiencies, can we afford or do we have the mindset, by the way, that we will say to a student, I know you want that course, but we have a protocol that we have to have so many students in that course. So these are the kind of things I think we need to discuss.
NEXT> Unidentified: But.

[R9385-476] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-10-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: You know, but I've always been an advocate at the smallest classes should be in the elementary. But we have classes in the mid 20s in the elementary, but over 50, 13 or less at the high school. So that's something we should look at.
TEXT> We've also discussed trying to have. Students get at the high school, be able to take some of their their credits here as sort of a dual dual purposing. Embedded credits. Yeah.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But while we're on that, that's a conversation that always concerns me when we why? I think we really have to focus on this tech center this, this year because

[R9385-511] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> I don't think we talked about it as consolidating them as one. The conversation was more being able to use staff in both programs.  But the two programs are for different  groups of students, different types of students. So there's staff overlap that we were able to achieve this year.  So that's why it's important to have those two programs in, in Spatial context to each other so that they're physically near each other to the staff can overlap the two. But I don't I don't know that they could collapse further. In eight  more. That would have to be a broader discussion.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We good with. See.

