[R15240-157] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: A Goddard block.
TEXT> It was very successful down there. So I would I would want us to work with a real estate agent. Bonnie, maybe. And,  you know, a place that's in close proximity to the high school so that those students can still access nursing services if, if necessary, or, you know, administrative oversight, things of that nature. So, okay. I mean, I think that depending on the timeline for renovation and I don't know that where we're at with timeline for that, but,  you know, it would be a one year or two year, perhaps housing it here, which would give us ample time to identify a, you know, an a non-tech center location. Okay. Yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R15240-161] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: program, opportunities for them to become invested in order to be successful. But my question is, what other support will be there for those students? Career counselor? In addition to the work that we will be doing and the power, will there be additional supports?
TEXT> Hopefully the the way the program is, is structured or funded now, there wouldn't be additional,  support personnel on site every day. You know, we the program would have to rely on, you know, the guidance counselors at the high school for some of the career, you know,  you know, career readiness, exploration. I would say  we if the students needed mental health counseling, we do have a district wide mental health counselor that would that would serve those students. They would be on her caseload.  And then we we currently have two social workers district wide. So they would be they would be available to support students, but it wouldn't be on a, on a day to day, you know, arrangement.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Are they usually in this building for some other purpose or this would be in addition to what they're usually doing traditionally doing.

[R15240-163] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Are they usually in this building for some other purpose or this would be in addition to what they're usually doing traditionally doing.
TEXT> They I mean, they would have to make the trip here just practically speaking. But, you know, if if the students that were targeting ten are presently at the high school, the, the social worker and perhaps the mental health counselor would would know those students and would, you know, would just need to come up here geographically to support them. Yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[R15240-171] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: So their day. So that's not an issue.
TEXT> Oh absolutely. Yeah. Residential students are the most needy and be okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To do that. So the content teachers that are mentioned, that sign off as certified, as being the certified, the person in charge of the course, are they compensated for

[R15240-202] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes this special meeting (segment | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: I think that's all I have.
TEXT> Capturing 1 or 2 of these  ready to come back kids that would otherwise stay out of district. What would be the budget impact of returning 1 or 2 kids to the district? Okay.
NEXT> Ben Nester: There's a you know, there's a differential in cost, but depending on the school they attend, you know, without providing too much information, I would estimate anywhere from 150 to

[R15240-203] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Capturing 1 or 2 of these ready to come back kids that would otherwise stay out of district. What would be the budget impact of returning 1 or 2 kids to the district? Okay.
TEXT> There's a you know, there's a differential in cost, but depending on the school they attend,  you know, without providing too much information,  I would estimate anywhere from 150 to $200,000 if we were able to, you know, reintegrate two students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R15240-206] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: That includes transportation.
TEXT> Yes. In this case, because we provide our own transportation through the garage. But if, if, if we offer if we if we pay a private provider to transport students, which we have to do in some cases because of capacity of our own garage, you're looking at a, you know, 20 to $50,000 bill annually just to just to get the student to school them back over the course of a year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Before we open for discussion. I just want to take a moment to kind of condense what we talked about here. So before we have our discussion all working with

[R15240-209] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes this special meeting (segment | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: And there's a track record of program being.
TEXT> Successful, established track record of it being of a program similar to this functioning well at the technical College. The focus of the program is student retention, preventing dropout. We will perhaps be able to pull 1 or 2 student neuro  diverse students back into the district if they are ready. Our target student population is 10th and 11th grade, primarily 11th grade. Our total target student number is 10 to 12. We have a certified special education teacher and two paraprofessionals that are in budget already that will cover the cost of the program.  Is there anything else that anybody here thinks I'm missing? Supports will be available from the high. School in the district. That are already in the district to support the students.  Is there any other any other information that I think I'm missing?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: One of one of my concerns is I understand that some of these students are. Have disruptive behavior at the high school. Is that a fair description, Ben?

[R15240-213] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: So.
TEXT> So, so in a, in a different setting, albeit in the high school, in a different setting with lower, you know, six kids in the class and three adults, regardless of where it is, that creates frameworks for more success.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It does.

[R15240-216] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Having it here.
TEXT> Yeah. Well, didn't matter where you're saying if you have six students and three teachers, just the the construct construct of the program is what contributes to the success regardless of where their location is?
NEXT> Mike Koski: That's not true.

[R15240-222] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, so so can you. Can you, not guarantee, but, I don't want to put disruptive behaviors in another in other school setting.
TEXT> It's a valid it's a valid point. We don't want to take take students that are disrupting the daily operation of the high school and have them come up here and disrupt the operation of the tech center. Right. That's that's 100% what we don't want to do.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And and I mean, low on the list, but still on the list is, the reference to taking making available CTE programs. I think that my experience has been that

[R15240-223] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: it's a valid point. We don't want to take take students that are disrupting the daily operation of the high school and have them come up here and disrupt the operation of the tech center. Right. That's that's 100% what we don't want to do.
TEXT> And and  I mean, low on the list, but still on the list is, the reference to taking  making available CTE programs. I think that my experience has been that kids are most successful in the CTE program when they choose to be part of the CTE program. It is a it's a conscious decision. And and because they.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can we this isn't a question as much as or do you have a question or can we move on to.

[R15240-225] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Can we this isn't a question as much as or do you have a question or can we move on to.
TEXT> The question is,  if these students don't physically don't actually make an,  a conscious decision to take the CTE, then how can they be successful in that if, if part of it's being here and taking CTE courses, if they don't, if they're if that's not in their plan, then how can that part of it be successful.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R15240-227] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Valid point. Quickly I'll respond I, I, I think that, you know, when you I know that when you look at the profile of students we're targeting. Right. These are students that typically do excel in tech center courses because it's hands on. It's interesting to them. Many of them are already in the workforce. You know, they're they're making every effort to exit the high school and move on with their lives. You know, we want to we want to get them there as quickly as possible.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Would a tech course be a requirement for this program or would it be a student choice?

[R15240-228] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Nester hands off with 'Mr. Kosky did | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: It's interesting to them. Many of them are already in the workforce. You know, they're they're making every effort to exit the high school and move on with their lives. You know, we want to we want to get them there as quickly as possible.
TEXT> Would a tech course be a requirement for this program or would it be a student choice?
NEXT> Ben Nester: It wouldn't be a requirement. It would be it would be an option.

[R15240-230] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: It wouldn't be a requirement. It would be it would be an option.
TEXT> And and so the, the student would have to option into availing themselves of the CT programs.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I mean, when I'm trying to think of sort of a if you pick, practically speaking, right, let's say I'm sitting across the table from a potential student. Yeah. And

[R15240-231] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: And and so the, the student would have to option into availing themselves of the CT programs.
TEXT> I mean, when I'm trying to think of sort of a if you pick, practically speaking, right, let's say I'm sitting across the table from a potential student. Yeah. And I would do a transcript review with the guidance counselor, and we would look at all their transcripts. Right. And I would I would see that, you know, they they still need, you know, two math credits and, and an English credit. And we would, you know, we would discuss what their goals are. And again, Lee and others have done this more extensively than I have. And this is really a function of guidance in a way. But you identify that, you know, we can have them take their, their math and their English course and the, the, the bio course that they're still missing. They do that via the online program, but they, you know, but they, they have an interest in construction. You know, maybe your dad works construction or owns a small company. So we'd say, hey, we have, you know, construction one and two here at the tech Center, and we would work with Alex and others. And if the if there was room, right, if it wasn't capped, then they would be enrolled in a construction course.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So that would be like just sort of a trying to paint a picture of what that might look like, you know, instead of just offering conceptual or theoretical, you

[R15240-232] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: we'd say, hey, we have, you know, construction one and two here at the tech Center, and we would work with Alex and others. And if the if there was room, right, if it wasn't capped, then they would be enrolled in a construction course.
TEXT> So that would be like just sort of a trying to paint a picture of what that might look like, you know, instead of just offering conceptual or theoretical, you know, picture of of enrolling students in a course.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, sure.

[R15240-237] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is this discussion or.
TEXT> Question question? You may not have the answer at your fingertips. Have have the students  who are deemed appropriate for this program, have they taken CTE classes in the past? Have they already had contact with the classes here?
NEXT> Unidentified: Probably not.

[R15240-248] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: No, I. So I.
TEXT> It is disruptive wildly disruptive I think the the the point I was trying to make is that when again I'm not a behavior analyst, but I'm pretty close to it in my background. And so when you think of behavior, you're thinking of refusal behavior, you're thinking of property disruption, you're thinking of aggression, and you're thinking of, when I say aggression, property destruction, disruption and noncompliance, sort of low level disruption. So if you kind of put behavior in those four categories, we're not targeting property disruptive, disruptive, destructive students. We're not targeting aggressive students. We're targeting students with low levels, low levels of disruption, you know, low to moderate levels of refusal behavior.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R15240-275] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: us to consider. Is that I just want to make sure that we're applying our, you know, our exclusions equally. So we have a preschool program here which is currently not compliant. Not that I, I love CCTV, but we now we house CCTV here.
TEXT> That used to actually be a program. There were kids that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Correct. And I know the preschool had a program, but neither one of these entities are now in compliance. So if we are concerned if that's going to be our

[R15240-301] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - say | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Favor?
TEXT> Yeah. I think that it's reasonable to house it here temporarily and then explore alternative options. We know that research says that programs that are for alternative students don't perform well, and they don't succeed when they're housed in the same location as peer students or high school students. So I think that since we don't have another option as of yet, it makes sense to utilize space in this building that's not currently being used.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R15240-314] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; a realtor - Sprague asks 'is it a confl | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right.
TEXT> So I, I just keeps coming back. I understand what Ben's trying to do. And I get it, I really do. But I keep thinking of the, you know, New Hampshire  Statute 188 E-3 that says upon completion, the constructed or renovated facility shall be become the property of the school district or public academy for use by Career and Technical Education Center exclusively. And it's the exclusively word that really scares me because we're helping a lot of kids. If this goes through this renovation and that's that's what makes me nervous.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What else could I speak against the motion?

[R15240-344] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - the chair add | 2023-08-09
PREV> Alex Herzog: a privilege for students that really want to go into the career fields. We work hard to make sure they get those experiences, that we get employers to come in. And like I said, I'm not opposed to this, but why not the high school?
TEXT> Why can't it be there? I hear, well, there's research. Well, I'm not getting a definitive answer on that. And so that's something that we really need to think about. Plus, you know,  I think it's the ethics of it. RSA is the RSA.  If we're going to walk around being you know, I know there's a the lawsuit. We're mad because we're not getting the funding we need, but because quite frankly, we're not getting it from the state. But it's an ethics thing to me. How can we go against what the rules are if we're here, standing here saying, hey, we want students to learn and be productive members of society, but we're going to work around these issues because even though that's a rule. So that that bothers me a little bit, too. And where I stand on these things,  I have concerns about reporting structure. I already talked to Ben about that when we had the life skills upstairs this last year, and that was a discussion, The Tempest. Mr. Tempesta and I had  quite a lot  in regards to that space. They felt like they were an island because they just didn't get the support they needed.  And now they've moved back down to the high school.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And that's for students with the special needs that are a little older. So I mean, there's been that continue. And then of course students and if they're not a

[R15240-345] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - the chair add | 2023-08-09
PREV> Alex Herzog: that was a discussion, The Tempest. Mr. Tempesta and I had quite a lot in regards to that space. They felt like they were an island because they just didn't get the support they needed. And now they've moved back down to the high school.
TEXT> And that's for  students with the special needs that are a little older. So I mean, there's been that continue. And then of course students and if they're not a disruptive nature, which we've had some before,  I can tell you we have a lot of dangerous equipment here, a lot of dangerous tools, knives and all that. And we really take safety seriously. We have to, because we can't give a good program without a high safety level. So that's me coming as the director coming in.  Like I said, I'm not opposed to it. You know,  I was a little shocked that it came up so quickly. And all of a sudden I heard about it accidentally. When I reached out to Ben, he reached back, you know,  but this is a and I was told  this is just a preliminary. We're talking about it. And I have two other sources that said, no, it was a done deal from the beginning. And I think with the vision committee here, we're really trying to make something different happen here. So we're we were just surprised and I shared that, hey, this is coming up. And that's why many of the members are here tonight. So I'm here to answer any further questions. But that's what I have. To say for now. Thank you, thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there anyone else would like to comment, sir?

[R15240-347] John Lambert | Substitute teacher at the technical center, former business owner, bor | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there anyone else would like to comment, sir?
TEXT> John Lambert I'm a substitute teacher here. I'm also a previous business owner and community born in Claremont. Live in Charlestown. How are the students identified? Do they have  deficiency in reading and math primarily that prevents them from taking maybe,  technical programs? I mean, they have to have their core subjects before they can take this elective here. This should be a core. But yeah. And, you know, I'm all for aiding those students. And I think the class side is terrific. And you have two students, two teachers, if they're if they're as learning disabled and they have paraprofessionals with them, will they be in that class or are you relying on the staff that you have.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Two pairs in a teacher, right.

[R15240-350] John Lambert | Substitute teacher at the technical center, former business owner, bor | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. You want me to respond or how do you.
TEXT> They would follow that student so they would have the extra help in that class.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R15240-352] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> The you know, we're not targeting students that are like very low academic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R15240-355] John Lambert | Substitute teacher at the technical center, former business owner, bor | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: We're really looking at kids that could absolutely earn a diploma. And so when we think of having a two paraprofessionals and their to support all the kids.
TEXT> Can they practice, can they participate in the tech without being disruptive and, and safe behavior. And that's very, very a problem. You know,  another thing is the student that's a parent better served by the academy or whatever it's called in the form of Dan, I love building on the corner of Maine and Elm. They they have a whatever. They have a school program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: They're the charter school.

[R15240-358] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> There's,  that's another big topic, John. But the the charter school is, is  going to serve a handful of kids, as we understand it this year. They've I believe they've hired two staff and I took Mr. Putnam share that with me earlier.
NEXT> John Lambert: So but they they cater the parent. They have daycare there so they can you know, and so it's a much better learning environment so they can have their child

[R15240-359] John Lambert | Substitute teacher at the technical center, former business owner, bor | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: There's, that's another big topic, John. But the the charter school is, is going to serve a handful of kids, as we understand it this year. They've I believe they've hired two staff and I took Mr. Putnam share that with me earlier.
TEXT> So but they they cater the parent. They have daycare there so they can you know, and so it's a much better learning environment so they can have their child with them and still get a high school education there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R15240-363] John Lambert | Substitute teacher at the technical center, former business owner, bor | 2023-08-09
PREV> John Lambert: have to require them to at least get some CTE exposure. Yeah. Whether it fits or not, let them make that decision and assist them with math and English skills. In this low, classroom size, you can't if it's a student that's having a problem.
TEXT> Learning an online program is not going to do it. You have to have some interaction with that student, not just focused on the two. That isn't going to happen, but I think you can do it. And the carrot is you can go to the tech program if you're completing, if you're working on your math and English so you can graduate, you know, and, I think another thing is it's, you know, we're talking about the tech school often was considered to be a dumping ground just for the low performers, you know, and and it's it shouldn't be considered that. But what you're doing has a bit of a connotation for that. I'll turn it of Ed, why don't you call it in hat Stevens High School Enhanced Learning  Program or something? You know, a sanitary engineer sounds a lot better than the janitor, right? So give it another name that a positive connotation, and look for some opportunities in the technical field to make it a successful program for them.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Mr.. In the back. And I can come back to you, sir. Yes, please. Just for school. Thank you.

[R15240-368] David Putnam | Ward 2 resident and Tech Center Visioning Committee participant - self | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Putnam.
TEXT> Thank you, David Putnam, Ward two. Just to explain with the charter school, which is  hosted by Kathy Pellerin,  their license currently for their charter school, part of their program has slots for 30 students. They are there. Their internal capacity is 26. Leaving for slots open for transient students. And Mr. Tempesta and, the principal have met with Kathy and they they have talked. Ben has talked with her. And since our conversation tonight, he plans on calling her to, you know, make sure everything's in the up and up of what they've been talking about. The Department of Ed publishes this,  two pager on alternative programs in public schools. And if you don't have this,  you should, it clearly defines  all the regulations and expectations. A couple of questions I have in regards to what is there a reason, specific lists of reasons why it fails in a high school and when I'm when I used to do this school stuff and I would do other work in the community and other boards, when we see a list of issues that hinder or handicap efforts that we're making, we try to find ways of overcoming those issues so that we can continue working and moving forward.
NEXT> David Putnam: So that would be my recommendation, trying to make it work in the high school. There has to be specific reasons why in what what are the answers to fixing

[R15240-371] Deb | Ward 3 resident and former Stevens High School teacher - her self-iden | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you. Sir.
TEXT> Hi. I'm. I'm Deb. Ward three. I have a few just clarifying questions. Many, many years ago, I actually was a teacher at Stevens High School. And at that time, the owls program was in the downstairs,  level. And students entered  that program just through the front door and just went downstairs. So their their presence in the building, I was on the third floor, and perhaps that's why. But I just I never felt that. I never even noticed that the program was there. So I don't know if anybody has any history on that or could speak to whether or not that worked or why that didn't work.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That wasn't the program.

[R15240-376] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Deb: Yes. Was that isn't that a similar program or. No. Okay.
TEXT> No. That was all  individualized  programing. It was not done with with computers or credit recovery is very cumbersome.  And honestly, the years I was there, a large graduating class from that setting was 1 or 2 kids per year.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R15240-381] Deb | Ward 3 resident and former Stevens High School teacher - self-identifi | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: That Scott? Do you. Remember that cap? It was a cap program. That's what it was, right? Well, in the. Fall after that, the owls was started. Well. After that, well. After that. Yeah.
TEXT> Okay.  Next question. Do these students, will they receive a regular diploma or will they have some type of alternative diploma.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Of a high school diploma from.

[R15240-383] Deb | Ward 3 resident and former Stevens High School teacher - self-identifi | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Of a high school diploma from.
TEXT> Just a regular high school? Okay.  And then you another question you spoke about  out of district students that  might be able to return and that this environment might be one that would help them be successful. And I guess I'm having a hard time wrapping my head around the type of student that that might work for, because typically out of districts, students have some type of need that's so far away from what we're able to provide in a public school setting, that the out of district setting is the only place that we can give them the services that they they need. So could you describe a student, not a particular student, but in generalities? Is there a way to talk about a type of kid who might currently be out of district, who, you see, might be able to be successful with this program?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Let me think of a nondescript example.

[R15240-386] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So imagine a child that, for whatever reason, had a tumultuous home. Life is an example, maybe. And, you know, was was aggressive for a period of time, you know, maybe at the late elementary school level when they're starting to get larger and can do damage when they become aggressive.  And they, they may have needed to go out of district at that time, let's say, as a fifth grader and then,  you know, as they developed and grew, you know, over those two, three, four years in and out of district placement, they've they've improved developmentally and have gained the skills to now, you know, effectively, you know, be in a community school community. And so that would be an example of that. I mean, okay, there are there are cases where students profiles remain somewhat static. And so example of that may be a child with a with a syndrome or something. There's a certain level of cognitive ability there that may remain fairly static over time. But students that you know have maybe a more average intellectual capacity, you know, they may improve areas of behavior, things like that over time, which is our which is our goal when we have them go out of district for them to learn the skills and then ultimately transition back.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R15240-394] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Deb: Tell you we can leave it at that.
TEXT> What we have discussed is Chris Pratt will be overseeing the program. That's his intention. And so if there's a something behavioral that needs to be addressed at some point, Chris would be the point person for that. I would imagine if there was a medical emergency or something like a child had a seizure. Alex, this being his building, would respond to a situation like that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. All right. Thank you.

[R15240-408] Unidentified | Brief interjection, assent or backchannel - the diarizer pooled roughl | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah.
TEXT> I mean students. Students. Okay.
NEXT> Ben Nester: The only time where where we had to have a more extensive conversation with, with the director at the Newport Tech Center was if we had a child that was,

[R15240-409] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: I mean students. Students. Okay.
TEXT> The only time where  where we had to have a more extensive conversation with, with the director at the Newport Tech Center was if we had a child that was, you know, severely disabled cognitively and we would explain what supports were coming with them, you know, to keep them safe.
NEXT> Derek: And the last clarifying question, 6 to 8, 12 to 16, 10 to 12 is it is that total students or is that per session? My understanding is there's an

[R15240-410] Derek | Ward 3 resident and member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee - se | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: had to have a more extensive conversation with, with the director at the Newport Tech Center was if we had a child that was, you know, severely disabled cognitively and we would explain what supports were coming with them, you know, to keep them safe.
TEXT> And the last clarifying question, 6 to 8, 12 to 16, 10 to 12 is it is that total students or is that per session? My understanding is there's an Am session and a PM session. So there's actually two cohorts total.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah.

[R15240-412] Derek | Ward 3 resident and member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee - se | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah.
TEXT> Total. So the total. And then when you say 12 to 16 is that total. So it would be 6 to 8 per correct. Okay. Yeah.  And then the  I guess the next last question.  So my most recent experience with a child who graduated was in 2021. And I think the dropout rate was around 25 to 30%. Think the numbers are like 115 and like 85 to 90 walked. So the number is significant. Sure.  And I get your  comment about starting small to make sure that it succeeds. But with the, I guess, sort of the upper limit of this would be roughly that target population of about 25 to 30 students, assuming that that holds every year. And what I what I cited was a snapshot in time, but I'm assuming it's probably around there and not going down.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R15240-416] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Nester hands off with 'Mr. Kosky did | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Mr. Pratt has instituted some other programs to address that larger group. And I think Ben's program is dressing a very narrow range of students. But there are a lot of students who just, for a variety of reasons, haven't received enough credits. They're creating a it's an Excel program, but it's a way to accelerate credit accumulation so they can graduate on time.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah.

[R15240-423] Derek | Ward 3 resident and member of the Tech Center Visioning Committee - se | 2023-08-09
PREV> Derek: she had left the room, Doug said, she was one of my original few kids. So those those were very powerful anecdotes. I mean, it was five years ago, but I recall I probably used that example a million times in the five years since.
TEXT> So if there's going to be a strong CTE component, I could really see some value for the district with the graduation rates for these individuals and their future success and for our community at large.  I think I jotted down a formula since we're talking about school.  So if you take this group of few kids and you add CTE and you provide the structure in the oversight, and the initial presentation seems to indicate that we're going to have that. So we don't repeat the failures of the past. And there's measurement and verification, which again it's been referenced. What the metrics are will kind of wait and see. Then I think it's worth a try. So that plus that plus that plus that equals worth a try. And I think if we if we're convinced that  the success measures are demonstrated,  but there are a few caveats. One caveat is I think it's got to be tied to CTE, and that may be easier said than done.  I would be very reticent to support this if it jeopardized any of the renovation funding. And I'll tell you, we've asked that question, I think, no less than 900 times as part of the visioning Committee. And I think if you getting an answer like putting your thumb on Mercury.
NEXT> Derek: So good luck. But I do agree with Whitney. And if you can get a straight answer that you can have some credence. And I think that would be a

[R15240-433] Gary Merchant | Ward 2 resident and New Hampshire state representative - his own name, | 2023-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Gary Merchant. Ward two, in Claremont in Croydon. And a wonderful state house in Concord. I'll keep my comments sort of brief tonight. I don't want to take up much of your time. It's getting late. I would ask the board to consider before you do anything is why do we have to do it now? If I understand this correctly, we haven't had something in place for a period of time and all of a sudden we have this need at 11 our on a school academic year. So I question why we have to have it today. We haven't had it for 2 or 3 years, so what's the hurry to do it now? Number two, I do think that we have to do something with alt ed, because we have a lot of students that drop out, and we need to find a way to keep them in school to become productive members of our society.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: So I think to Mr. Nester and to Miss Whitney and rest of the school board members and Mr. Kosky, I commend you for looking at doing something to help

[R15240-434] Gary Merchant | Ward 2 resident and sitting New Hampshire state representative for Cla | 2023-08-09
PREV> Gary Merchant: it now? Number two, I do think that we have to do something with alt ed, because we have a lot of students that drop out, and we need to find a way to keep them in school to become productive members of our society.
TEXT> So I think to Mr. Nester and to Miss Whitney and rest of the school board members and Mr. Kosky, I commend you for looking at doing something to help those students out, because we desperately need to do something as a community. I would also ask that when you talk about your amendment, your motion, that you don't wait until January to find an alternate location, that you start doing it today and at the same time to instruct administration to look for alternate sites, but at the same time,  start thinking about how you're going to fund it because the budget is going to be coming up real quick. They're going to need money to do the research to explore things, and that is something the board will have to approve. So I'd ask you to be sure you get a legal review so we don't jeopardize long term of this facility and at the same time start giving them the opportunity with the funding they need to look for something because space is not out there readily be a commercial space.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: It takes time. It doesn't come up. I'm sure it's miss Miles will tell you it's not something that's out there readily. And I would also say at the same

[R15240-443] Lee Malloy | Special educator newly hired for Stevens High School and the proposed  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Thomas, I'll be quick because it's late.  I think that there's a couple of things that I just kind of wanted to answer. One. So against alternative program. So let's I do have a name in. Mind. Then make that decision. And when you said it, he gave me a look because I was like, So a couple pieces that I just kind of wanted to, to touch base on was one of the things that  with monitoring courses, right, we're going to be looking at we have the ellos which has rubrics, which has very defined, plans that go into it, plus the Odyssey where which would be looked at by teachers and we would be monitoring and making sure that those would be moving forward. So there's definitely not a free for all that would be there. Another big piece  is that there is going to be when we think about these students. And he just left and I missed his name. But those students that he was talking about with Hartford, right, as my husband's a high school teacher. And while there's a student that constantly just gets up and walks out of the room or won't put their phone away or won't stop talking to somebody, and when you're like, hey, this is what's going on, it's forget this.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: You know, this is stupid. Those are the disruptions. Those are the that's a that's a big piece of our profile that we're looking at. Is that particular. We will

[R15253-11] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District - the chair announce | 2023-08-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: modifications to the agenda? Seeing none. All in favor of modifying the agenda, say aye. I I'll post no opposition. Modification of agenda passes. So we're going to move directly into our first agenda item, which is going to be a presentation by Miss Henry.
TEXT> Okay. So the plan is so far that we are going to be sending out things on Facebook to put out a QR code with a brief statement about the application process and if they need help.  It's it's like a flier is what we'll do. We'll put out a flier on Facebook that tells people who to contact. If you want information, the QR code they can scan to go right to the application and be able to fill it out there. The other thing we're going to do is school wide messages that we can do through our app  and send those out as well. What I'd like to do is see 3 or 4 go out before, mainly right before the last week in October. You know, last week, excuse me in September because October 1st is our deadline. I know they said in the paper that you could apply until October 15th, which is a true statement. That's when your  ability to receive a free and reduced waiver from the previous year runs out. But I'm going to stress to people, October 1st is our deadline to be able to get adequacy aid for fiscal year 25. I can't stress that more. Please, please, please. It's $2,300 a kid currently and an additional $8,500 a kid. Again, we have hold harmless grant, but even so, about 880 kids is our break even point per my calculations.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Based on the spreadsheet that I have from Mark Manganiello, who's at the state who gives us all our adequacy aid information. So again, like I said, please, please, please

[R15253-19] Gary Merchant | New Hampshire State Representative for Sullivan District 6 (Claremont  | 2023-08-16
PREV> Mary Henry: in for the mailing to go out this week, so it will be going out soon. I think it's going out the beginning of next week. It'll be printed and gone out. So the mailing to all the families in the district. Thank you. Yep.
TEXT> How's that? Before we get started, I wanted to induce who we are. We are?  My name is Gary Merchant. I'm a rep for Selman. Selman district six, which is Claremont and Croydon. And with me today I also have represented Damon represented cloudier. But before we get started, I want to have a call out to both Miss Henry and Miss Daniel for their assistance and help us in this journey. Without it, we probably wouldn't have would not go where we are today. So the intent of this, just to frame it, I look at even though I noticed as a school as far as the benefit, making it more of a community project is build a culture within the community and have a all of us working together as a team and all rowing together in the same boat. So that's the concept behind it. It's trying to find a way that we, as much as possible, accurately reflect as many students. A qualified for  that will help them out as well as the school. So that's kind of where I'm coming from, but I'm going to turn it over to the Damon. Good first. Thank you. There you go.
NEXT> Hope Damon: So good evening, everybody, and thank you for giving us the opportunity to present to you. And I would like to note that, yes, we put a decent amount of

[R15253-20] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative (Croydon; House Education Funding)  | 2023-08-16
PREV> Gary Merchant: as possible, accurately reflect as many students. A qualified for that will help them out as well as the school. So that's kind of where I'm coming from, but I'm going to turn it over to the Damon. Good first. Thank you. There you go.
TEXT> So good evening, everybody, and thank you for giving us the opportunity to present to you. And I would like to note that, yes, we put a decent amount of effort into the presentation, but far more importantly, into the whole concept of how could we help increase the legitimate enrollments for free and reduced. So I spent my career as a dietitian and diabetes educator and working with folks with eating disorders, which led me to know a whole lot about hunger and what happens when you're hungry, and especially when it is persistent food insecurity. And I should actually, just peripherally, also acknowledge my mom, who spent her career as a school food service director. It's kind of near and dear. So the reasons to focus on free and reduced lunch, the new, budget in this state biennium that we're now in places a lot more emphasis on the number of students with free and reduced lunch to affect what the educational funding from the state is. Basically, FNR  has been used as a proxy for a communities need for financial resources, and now it's being emphasized even more. It's a proxy nationally. This isn't anything unique to New Hampshire or Claremont, but the New Hampshire state budget is now weighing it heavier. The state aid, as Miss Henry has informed  two weeks ago, is based on the numbers of the prior school year.
NEXT> Hope Damon: So the funding for 2324, starting imminently, is based on the 2223 school year, and then obviously 2425 will be based on this school years numbers. So, as was just

[R15253-22] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative (Croydon) - the same voice, one seg | 2023-08-16
PREV> Hope Damon: get impatient. You don't think straight things need to be repeated. It doesn't go well. Well, it's the same for these kids, and particularly in the math area, scores are lower, substantially lower in kids who are food insecure compared to those who are not.
TEXT> How do we get to the next one? So this slide, most of this information is from New Hampshire Hunger Solutions, which is a wonderful New Hampshire nonprofit that's working really hard in a whole variety of different ways to help families and children be fed their data. From July 10th this year, 49% of New Hampshire children live in households that report insufficient food, at least some of the time. It's somewhat cyclical, depending on what resources they have and when they receive those resources. In Sullivan County, only half of the individuals eligible eligible for Snap Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. What many people know of formerly as food stamps, only half of the people eligible for Snap are enrolled. As we noted, people don't think as well when they're hungry, and children who experience food insecurity do repeat grades more often than children do not who do not. Students who eat breakfast have better attendance, have higher math scores, have fewer behavioral issues, and are sick less often. And just as a quick personal anecdote, when my daughter is now in their 30s, were in preschool, one of them was absent for illness for three days. And when I brought her back to school, the teacher said, we missed her so much.
NEXT> Hope Damon: And I said, oh, you're so sweet. She said, no, Sasha's never absent. I said, that's cause she's never sick. And it was some luck and a lot of other

[R15253-23] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative (Croydon; House Education Funding)  | 2023-08-16
PREV> Hope Damon: often. And just as a quick personal anecdote, when my daughter is now in their 30s, were in preschool, one of them was absent for illness for three days. And when I brought her back to school, the teacher said, we missed her so much.
TEXT> And I said, oh, you're so sweet. She said, no, Sasha's never absent. I said, that's cause she's never sick. And it was some luck and a lot of other variables. But also kids who are fed are much less likely to get mundane illness.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: So this is kind of a complicated slide. Fundamentally there is three numbers within the state budget. One is when they created the budget for communities, they wanted a community

[R15253-25] Gary Merchant | New Hampshire State Representative for Sullivan District 6 (Claremont  | 2023-08-16
PREV> Gary Merchant: now, Miss Henry, Department of Education are working on the final numbers, which will drive the adequacy and also the target date and hold harmless. So the question is can it be done? I think it can. And these are the numbers again that are.
TEXT> Place and time in Claremont. Based upon the last numbers that we get from Medicaid, there's 105 students that are eligible are on Medicaid. After we certification, they expect that number to go down by 20% because many people who are on Medicaid couldn't come off Medicaid and government blocked it. So if you look at the number here. You take 80% of 1105, you got 884 approximately. That comes down to 56.7%. If you have 1559 students in school year 2018 2019. Before the pandemic, Claremont had 904. That's based upon the data coming out of the Department of Education. So if you look at fiscal year 25 and beyond, what happens is we get above 884. They means an additional million dollars if we get there. I'm not saying we will, but that's the target and it's only estimates. This is. So how are we going to do it Johnny? Want to speak to that?
NEXT> John Cloutier: Yeah. Just just do this slide.

[R15253-29] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative (Croydon; House Education Funding)  | 2023-08-16
PREV> John Cloutier: three elementary schools, our middle school and high school. And for those of you just to be clear, and those of you at home, Caniff stands for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and Snap stands for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Programs. And these are federal programs.
TEXT> So we have already connected with TPN, TLC, the Claremont Soup Kitchen, Baby steps. Have we talked to southwest? I'm not sure if that one's confirmed yet. West Central Behavioral Health and started connecting with some folks in the faith communities. No one is disinterested in helping Claremont children be fed. They are all willing to participate in whatever way is appropriate to do so, whether it is simply reminding people that they have this option, handing out a postcard with the QR code on it, or helping them fill out applications. It's not against federal law. To help people fill out an application, the application has to be confidential once it is submitted. But if that parent or guardian would appreciate a trusted person's help in filling out the application, it is entirely at their discretion to choose who might be helpful to them. It's the same as if you're filling out your income taxes. Federal government has to keep that information private when it's submitted, but you can get assistance from whoever you trust to provide you assistance. So we understand that for a lot of families, the application is overwhelming. It's not long and complicated. If you're not stressed and overburdened and you are not intimidated by it, but that is not everybody's status.
NEXT> Hope Damon: So we think it's really valuable to create a community environment where people can be comfortable, with help being readily available from people that they already relate to and trust,

[R15253-31] Gary Merchant | New Hampshire State Representative for Sullivan District 6 (Claremont  | 2023-08-16
PREV> Hope Damon: be in this together. And as noted, there has been discussion about having an incentive. What we've most talked about is grocery store cards to assure that the incentive that encourages people to fill out the application sort of complements the effort of getting fed.
TEXT> So to wrap it up, what we're looking for from the board, and this is really up to the board at this point in time, we made the presentation, is to try to help as much as we can. We're here to help is my thoughts were creating a postcard that you can distribute within the community, within different agencies to get them on board. They allowed times, their relationships with parents. That may not be the same with the school. So we're trying to touch as many of those touchpoints as possible to get them involved. Every single agency we've spoken to has said yes. No one has said no. Miss Henry talked about a incentive. However you want to do that, I think it's important. I think last time you spoke, on August 2nd, there was a $100 lottery, something like that. You had 100 applications. I think the same thing has to be done here. But whatever you decide to do,  I would encourage you folks to put an ad in the paper to encourage people to build awareness. That's what we're trying to do. And then miscellaneous which one hotspots and food and so forth. It's about $4,000. But remember, if we get over one, one student gets over that magical number. That's $10,800. Now you may have to spend $404,000 to get that amount of money, but that's the first student. So that's what we have in Miss Henry.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: We do have look, on behalf of all the parents of students, thank you. And the data here is in the slides, if you want to go and look for

[R15253-56] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the August 16, 2023 meeting to o | 2023-08-16
PREV> Courtney Steele: Yeah.
TEXT> Right. I see the student behavior rubric. Is that correct?
NEXT> Courtney Steele: And it's a one page sheet that went over the details.

[R15253-82] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School administrator - self-identifies at segment 113 | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: There a program that is put into place during advisory that has specific topics that are.
TEXT> Yes, that's from our guidance counselors, and we work with them through advisory on that. But they're all social emotional topics. So that's separate from behavioral pieces, which would be more aligned with the student centers and the pieces that David does.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I would also like to see the, Claremont bullying policy from the school board included in both middle school and high school yearbooks, and have that be consistent. I know

[R15253-130] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member - identified by ELIMINATION, not by name | 2023-08-16
PREV> Courtney Steele: Okay. I was like I thought. It was in there. Okay.
TEXT> That's what my at the bottom of the page David. Irwin nice neat show. So okay so on page 16 mentioned student support centers. Are those that two new, positions or who runs these or what's the. We had. The I don't know.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: It started on last year.

[R15253-134] David Irwin | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School - self-identifies at segm | 2023-08-16
PREV> Bonnie Miles: You did.
TEXT> Yeah we had them last year.  So they were  a great specific,  classrooms dedicated to behavioral intervention supports. Yeah, that's actually what I meant to say, behavioral and academic supports.  And we had been working on developing  our protocols for intervening with students for both behavioral needs and academic needs. So we had  a dean in charge of each room with a campus aide, and we rotated  academic teachers through the room to both be another support person and for  academic interventions. So we're continuing to refine that program.  We're currently looking at having one for eighth grade and a combined six seven  just for,  staffing reasons. We're just, as you can see from the personnel page, we've got a lot of blanks. So we're  trying to fill the gaps as best we can. So those programs, we feel  and I think teachers would support this assertion that we saw a market decrease in disciplinary issues because we had these tier two interventions ready to go, as opposed to being reactive. The teachers and the deans could be proactive. So those are those are what those rooms are for. And we're continuing to  refine how we will utilize those rooms  as we move forward.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Okay. Okay.

[R15253-138] David Irwin | Assistant Principal, Claremont Middle School - self-identifies at segm | 2023-08-16
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah.
TEXT> I don't know if you remember, a few months ago I brought that stack of letters. It was kids expressing their appreciation for the fact that those programs exist.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah, it was really powerful. Yeah. That's right.

[R15253-180] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Keeping it his in school support.
TEXT> Yes I think it makes sense to call it in school support. I mean I get what you're saying that like they should feel badly about being pulled out of class. But if it is truly supposed to be supportive and not punitive, I mean, I think that if a student is acting out in class, there's a reason why. And I think that being supportive is helpful.
NEXT> David Irwin: All behavior is communication. Yeah. And so they're not able to use their words in that moment, which is why they are acting in that manner. So we're going to

[R15253-182] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-16
PREV> David Irwin: not able to use their words in that moment, which is why they are acting in that manner. So we're going to wrap services around them as a support. So we don't want it to be a consequence model, but a behavioral supportive intervention model.
TEXT> And I understand what you're saying and I would hope those behave those wrapping around of supports would happen whether a child is in class or out. I don't. Think. They do. And I know we're saying the same thing in that way.
NEXT> David Irwin: I appreciate your perspective.

[R15253-197] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-08-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Just I noted on the elementary school handbook on page 11,  subsection E, it was in the bullying policy. And number two. And then underneath that,  the letter D, there was a part about, the administration. May take. Where is it? Sorry.  The building principal and or his designee may take interim remedial measures to reduce the risk of further bullying, cyber bullying, retaliation, and or to provide assistance to the alleged victim while the investigation is pending. I think that should say, shall, a lot of the other letter points say shall like the privacy rights of all parties shall be maintained and the building principal or designation shall keep a written record. And I think that while an investigation is ongoing and students may be at risk of further harm or retaliation,  remediation shall take place, not May. If we could fix that. Yeah. Sorry. Yes.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I will absolutely. Take that back to the others. I believe that's right. From the book. The board policy. Okay. So, unfortunately, I can't change the language of an approved

[R15253-202] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-16
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> If I may, on page eight, where it's early dismissals and tardiness. Yep. One of the bullets. All students being dismissed must report to the school main office before leaving school grounds. A parent may sign out or must.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Must would be much more appropriate. Thank you. Thank you for that. There are actually. Well, I can say this. There are some parents that call and say, please have

[R15253-203] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School, answering for the shared SAU 6 e | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: If I may, on page eight, where it's early dismissals and tardiness. Yep. One of the bullets. All students being dismissed must report to the school main office before leaving school grounds. A parent may sign out or must.
TEXT> Must would be much more appropriate. Thank you. Thank you for that. There are actually. Well, I can say this. There are some parents that call and say, please have my child walk home. So it's actually not a must. Which could have been our thinking. To be honest,  we have some who, if they live in the in the,  near vicinity to the school and they're of the older nature for third, fourth, fifth grader, the parents have said to us, please just have them walk home on home. I maybe have a young child. I'm not coming to the school to pick them up. So at that point, they're verbally dismissing their child  and they're not signing them out. So it does happen.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: When appropriate. Maybe change the language.

[R15253-255] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the August 16, 2023 meeting to o | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So we can we can jump in at any time.
TEXT> This is second read for two policies.  The immunization of students policy. JLC LCB second read and adoption would be this evening. And also the head lice policy with j  l cc second reading adoption would occur with a vote. There was a lot of discussion about this last meeting and a number of recommendations. And thank you very much.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Thank you.

[R15253-265] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the August 16, 2023 meeting to o | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Second.
TEXT> Second. So we have a motion before us to adopt.  Per second read policy. JLCB the immunization of students and policy JLCC  head lice policy.  Any discussion? Any further discussion? No further discussion.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: I just want to say it's a fantastic rewrite of the head lice policy, and I feel really good about this one.

[R15253-290] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-16
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: I mean, I think we are called to help for the bullying issue, in particular in light of the issues that we've heard about in the schools. So the community knows that we're listening and we're acting on it. And I think that's really important.
TEXT> And for students to be successful, they need to be safe and.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: They need to be safe first.

[R15254-111] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board member - the chair recognis | 2023-08-17
PREV> Ben Nester: I know that they have a therapy assistant program. Yeah, we take an intern in their over the years. I think they have an A program. I don't know that they and they have an early childhood program, at least when I was teaching there.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if there's anything that we can do to maybe partner with that and encourage students that are looking for jobs in related fields to maybe do some hours for credit or for pay in order to  meet that need.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Candy. Just to.

[R15254-117] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; SAU 6 Board member - the chair recognise | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Did they actually.
TEXT> Have that program at the Newport Tech? Okay. The pair of behavioral program. So,  kids that come out of the Newport program will be a pair of two.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Be a pair.

[R15254-120] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair (elected 7/13/23 over Marjorie Erickson on a show of | 2023-08-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Two. There'll be a pair or two when they come out. So they have a three track program at the at the Newport Technical College. I mean, the Newport Vo tech.
TEXT> Do the students who are in Newport ever come back to work here as Paris? Do they do we go out there and recruit?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They just started at this. They just started.

[R15254-358] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (started 7/1/23) - Heather Whitney addre | 2023-08-17
PREV> Mary Henry: said, my mind is not 100% right now for health insurance, where you have to go in and you have to put your dependents in right now. We have to manually put in every person's dependent so that that storm for the IRS prints out.
TEXT> Right. Or, you know, to send out to staff. You think about that for every employee, there could be three, four people that you now have to enter in to get that form done and have it generate and update at all times. Because of course, when a kid drops off a parent's insurance or something like that, you have to then go in and update it again. It's as as Angela said, she spent days trying to do that, and now  it can be done in the onboarding process through this portal, which makes it easier.  They can view and update their direct deposit information.  There will be a, my task area. So we're HR  or the business office can put items that need to be completed, such as open enrollment for insurance. Any forms that are submitted that might need to be updated. The other thing is that the HR person can see who hasn't filled out their forms. What do they not have? It'll generate those for them. Instead of a manual spreadsheet you're going through trying to keep track of everything. Again, it'll push it out with a notification. They'll get emails.
NEXT> Mary Henry: There's two emails they have in the system. One is a personal one and one is ours. Because when they leave, they're still allowed to have that portal. But it

[R15286-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - joining by telephone; he apologises | 2023-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, yeah. Yeah. We can still hear you. You might not be able to hear us.
TEXT> So the.  So we had we had a great opening and I really appreciate  appreciate  all of all of the  help  particularly.  And I can't I apologize. I can't be with you today. I have a very serious  family  illness that that  we're working through.  But it has been a great opening. It was very warm today. We navigated those waters. Today, in terms of looking at at  the weather and hydrating  students. And  I know that Principal Pratt is there.  I've been speaking and connecting to everyone  today, but  a lot of  very positive things going on. And from my money, Principal Pratt gets the award for the the  amazing  hiring job.  That, and not to be outdone by Principal Romeo who  principal profit to science teachers coming in from out of state  and also Chris Romeo just got as a lead on two math teachers  right now that they've just been done a tremendous job. So, that's that's what I have to report. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Does anyone have any questions for Mike? Thank you. Mike.

[R15286-76] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: out of 80. And as of today, it's even higher. So all the sections of full, the lowest section is 18, the highest section is 20, and the maximum enrollment for the Ace classes is 20. So those sections were full for the first semester.
TEXT> And so we're looking forward to continue to grow the ASL. I've been in the class many times this week. The students are it's a very interactive class to really learning a lot about themselves and the world of ASL. The teacher is doing a fantastic job, and it's very impressed with the level of engagement that's going on in that classroom. Most of the classrooms now are are set up in a circular or an oval where teachers can. It's more open to  conversation with students. So that is for the American Sign Language class. The next question was what is your staff doing to get free and reduced lunch for eligible students? Sign up. Well, you know, we've been really preparing for this because we really want to do what we can to assist parents. So we did speak about it at the House meetings with students. We also posted it on the school website, the Facebook. We've emailed all parents.  And we also,  have  forms that will be using and during our open house that will be on September 28th from 6 to 730 at Stevens High School, the open house.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And we're really going to do what we can to make sure that students feel comfortable enough to fill out the forms will be there to assist them. Myself and

[R15286-88] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: the heat. I think it's at an unsafe level right now in the building. The air is very stagnant. It's muggy. The walls are actually, you know, sweating. So I think that's the the biggest, if we would say unexpected challenge, at least for me.
TEXT> Not, you know,  my second year here being in the building. I already talked about how the how the,  couches were being made for it's not coming out of our budget or anything like that. And,  you know, they're really working with us in regards to hopefully getting more schools on board in the state of New Hampshire. What two things do you see as barriers to improving academic achievement, and what can the board provide policy and resource wise, to rectify the deficiencies you identify? I think one of the things we want to continue to talk about, and I would ask the board support on, is really continue to  try to get an eight period scheduled day for the 2425 school year. I think that's that's really important.  Based on the current block schedule we have,  attendance and truancy are another high priority that we want to have because, you know, that that is a domino effect directly tied to student dropout. So that's another thing that, you know, we always would appreciate the community and the board support on in the past, phones have been a huge problem learning, causing classroom disruptions, instruction, lack of instruction, lack of social interactions,  harassment and bullying takes place if something happens in the school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You know, we had happened one time last couple of times last year. Kids will film it and posted on social media. It's not how we want Claremont or Stevens

[R15286-89] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: you know, we always would appreciate the community and the board support on in the past, phones have been a huge problem learning, causing classroom disruptions, instruction, lack of instruction, lack of social interactions, harassment and bullying takes place if something happens in the school.
TEXT> You know, we had happened one time last couple of times last year. Kids will film it and posted on social media. It's not how we want Claremont or Stevens High School to be viewed.  So like I said, we've already seen a huge difference in the school climate. As much as you can see in two days, you know,  two and a half days for the freshman,  our all high school is filled right now. No, right now we're still looking like any school,  some power educators and some special educators. And we still have one guidance counselor position to fill. But beyond that, I think we're in pretty good shape.  The guidance department we have now is strong. We hired a new guidance counselor, Haley Haley Berlin, and she's doing a great job,  along with,  Mimi Rhines. And so they they've done a great job of  picking it up. I think we had two last year, so it's not anything new to us, but we'll continue to look for that third counselor to get them in their, what are the plans to provide service instruction for students impacted by those vacancies if they still exist? Well, we weren't sure if we were going to be able to fill all these positions. The last two,  besides the council, we right up until I think.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Two weeks before school, we still had two science teachers and a council in position to fill. We're able to fill the counseling position, and it wasn't until probably a

[R15286-90] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: are the plans to provide service instruction for students impacted by those vacancies if they still exist? Well, we weren't sure if we were going to be able to fill all these positions. The last two, besides the council, we right up until I think.
TEXT> Two weeks before school, we still had two science teachers and a council in position to fill. We're able to fill the counseling position, and it wasn't until probably a week before school we were able to fill the two science teacher positions. But what you know, I tried to, you know, hope for the best, but plan for the worst kind of thing. So if we weren't able to fill those positions,  I spent a lot of time working with the River Valley Community College in regards to what could they do to help us out? Because we're really trying to,  work with the college and be lax and all those different areas.  But they've been fantastic in regards to saying, we can help you out. We can even  find a way to get ninth grade,  online instructional time through RVC, the sciences. And,  we built into the schedule, you know, if we needed to that upperclassmen could actually go to the college and take their classes and freshmen would be,  in the building with a person monitoring the online classes. So we were going to be able to still give students their education if we weren't able to fill those science positions.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And we were lucky enough that we, like I said, hoping for the best, but planning for the worst. We did. We used it, wasn't budgeted it. We had the

[R15286-92] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: level academics? Well, I mean, we have power. School runs about $100,000 of difference of scenarios in regards to maximize and school scheduling based on what we put in for, restraints in the system. The past years, there's been a lot of restraints put in.
TEXT> So the the system was not able to utilize,  the scheduling as that. We took out a lot of those restraints. So  there are always some students who must make a choice between two classes. Sometimes it can be  an honors English or music or an art in a theater. But no matter how you run a schedule, there are going to be times where you're just going to have to make a choice. And I think the block scheduling doesn't help. You know, period scheduling will help out in the future. But there's this one of the things we're doing to combat that problem, because we I'm really trying to still build the, the visual and the performing arts and the band and stuff is that we have ellos. But what I found out is that we don't really have,  the extended learning opportunities for independent study in some areas. So what we're trying to do is really take a look at  through the, putting an independent study in there because that's technically, you know, one of the foundations of extended learning opportunities is the independent study. So it's just a matter of meeting with department heads and seeing  what we can do for that. So kids are able to take their band and still take their English comp, kids are still able to take their theater  there  and not have to miss out on a chemistry class.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So we're in good shape with that. That's one of the things we're going to continue to talk about. What is the plan to move away from block schedule and

[R15286-94] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: it done. So if the board needs to make a decision, we're not saying okay, it's we can't make we can't do it because we don't have enough time to run a schedule like we had last year. So I'm starting to work on that.
TEXT> You know, that's that's you talk about what are the roadblocks, if any. I mean, that's that that's a roadblock. You know, scheduling is another easy thing I've been doing schedule probably 20 out of my 30 years. It's different at every school.  There are so many different schedules people have, and it's just trying to find the right one for your current situation and the students that you have. So  once I build a schedule, we'll run it and, and we'll, we'll see what happens. But  I'm excited about the possibility of going to I think what the you know, what it would look like would be 45 minute periods, eight periods 45 minutes long. We'll have two lunches. We still have the advisory. We still have four minutes of changing time. So,  you know, the the times will work out out the same. And so, you know, that's just the first one I'm looking at. Could the classes be longer. Yeah. They could, we could go up to I think right now with period schedule, we could go up to much as 58 minutes schedule. There are other things you have to look at.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You know, with the 2023 and 27, you know, graduation credits need to have. Is that, what is it going to look like? How many, you know, and this would

[R15286-102] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member - one of the three seated members not ot | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: Give you thank you very much, Candace.
TEXT> I like to. Mention the phones also because I didn't realize how much of an impact that would have, I just I hadn't realized that children going for lunch and and they were all quiet because they were on their phones, and the interaction is just opening their eyes. And I thought, I think it's a great idea. And hopefully other schools around here will do the same thing. So I thought that was great. I had a question for you about,  you know, the new classes coming in. That's great, but were there any classes that have to be dropped in the last couple of years? The reason that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: No, I mean, it changes every year. And off the top of my head, I know there are classes are not dropped, but they're they're dropped. Not because we don't

[R15286-103] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: do the same thing. So I thought that was great. I had a question for you about, you know, the new classes coming in. That's great, but were there any classes that have to be dropped in the last couple of years? The reason that.
TEXT> No, I mean, it changes every year. And off the top of my head, I know there are classes are not dropped, but they're they're dropped. Not because we don't have the teachers that dropped because,  in my experience, anything ten or less, you really don't run the class and it opens up something else. But that's usually the typical. But we didn't not offer any because of teaching. It was just because that's how the schedule kids were scheduled. And maybe a class that kids signed up for. You only had 5 or 9 in, so they didn't run.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, okay. That was just, I was just wondering if there was anything that needed to come back, but that's good to know. So, I think I'm going to leave

[R15286-106] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - presides over the opening: calls  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Two quick things. Get us a student rep for the board. If you could.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We can do that.

[R15286-123] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I just had a you're not done. Sorry. Are you doing any alignment with Claremont Middle School with the schedule that you're kind of working on already?
TEXT> And no, because I really just right now I'm just doing the initials getting,  like the the punch list down for what we need to do, but,  no, because because I think we did a lot of work last year with the middle school. And so my plan hasn't really changed too much from last year. Now, the big thing is just getting into a schedule to see what it looks like and run it to  load kids into it. On the non live side, which we can, but  yeah, it doesn't really change too much than what I proposed from last year. And  Frank at the middle school work well together in regards to  the scheduling piece. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And do you think that yonder would be willing to give a grant if we decided this should happen in the middle school?

[R15286-125] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: And do you think that yonder would be willing to give a grant if we decided this should happen in the middle school?
TEXT> I could ask them. I mean, the  like I said, with the first school in New Hampshire, the first school in New Hampshire to to have yonder  I know,  a lot of schools in Massachusetts do it. I think the entire state of Rhode Island does it, Connecticut does it. And so they're trying to get up in this area. So this is a big selling point. So they might but like I said, I have  I'll reach out to my person and I'll reach out to Frank and see if if he's interested or he can reach out to me and we'll see what they can do. Thank you. The tech center is doing it as well, you know, because students come up and they leave, they can unlock it. Pouches get on their phones and they come up here, they lock them back up. So next week I'll be dropping off the the magnetic disks that they use to unlock the phones. But the tech center is on board for that right now too. So it's just not the high school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: All right. Thank you very much.

[R15286-128] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member - one of the three seated members not ot | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: You're welcome.
TEXT> Heather. Oh. I just want to comment. I was like, walking back in time to 20 years ago when I was teaching. It was just a completely different atmosphere and something I. I guess I hadn't realized how much time students spent thinking about their phone. Even if the phone's not a right. Right. And so there was just a great deal more conversation and paying attention, which was really great to see. So good job.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R15286-146] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - the board's de facto roll-calle | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Moving on to our next discussion and action item, the alternative program update from Mr. Ben Nester, Director of Special Education.
TEXT> Sure. So the. Program we discussed several weeks back is operational.  We have we have one student starting this week. We, along with Chris and his team, have been meeting with parents the last couple of weeks and,  you know, working with them to understand the program and and what it can offer. And so I believe Chris is  thinking, is that within the next two weeks, the program will be, we'll have roughly seven students in it at that point. There's a there's a small group of students that were identified that the high school team is still attempting to locate. They haven't shown up to school yet. They are students that that would have been candidates for the program, at least, were on the list that president team put together. We have one student from out of district that's going to be transitioning back into the program. And, and then lastly, I'll just mention that, you know, Alex and I have been working closely together, and Alex has been very gracious and and helpful and helping Li Li Malloy get what she needs and, and set up the space if you if you're interested, after the board meeting, I could show you the space upstairs. It's very, very nicely done as far as the questions go.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I can certainly go through each item. Or if you had a chance to review ahead of time. I can answer questions or offer clarity on any of the, the

[R15299-127] David Ryan | Dr. David Ryan, outside facilitator hired by this board 8/17/23 at not | 2023-11-09
PREV> David Ryan: can also do it in paper form, because we have to keep in mind that not everybody has access to technology. So you can make it available in other ways, but something, something quick, something that doesn't have to take people a terribly long time.
TEXT> And the data can be  compiled pretty quickly, and you can determine whether or not you're on the on the right path. And that's an easy metric, an easy measurement that could be done  through the office. And then key result number three. The essay will actively involve school district employees and decision making processes that directly affect their work by soliciting their input and feedback on policies, development,  improvement, and so forth. And so this is an opportunity to kind of spread stakeholder responsibility, something that I'm pretty well convinced that  is is the goal of every superintendent and every central office always trying to gather as much stakeholder input as possible when key decisions are going to be made, particularly from people whose roles are responsibilities it most affects.  So if we're  talking about curriculum development, ensuring that not just the curriculum folks are  part of the conversation, but also,  grade level teachers have an opportunity to have their voice be heard at the table. In some instances, students have their voice heard at the table.  Any policy changes, anytime we go to the table to negotiate a contract, obviously getting the input from folks in the front line, whether it be administration or or teachers, to understand what the impact of any type of negotiation in a contract is going to have on their ability to manage a school.
NEXT> David Ryan: And so just broadening and this goes across the whole organization, broadening the opportunity for school district employees to participate at the table in, manageable, reasonable ways. So we're not

[R15311-60] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board, presiding in Chair Heather Whitney | 2023-09-20
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: I think there's a delay on the minutes. So I think we're postponing them.
TEXT> Citizens comments. Seeing none closed. Citizens comments and  student rep. Not yet. And, Mrs. Hawkins showed me a an article today, and I think that that's going to actually be a different title. I think it's called a student board member.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: It was an essay that was passed affect of January 1st. That said that student board members replaces the student representative or student liaison, or just merely providing a student

[R15311-61] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Citizens comments. Seeing none closed. Citizens comments and student rep. Not yet. And, Mrs. Hawkins showed me a an article today, and I think that that's going to actually be a different title. I think it's called a student board member.
TEXT> It was an  essay that was passed affect of January 1st. That said that student board members replaces the student representative or student liaison, or just merely providing a student report. And the purpose of that is so that, well, they're elected by the student body, which I think has happened in the past. It's a one year term, but it's also so that the student representative can give us a picture of the culture, climate and needs of the school, not just provide a report of what's happening around the district. So I thought that was important to share.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Moving on to the superintendent's report.

[R15311-65] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We should have that already, but I. I'll follow up with Chris Pratt. Usually they put it out to faculty and in students. I mentioned it to him in the last meeting.
TEXT> Okay. Did the,  did that section that Arlene just read get,  get referenced for the position so students know what they're signing on for?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You do that. That's a good. Thank you.

[R15311-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Ben Nester: I didn't know how much of this was going to be covered in nonpublic.
TEXT> And yeah, the  just the student student issue was. Yeah. I'm sorry. So so I do. Yeah. So,  we're still,  we're still short a  a teacher and a two teachers and a para.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Two teachers.

[R15311-91] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-09-20
PREV> Ben Nester: In a in a third classroom with a substitute.
TEXT> Okay. And it serves how many students currently.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Mid 60s.

[R15311-104] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I appreciate that. Thank you.
TEXT> All right.  Got that. The split classes at bluff was the other question. So I have the,  we have two experienced  teachers teaching those split class.  One, it's a split two and three class. Very senior  experienced teacher in their total of 18  students in that,  eight second graders. Ten.  Third graders. And the schedule for the fourth and fifth grade teacher, again, it's ten fourth graders, in that case, an eight fifth graders. And I thought that was a very clever and brilliant,  move by  Principal Baker to  suggest that meet with their team and come up with that again from the troops out.  They did that. They also are  requested being paid stipends to plan throughout the year. And also to compensate for a day, which was only I think it was about 6000 a teacher to have the ongoing PD to blend that, which I thought was incredibly fair price for the allocation we would have had basically  not. We still will keep those positions in the budget and talk about that, but it also gives a little bit of buffer there. Hiring.  We're also still looking for those teachers to restore it if we need to. And then,  you know,  transition out  in a per diem fashion. If we get the full model, it's it's a it was a very resourceful way to go about it. And I applaud the.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Special areas being covered with two different grade levels and, and their class time with that classroom.

[R15311-112] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Thank you for that. I didn't know that specificity. Right on the fly.
TEXT> I mean, I can't speak for bluff, but that's how Maple does it. Fourth and fifth grade students are given the option, so I would assume it would be the same.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I and I do know, particularly at the middle school with the really advantages the kids with the money that they have a bunch of new instruments weighting. Those

[R15311-138] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: like he can't replace it. It's tough. But you. We still have that for everyone. We still have all those subscriptions for the entire year. For anyone who wants either remediation or to go advance at their own pace. And we're still seeking the people.
TEXT> But so students can move into it even if they have a regular classroom teacher experience. I believe what I'm hearing.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, they aligned it.

[R15311-142] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Candace Crawford asks a 'follow up q | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah.
TEXT> Right. I mean, normally we wouldn't enroll a student who already had a classroom teacher, but they're already enrolled for the year, so they they can continue. That's nice. It's  a nice option.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yes, that is nice.

[R15311-145] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: chunks which might seem like it's revolutionary, but it's not. But it's it's he's been really determined to do that with the Excel stuff. And it's going a long way. So. Well, two different breeds of cat. I mean. Your. Your deal is. A course.
TEXT> In Odyssey. Where is, credit recovery basically. Well it is, but they they're tailoring it. And I think the biggest thing before is when we talk about alternative schools and things like that. Which I started with way back in the day. I won't even say one, but it's usually hard. We already had all the staffing. He had the program, but he he was able to get this the staff on PD really dedicating the time to to dig into that and really build them out. So and it's yeah, it's, it's going well. So it's not the be all and end all. Nothing will replace a teacher in front of kids but it's helping.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. A quick question of how about the parents. How do they feel about the children taking the courses? They feel like I want hands on first.

[R15311-147] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Candace Crawford asks a 'follow up q | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. A quick question of how about the parents. How do they feel about the children taking the courses? They feel like I want hands on first.
TEXT> You know? Sure. I mean, that would be the ideal, right? Yeah. But given the circumstance, they're okay. They could only have a half year of science content or a half year of math content, because that's all we had for staff. Yeah. What I've heard is positive feedback that people are happy with the creative solutions, that at least their students are going to get a full year of science and a full year of math instruction, even though it's not ideal with a teacher in the classroom.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and we still have successfully picked up people mid-year and stuff like that to transition in, we're still we're still not giving. Up, still trying. Yeah.

[R15311-181] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board, presiding in Chair Heather Whitney | 2023-09-20
PREV> Mary Henry: be on Cod, but those situations have been taken care of. The one local vendor that I'm aware of. By Monday morning, we were all set. And we can purchase. So it was it was a matter of having things match up in our end.
TEXT> So our CTE programs are  good to go as far as getting the materials they need to for programing for kids. Yep. Okay. Any other questions. For regarding that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Okay. Moving to number four. School board subcommittees. We'll start with Bonnie.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Capital improvements. We are going to see Stevens High. School next Wednesday afternoon. With Mr. Holt. At 230. If anyone. Would like to join us, usually he meets us at

[R15311-259] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: So just one one quick point. So so going down double taxing I mean that's the SRO is an example of that as well. So it's it's not an unprecedented concept that we're paying the city for for police officer, for it.
TEXT> It's not unprecedented. But yeah, so if  the SRO, particularly the yes. We absolutely. Are very happy with the SRO, the arrangement with the whole kit and caboodle.  But when it comes to we've had this discussion with the principals as to  even when we valued the social workers that we have and the work that they do, we valued the  ABA technicians and the things that we had. But particularly last year when it got tough at budget season, when we said, if you for the consistency of the turnover, what would what is the biggest value that we have in the school all the time in the s I SRO and I think, Mr.. Other board members brought this up last year.  An example of truancy officer officer is that a year round position, like pretty solid questions to ask and review.  And,  and some of some of those things because it, it might not make, it might not make sense to the it definitely makes sense. But when you think about policing, community policing and the like, there's no other greater concentration of kids out of people at risk is in the schools. But is that a community? Is that the you know, yeah, but it's a budget. We're paying the city. So that's another example. Yeah.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Question. Yeah.

[R15311-266] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board, presiding in Chair Heather Whitney | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: of a hosting session. So I think I, I don't know how the rest of the board feels, but I don't feel that I'm prepared to be part of the host that so I mean, look at all those pages. So I just want to.
TEXT> Just throw in my my $0.02 worth on this in the,  back in 2012, probably 10 or 12 years ago, we went to the original competency based. And this is this is Fred Bramante. It's the same, same group. And,  this was a directive that came from the state with very, very little, little support and guidance. And if Paul Kocher is listening, he he would, you know, he would. He'd be sitting here nodding and or Elaine Arbor or Middleton, the Goodwin of what we went through, it was literally hell. And it was because we had no real guidance from the state. And for those who where we could only grade,  on competencies, and we're left with unanswered questions. And how do we get kids to do homework if we can only grade their summit of assessments? What's the motivation? And so all of those trials and tribulations around the grading policy and homework and all of those countless hours we spent in this room getting hammered by the public, all of that, this is being brought to you by the same people that brought.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Well, I, I feel that that that they are trying to push this forward. And these regulations, these updates are not due until the end or until 2024. And yet

[R15311-280] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: it's very because they're updating at March 2024. So, you know, we've got to do it. I mean, if we put it off a month and and we get information from the administration about what this is about and what your recommendations would be. Weighed.
TEXT> In on this at all or no. So superintendent. Yeah. Superintendents Association has we've talked. That. Would be there's so each community is different each the the  but I can also when I was  deposed for the lawsuit, I had to do crazy crash course on all of this. And I know from  different communities who are also in the lawsuit, good cross-section of the state. There's some things that are were more valuable in perspective, and I can share some of that. But I think, we're not lacking for a lot within this district. But it is they are the minimum standards, you know, and this came up with the with the shift from  a foreign language. It was a good, good example of this of of what we used to. We always had three languages. Did you need three. Not necessarily. Was it good to have three. And and I'm just this is just an example. I'm not picking on foreign languages. But if you if you have those, if you have 3 or 4 teachers teaching something and you and Frank knows this from the scheduling days, if, if you can allocate and get more capacity within the schedule and the offerings of more kids who want it, you can you can drive that in a couple of ways by making it a requirement, by doing a few other things. That's all I'm getting at.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I, I'm aware that a neighboring community had a a panel discussion, and the panelists included their director of curriculum and instruction and different people who were knowledgeable about the

[R15311-314] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So they do. Yeah. Exactly. But something like it okay. So if I, if a child or a family moves from one state to another are the credits, will it be a problem transferring the credits like.
TEXT> It's going to be sometimes. But that's it doesn't have a lot to. So in Claremont and other places I've been to. So sometimes you get kids from other countries other. So the guidance will do the best  intake job that they can to align what the local expectations are for graduation. So they and usually the principal and guidance director make a judgment call okay. That's our you you need four baths. Do you have them in the like. And that's that's how that goes. What's a requirement.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Well I think what. Was like. What was tricky is it's the National center.

[R15336-157] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; NHSBA delegate - the chair names ' | 2023-10-04
PREV> Unidentified: I'll second.
TEXT> All those in favor. And again, just a reminder that these are resolutions that, that would be,  proposed down in Concord by the school Board Association. So. Number 12 again.  Monadnock School, Regional school district, school board and  support legislation clarifies the responsibility and accountability of parents and guardians who do not conduct themselves according to local laws or school policies. New Hampshire School Board Association will also support legislation that clarifies the protocols for school districts to follow in disciplining students and holding parents guardians accountable. And again, the School Board Association has offered some alternative language. And
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There's includes both the legislature and the Department of Ed those responsibilities. Yeah.

[R15336-187] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the 10/4/2023 meeting to order,  | 2023-10-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: and construction and. Renovation and looking into improving sustainability. Is. Actually kind. Of critical. Yes. I think it's just as important as resolution 15. Yeah. And like the funding. Yeah I. Know 14, especially. In light of like catastrophic weather changes that we've seen happening.
TEXT> Kids are being sent home early because of excessive. Heat or flooding.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Concerns.

[R15336-202] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; NHSBA delegate - the chair names ' | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: I oppose.
TEXT> The ayes. Have it. Again, Manchester. We propose advocating that Medicaid be used as a primary calculator for free and reduced lunch numbers. We've actually had this conversation for New Hampshire school districts advocating for the state to join the Medicaid direct Certification program. Advocate that Medicaid to schools be revised to allow greater flexibility and sign off by guidance counselors, reduce administrative burden on localities, and fund and increase per service fees. The school board association. And again, the rationale is that,  they like us. I think they're feeling an impact on  getting kids, kids to lose. It. Losing eligibility. So they they have proposed some alternative language.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They've separated it out into three separate. Yeah, points. Bullet points. The Medicaid direct certification, the MTS, and increase the per service fees.

[R15336-222] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; NHSBA delegate - the chair names ' | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So they're not making a recommendation.
TEXT> So the. Concord School Board recognized the importance of nutrition for supporting the development and learning potential. New Hampshire students were by the Concord School Board believes is critical to tackle childhood hunger and food insecurity.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: According to their bylaws, the proposed resolution that you just read may be considered and debated upon if two thirds majority of the delegates who were present vote to consider

[R15336-263] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the 10/4/2023 meeting to order,  | 2023-10-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> I think we need to do it more so because the earth is getting warmer and look how much time the students only miss the day. But next year could be warmer and they're going to miss more. So I think we should do something about that.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Another thing. I don't know if it's in these in these draft minutes, but another thing we discussed on kind of staying in the topic of like the environmental and

[R15336-273] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the 10/4/2023 meeting to order,  | 2023-10-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Exactly.
TEXT> He had this same type of problem with the with the middle school, with some of the windows. Some of them were open, which is a much smaller scale. But I'm wondering if we could do something like pick a student a week. If you check it every day, you'll get free lunch or something like that, I don't. And then, because feeding a child for five meals is a lot cheaper than heating the room.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Yeah, I'm sure I can come up with something. Something I. Don't. Know, but if anybody can. Yeah, I'm sure we can come up with some kind of system. But

[R15336-300] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; NHSBA delegate - the chair names ' | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: For me? I would like to see a unification of, discipline strategies and consequences, making sure that all the elementary schools are doing everything the same, alignment of disruptive behavior policies between, the middle school and the high school.
TEXT> So here's here's an interesting one. So how about if the Claremont School Board came up with the resolution for next year's School Board Association? And we were we would tell them to ask if they could look at how the redefinition of Chins petitions, which used to be, a fairly good tool for managing kids and was eviscerated, by the board. So I think that,  a good outcome for that committee would be a recommendation to the school Board Association asking the legislation to revisit chins petitions.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: I think there was. Thank you.

[R15336-303] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member - by elimination either Bonnie Miles or  | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: distressing to me was when we heard at one meeting how horribly the staff was being treated by parents and so including that. So there's a universal kind of way of handling inappropriate behavior towards staff and what steps will be taken. We're just curious.
TEXT> Was that more parents of like, the high school and middle school kids versus the little ones or across the board?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We heard it from principals. I mean, I think it was it was exit interviews. It was through exit interview.

[R15336-311] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the 10/4/2023 meeting to order,  | 2023-10-04
PREV> Unidentified: Really good.
TEXT> And Frank, to your point, I know that I had  seen this in in the continuing resolutions, but they're talking about the safe learning environment and how, to best, you know, kind of start grappling with children with disabilities, how to discipline students across the board and how they've already identified that that's a barrier. So I agree with you. I think us presenting a resolution would be even more supportive of their actions that are in place. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And you can get it to make sure it's specific enough.

[R15336-363] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6; de facto roll-caller while the d | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Founded like basically.
TEXT> I'm happy to share the presentation. It was about 50 slides. Yeah. And  it looked at students that attended pre-K and those that didn't. Right. So we looked at it in terms of attenders and non attenders. And was there a marked degree in their improvement for those that attended versus not.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Traditional versus spending especially.

[R15336-380] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; NHSBA delegate - the chair names ' | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: when I think about, you know, all the other things that, you know, that we didn't look at, all those other things were supposed to be improving academic outcomes. So this. There's this if we have an improved academic outcome, then those behaviors are better.
TEXT> And well, one of the some of the other targets are social emotional behavioral targets as well. In a really good program. Those are because you're you're also teaching little kids how to interact with each other and such. That's that's important to,  but you have to have ways of measuring improvement on that as well. So the models are out there because a lot of people are just have looked at Oklahoma and of all states, Oklahoma. But  but they have they have  a lot of very,  cultural and socioeconomic,  diverse populations in that state that,  Challenging are  very challenging and,  have not had success as adults and as students. So that's who they're targeting. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any any other business.?

[R15357-13] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: was I as you know, I'm on the board for the community college. River Valley in we had just an amazing meeting last Thursday talking about the opportunities that they have for students, particularly high school students. And, to to begin an accelerated our program.
TEXT> And basically they talked about the regional shortages. And I'll show you a few slides. These are actually, Denise Ruby who? The department head for the,  health science program there. She presented this. It was incredibly compelling. The number of nursing job postings right now,  292 that you see between  Alice Peck Valley and it's just  in Chester  Medical. This was staggering to me, this slide that if you go back to 2019 with a number of  job post postings comparing it to now said there were 600 then 1400 now, and I certainly don't have to mention that's it to Chair Whitney, who's in the biz, as they say. But what I really, and everyone on the advisory board was excited about this. So they have a path that they've articulated and they're working with the with the hospital here in Claremont  to have a nontraditional schedule as well for existing high school students. They're targeting now. So any student that has,  is, but doing well in science.  Basically, you can you can get involved. You can look at the LPN  and the other programs, line up the courses, be employed as your your maybe year round job, taking a few passing in the hospital  at a wage of, you know, over $20 an hour.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: As.

[R15357-15] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: As.
TEXT> A high school, as a high school student. Well, you're getting this credential and then you're off to an incredibly lucrative field. And some of the opportunities that that we know about with the traveling nurses and  in the like in other fields, that  even if you don't  successfully get the two year degree or the it's I think it's an 18 month program,  you, you you definitely can be employed in, in the field. And there they're shortages everywhere. So,  what I what was also very engaging about it is you don't have to be it's great if you already are in the,  you know, the nursing program or the health program that's in the center at Newport or the like, but you don't have to be. So that that's what I was just blown away. We have a meeting. I already met with Principal Pratt. It fits  well into what he's doing. He's been working hard with his team to expand the running start opportunities and have more people with the master's degree to get  through the articulation agreement that credit as they're taking the high school, which is wonderful. And when he comes in November for the next meeting, he's going to talk specifically to everything that's going on and where the program studies is also headed, so that you have that in your hands earlier, which has always been a goal. So, and that's it. So the other thing.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'm not sorry, I can't see from there. This was also the, the number of enrollments in anticipation of how the program is almost doubling over the next, few years.

[R15357-19] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: is part of a Claremont board goal. Measuring growth in student achievement and professional instructional practices in all the schools. Sure. So that it's really aligned with the specific goals that were developed at the retreat, especially about improving achievement, specifically with percentages in literacy.
TEXT> And and we can we can have these are the broader focus goals. I completely agree. We should have benchmarks market measure it all the way through. Yeah. These were more so and frankly for for me. And I had a mentor who always said if you're if you're going to do it. Hang on, hang a sign on it and get out there more. But we also I started our calendar of visitations. And then as I mentioned before, I wasn't here for a first part of  September with with my mother passing away. But the,  but now we have the visitation schedule out there walking around. It's also important.  Angela Vivian, our HR director, also has  times where she's available on their mike  in. Kat McLaughlin are already out there  supporting the PD, but it's  also  going to walk around  with,  with Ben, with Mary and kind of see the things in action. So as the board said before in the subcommittee and otherwise you why you order in, you know, the cases of paperclips every year. What do you really need? What's what's what are the teachers want. What are the what are the students need type of thing?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And I totally agree. And I understand the the result and the key result of having that visibility in the buildings. And I'm, I keep I'm referring back to the

[R15357-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Newport but are they are they chocolate blocks over there. Is that something.
TEXT> So even even all the students in the area high schools can avail themselves of this, you know. And any student can what I don't know for sure. And we didn't get into it that that  deeply. But we have a follow up meeting soon. But the is  how it applies to newly graduated students and how  how accessible it is for the broader community. But their specific target was and, Alfred Williams, the president of the college, has always said this, that their average age of their average student at the community college is about 25, 26 years old, where they they start out, they have a job, and then they they don't really find what they want to do. And  till they're out in the industry and then they they come in and they  get specific training for where they want to go. So what again, I, I think as it aligns particularly with the demographic of, of Claremont of  first generation college, in some cases  local community  in frankly getting into the world of work immediately. And school is just a,  a way to do that and then to continue that and meet with those successes. I think it's just a great opportunity.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I do I do want to just oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Oh.

[R15357-31] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: closest to all of those implementations over the last five years, even though we have a new business office team kind of keeping them in line with the historical and how we do that, that's going to be a lot to wrangle, as Frank says.
TEXT> And  and there's going to be a lot to that. And I certainly know that the board will expect  to see how we are good stewards of those  that type of sunsetting and the like. So, okay, that's that's the biggest focus that I have. And obviously the tuition agreements I put in there as examples, we need to make sure that we have a,  first of all, our articulation between the relationship between Claremont and Unity, which we know has not been on the books for many years now, but also that we make sure that we're competitive  with the  with the region in that we're still getting as many or more tuitions. Whereas  to be the anchor school  for Stevens High School, because we know, I mean, there used to be 75 more kids in that building with the same teaching staff. So basically, we know that tuition is coming in at 16, 17,000, really offset the taxpayer base. And it's and we have plenty of great things going on  where we have. And we should be proud of the product that we have at Stevens. So looking forward to that. So those specific things of  where I'm going to focus.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Yeah, I would be interested to see the any kind of like procedural plan or SOP that is written for the budgeting process so that it's so that we year

[R15357-44] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: have either all online or all in person. In working with blacks and talking with other schools, we just felt our students deserve more than to be put into a cafeteria, into a large room in front of a computer. Like most schools are doing.
TEXT> So our schedule allows itself and lends itself to having some flexibility, which is one of the great things about our schedule. And so we're able to do this.  We're still working on making sure everybody's signed up and we're getting parent input and buying and that. But  overall, again, in working with Vlachs, and when we met with them a number of times, they had reached out to us to say, we're pretty impressed with that. You come up, you came up with a schedule like this because most schools are literally sticking kids in large rooms with a proctor and headphones and saying, you know, this is your this is your science, this is your math.  So again, we're still advertising for it, but we have people that are working extremely hard. Courtney Steele, who I promise didn't have to say anything tonight. Has just been doing an amazing job with with reaching out to families and kids and, and has been meeting with all of the seventh graders on Vlachs individually to make sure that they're signed up and working with parents. It's a slow process, but she's doing a phenomenal job, and I think it's just worth saying so. I don't know if anyone has any questions about.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: You go into the other because I thank you for bringing that up. And thank you for coming after a soccer game.

[R15357-51] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff member handling the VLACS registrations  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: That's a good question. I think it's,
TEXT> So  obviously we were still trying to hire all the way up till when school started.  We have gotten kids signed up for this term. It has been a little bit of a process. I will say. The lady that I work with at black says we are one of 18 schools in this same boat, which makes me feel a little bit better. But so we went through a few hiccups, just, you know, first shot at all this,  we had some tech issues on our end. They had some tech issues on there in,  We've worked it out. Jeff has been phenomenal in helping me work out any of those hiccups that have come up.  At this point, I have registered all but one student, and that one is in the process with V lax. Because we've got a a family that doesn't have an email situation at home. And so we're working to get a proxy being that students guidance counselor. And so I'm just waiting on Black's approval for that. While they've been waiting to get on and going. We have been providing them with math and science work in the classrooms.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: Right now, the students that are not fully into their math, are working through Khan Academy work. In the science room, they've got a science textbook they're working from, the

[R15357-52] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff member handling the VLACS registrations  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: And so we're working to get a proxy being that students guidance counselor. And so I'm just waiting on Black's approval for that. While they've been waiting to get on and going. We have been providing them with math and science work in the classrooms.
TEXT> Right now, the students that are not fully into their math,  are working through Khan Academy work.  In the science room, they've got a science textbook they're working from,  the the registration process is kind of a multi-step piece. So from my end, I'm bringing students in,  going through the sign up page. So one of the hiccups was trying to instruct seventh graders to follow the instructions on the page on the multiple tabs of this registration process. And so a lot of them being seventh graders, I mean, normal brain development,  would be like, oh, I don't know. This answer is, so they'd put something random or they'd skip it.  And it cause on this side it would freeze their account because they weren't filling it out completely. So at that point, I said, stop. I'm going to pull you down to my office a few at a time. You can't go past this page until I say, okay, you're good to go.  And so at this point, we have  a set of students that have completed their registration, but we're waiting on the parents to approve their courses now and then. Blacks requires them to have a welcome meeting before they can access their course.  Because they are dealing with 18 schools in this situation.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: They worked really hard with us to get those welcome meetings in as quickly as possible. I tried to see if they would let us do one big, huge parent

[R15357-53] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff member handling the VLACS registrations  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: set of students that have completed their registration, but we're waiting on the parents to approve their courses now and then. Blacks requires them to have a welcome meeting before they can access their course. Because they are dealing with 18 schools in this situation.
TEXT> They worked really hard with us to get those welcome meetings in as quickly as possible. I tried to see if they would let us do one big, huge parent night and do it all at once, and they said no.  But I tried, so. But I will be starting for the spring semester now that I know what all is involved in it. I'll be starting that process probably right after Thanksgiving and pulling in any other students that that'll be in second term that are not already in the black system, and then getting everybody's courses requested. So they've got plenty of time to schedule those welcome meetings before the beginning of the second semester. So that on day one and second semester, they're good to go. I'll be. Ready to go. Yeah. And we put a lot of supports in place that other schools have not.  We have the students are  signed up to go to an enrichment block with the content area science and math teacher that we do have.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: The teacher of record. Is that the teacher of record or is that the. I'm sorry. That's okay. Is that considered the teacher of record for the kids on the

[R15357-59] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff member handling the VLACS registrations  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Okay.
TEXT> That's one support. They have to get assistance. They have their teacher that they can email. I'm working with them a little more this week on. One of the good practices is when you come into your classroom, probably the first thing you should do is check your email to see if you've gotten anything from your teacher. Because I've noticed this past week, couple of kids are like, I haven't heard back. I'm like, have you checked your email?  Oftentimes that's. A no. So working with them on those best practices is totally on board with us, allowing students to work together in that room when they're working on the same topic.  So reinforcing that with the students also on the board having a list of, you know, if you have a question and we can't answer it in this room and it's urgent or nobody in the room is on it, you can also just write it on the board. And that way the Miss Gardner, the math teacher, or Mr. Morale, the science teacher, they can get the information from that because there's been a little bit of a hiccup with kids getting used to. How do I let my enrichment teacher know what I need help with instead of them just trying to shoot in the dark?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: We created a mechanism. Right. Right. Questions? And then they know what they're walking. Into and address it.

[R15357-65] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff - the onset of her own answer about the  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: 20s maybe our assessment is part of the program.
TEXT> Yes. They they have what's called a DBA  and that is they have to have a live meeting with their teacher to do their assessments for each of their units  within their course. So,  a lot of the times I'm pulling students into my office so that they can do that meeting. So they're not in a classroom with people around. I've done that with some of the welcome meetings as well, to try to accommodate families so that if the only time available is during the day and to try to avoid mom or dad having to leave work for an our, you know, transporting back and forth and all that, they can sign on from their location. I can call the student into my office. They all get on at the same time and get that knocked out.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So and so. They know where they are in their. System.

[R15357-71] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff member handling the VLACS registrations  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: We take. The attendance. Correct.
TEXT> And I did work with Mr. Small this week to make sure that the teachers that are the staff that are in those rooms, that are having blacks working have access to classroom light source, which allows them to see what's going on on. Their. Student computers. Since you've got a room full of kids on computers, those staff are also walking the room to check and make sure students are on task.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And do they get homework through.

[R15357-80] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: lot of hurdles that, that come with that. I think it's more just continuously updating one another and meeting with one another. As we have things that have come up, we have a rubric that we follow for discipline that is very similar to theirs.
TEXT> But again, some of the developmentally age appropriate things might be might look a little different.  So, for instance, when you're talking about restorative practices in high school and you have to sit with a group of students that you have wronged, it's a little hard for ten and 11 year olds to kind of face that. So developmentally, we've kind of changed that up and teach them how to do that. And it might be one on one. It might start off with a letter, it might start off with an interview, those type of things, as opposed to maybe sitting in front of your colleagues because, again, they're ten and 11, 12 years old and it's a little different. So  but overall, I kind of just we kind of wrote down some of the things that you can see there. What in any difficulties that we might have in sort of some of the strategies that we have for that first question. All right.  Looking at the cell phone policy, the cell phone policy. So,  to start off and I've talked with Mr. Pratt and his team and we talked about,  you know, the advantages and  the differences that they're seeing to that.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So what I did and what Miss Lydia had put together for you, along with Andrew, is just taking a look at our cell phones sort of violations. And when

[R15357-82] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: we don't want the cell phone to come into the school again. And if it needs to, it must stay in the office or with a dean or an administrator. When you walk in and then you get it at the end of the day.
TEXT> So we kind of just broke down where our cell phone violations are running, and you can kind of see how many students,  for the eighth grade, it's one parent requests that have to turn them in, that have gotten that far, that as soon as they walk in, they have to surrender their phone to somebody.  At the eighth grade, it's it looks it's four,  and again at the sixth and seventh grade, it's five. So I was just looking to give you an overall picture of what we're facing with cell phones. We're not opposed to taking a look at,  what the high school is doing. I think for us, the the question is always, we're making sure that we are teaching appropriate  behavior when using electronics, and just taking them away and locking up doesn't necessarily provide that lesson. So we want to make sure that if that is the path that we're taking and again, not against it,  that there is some education about it as well. I just talked about my twins that are 12. They do not have cell phones  because they are not going to be responsible enough to handle,  what comes with that.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And so it's something that we continuously talk about and I've talked about with Mr. Tempesta and Mr. Kosky, if that's the direction that we need to go, then we're

[R15357-91] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: How did that. How did you get that?
TEXT> So that was through a grant.  That was last year. We in in my,  continuously like we need reading.  We were talking about that. And I know that some of the other schools or one of the elementary schools may have had it. And so last year there was a grant that was put forward, and  it's the size of a vending machine. It's got the CMS Eagles on it. It lights up and it's got all books and stuff. And  we're actually going to petition the students to see what sort of books they would like to see in there.  We did an initial sort of right. These are the, the titles that we like. But,  you know, we want to have students look in there and see something they want. So that's where we're going to start doing advisory, start petitioning them, have them fill it in, and then,  set up a variety of ways that they can earn those tokens. So it's not just specific to student of the month, but, you know,  talk about like caught your reading or improvement and other things like that, like just promoting the great things that are happening.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: The first day it was there, I was on lunch duty. And there was a lot of head scratching kids sitting there trying to figure out. And again, they were

[R15357-92] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: a variety of ways that they can earn those tokens. So it's not just specific to student of the month, but, you know, talk about like caught your reading or improvement and other things like that, like just promoting the great things that are happening.
TEXT> The first day it was there, I was on lunch duty.  And there was a lot of head scratching kids sitting there trying to figure out. And again, they were like, they thought there was candy in there.  But once that went through there, I students continued to stop by and read what was in there. How do you get a coin again? Like what does it do those type of things.  And when you're. That's just a great feeling. It's just great to see. Right. And so,  we're going to continue to promote those type of things. Questions.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R15357-110] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - the chair asks for a motion 'Mr.  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: I. Come by and see it.
TEXT> Yeah, I think it's great. I mentioned it at a meeting maybe a year or so. I saw it on channel nine or something that schools are putting those in.  So as I'm going recycling, I'm taking crates of books that my that have been kicking around the house for, for 20 years.  Since my kids are long since not middle schoolers anymore. So how do you get your books?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So meaning, like, how do we decide on the title?

[R15357-115] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - the chair asks for a motion 'Mr.  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: of the grant and getting that gave us a small funding for an initial startup. So what we did is we contacted the Ela department. I think we first talked. About her last year. Yeah. Helped us with getting that grant to do the finance.
TEXT> So if I'm a if I'm a student in a, I  win a book. And then I read the book and I bring it back, and I get a token for bringing my book back.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: That's a very good question.

[R15357-117] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff - a substantive turn in the book-vending | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: That's a very good question.
TEXT> Well, I will tell you that I had a student that came into had not heard the token, sought me out and said, so if I get a book out of the book vending machine and I don't like it, can I change it?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So we had some of those.

[R15357-122] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: My question is do you take donations. That's.
TEXT> Yeah. No, I see you're saying what I, what I probably would say is we would always be open to donations  because not only do we have the book vending machine, but outside the library has  always has a roll of books of sort of like take one, leave one type of thing. And I always see students kind of, you know, some of them not accessing the library, but I do see them looking to see if there's something that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So all the viewers that are watching here.

[R15357-128] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh, yeah. Absolutely. You don't have to sell me on the.
TEXT> Was great. We started also a summer reading program that we're going to for next year that we ordered books. We. Well we'd love to do is,  Get the books in the hands of students and then have teachers come back during the summer. Kind of do a bagels and books where they come in and have a small group and sit around and even invite families. And just so that we can talk about the books  that they have. So we'll be doing that and working on that this year for the summer that's coming up. We have the books that we want.  It's just sort of getting that in line.  And getting faculty and staff I know I like a whole bunch of people  don't would say they donate their time to come back in and just sit with a kid and do some reading. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Crawford.

[R15357-132] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: we will, celebrate that at our all school meeting because we do all school meetings on Fridays, and then once a month we do the student of the month, we will give the kids their cards and announce and say, hey, caught you being good.
TEXT> It goes into a drawing and we will pick a couple of names each month, just as a random thing that they will also get a token. We've also I've also asked grade levels to kind of look for, improvement. So like,  great job this week type thing or you really did a  you came in and you did some studying, like, let's make sure we reward those students and those achievements so that we can move towards some sort of understanding of how to get a token. So it's not just student of the month.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: I would like to yell a department last year went through and selected what books to put in. You did make sure there were books for all levels of readers

[R15357-149] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. Just a quick question. How many students have actually used the vending machine and gotten books?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So we just got it operational for the first student of the month. So if just by a quick calculation, 12 to 15 would be within the first month, I'd

[R15357-150] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. Just a quick question. How many students have actually used the vending machine and gotten books?
TEXT> So we just got it operational for the first student of the month. So  if just by a quick calculation, 12 to 15 would be within the first month, I'd like to open that and to the point of how we're going to promote,  you know, other ways to get it. So I'm looking that each month that we would have somewhere,  I would say to 20 kids a month being able to access and get callings and do that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. I was thinking you were going to say when you when you said you use these court, you'd be in good slips that like get five of them and

[R15357-152] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. I was thinking you were going to say when you when you said you use these court, you'd be in good slips that like get five of them and you'd get a token or something. That's what I thought you were going to say.
TEXT> Yeah. So what's something online we haven't like, ironed out specifically. But the question was asked because we recognized the same thing. Like, you know, students are looking at it and asking to get books. Like, we need to figure that out, right? We need to get on that and figure out how we're going to get it to them.  So that's why we had asked the question in one of the meetings this week. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just have one more question. Unless anybody else has a question. My question is about the deans and the academic centers or the student support centers. I know this

[R15357-158] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: where they can get some small group instruction or some one on one work in that student center. So attendance is up when we look overall at the referrals and what those referrals are, right. Referrals of skipping class linked to class, those are down.
TEXT> So we don't have all because students are getting into classes. You're still going to have some of the other behaviors that we have referrals. So those are three major data points that we're looking at as the impact to what is the impacts that they're having on our academics.  And then overall looking at grades,  as well. Right. Looking at some of those benchmarks and grades as you, as you talked about. So they're still new, right? It's a year and a half into it or a year point.  2 or 3 months.  But those are things that we're looking at now to kind of see what's the impact of what we're doing.  But I love when I see that our attendance is down. Meaning that there are more kids in school and our and our ineligibility lists are down to 1 or 2 students,  which is phenomenal for a school of 375 kids playing an, you know, sports is one of our biggest. And that goes for drama like some of the co-curricular.  So yeah, I feel that that those are some of the data points that we're looking at for what the student centers are having as an impact.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. And thank you all again for coming in and all the good work that. You're doing.

[R15357-178] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - presents the alternative-progra | 2023-10-18
PREV> Mary Henry: Okay.
TEXT> So we have six potential alternative locations to the alternative program. I just run through them quickly. You had some several conversations with RVC. They certainly rent out classrooms to nonprofits and other organizations and are are interested in some kind of a partnership. So that's a viable option. We looked at the Claremont Savings Bank. A while back. They have a large space to rent. And  we haven't investigated that one further. We don't know that that one would be the most appropriate option. The bank's likelihood of allowing students to cycle in and out of their front doors probably be a no, but we haven't talked to them directly. And the and the space is, is pretty large and annual cost of about $25,000 to rent that space. We've also been in contact with the building that houses the new charter school in town. And currently the building is maxed out in terms of space. That was that was something that I was hopeful for. But again, we've got a hard know on that on that location. Did some did some research. Mr. Kosky did some research and found two storefronts on Pleasant Street.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Both right around 1000 to 3300ft². With a monthly lease of around 13 to $1400 for those for those storefronts. Those would be Adur or likely Ada compliant already, given

[R15357-196] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Ben Nester: has certainly had a very robust conversation today. And he presented on on something on it. So they haven't they haven't put anything in writing, but they're interested in partnership and we'll leave it at that. Okay. If that if you understand what I'm saying.
TEXT> They're also renovating right now. So it's  it's tough right now. And then we can see what they have if they have additional space after. But we were more, we have to have a program design. We have to have I, I like in my experience with this too, I had several alternative programs. I agree, I like a  it depends on the program that you're running. So it's an integrated business type of thing downtown, something practical for kids who and they can see the,  you know, an absolute purpose to why they're in school type of thing. And,  with, you know, running a cafe or something like that, I think that might be a better model.  But I also like in  the thing that I leave it open to, and we talked about this last year is if we do get some type of advanced academy or if we're trying to get kids  back and forth. And we've had several meetings  with with Alfred and I went over there with Chris and with Mike this year as well, to see if we can share more and have the college come to us. And if we get 6 or 8 kids in a class, we can we can start having more electives even at different times that are over here. So that's what we were talking about. So but not the same. I was population.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anecdotally I like I like the storefront idea personally. For two reasons. One, we we take a storefront.

[R15357-368] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - the chair asks for a motion 'Mr.  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Wants to vote.
TEXT> Okay. Okay. So would you like me to read it? Yes. Okay, so the Claremont School Board believes that career and technical education is an essential component of its Stevens High School education. Whereas CTE students learn skills that are essential to the Claremont workforce, whereas CTE students acquire industry credential credentials and certification certifications that make graduates more employable. Whereas CTE students earn college credits through dual enrollment and articulation agreements. Whereas CTE students graduated a higher rate than their peers not enrolled in the CTE programs. CTE students see the relevance of their learning experience and therefore are more engaged in their learning. Whereas the Claremont business community fully supports a robust CTE program at Stevens High School, and indeed depends on a skilled workforce for continued business growth. Therefore, the Claremont School Board gives its full support to the continued growth of the River Valley Technical Center and wholeheartedly endorses the formal data driven process to evaluate existing offerings and to add new programs as recommended, that fit the needs of Claremont students in the community.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You're here.

[R15357-386] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - the chair asks for a motion 'Mr.  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.
TEXT> So the pushback on what you just said, Heather, would be as new programs as recommended that fit the needs of Claremont students in the community. So to me, that that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is the budget component.

[R15357-413] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - the chair asks for a motion 'Mr.  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Friction maybe today.
TEXT> And different people that were there.  Representing their boards.  All of the articles that we the, the, the,  the body went the same way as we did on all but one. And that was the sustainability resolution from Manchester.  Very close vote. However, it was  it was 20, I believe it was 22 for  four abstentions and 25 against. So it was  very, very close and  but it, it, it bears some, some, some thinking about  one that was  I contacted Jen Gallagher about it  as I was sitting there listening to the discussion around the,  I believe it was Monadnock was talking about unruly students and parents in school in such. And there was a resolution around that. It,  I was thinking of her committee, the, the  disruptive students, and I sent her some of the information on that, that I was hearing from the group. And I actually talked to after about what some of her goals are  and around maybe possibly bringing a resolution next year regarding chins, petitions and things like that. So he's I did talk to him. He I think his Jerry sullen maybe in his offices that that does that is Eller. So I  I talked to him down there and I think if we talked to him and Adnoc, we might be able to do something with them and bring something else forward as a resolution next year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So the joint resolution.

[R15357-425] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: We were talking about.
TEXT> We have a tuition agreement with them and part of that agreement, we meet regularly  with them. Their agreement is up soon. So it was a three year agreement. So we decide if we want to go forward with them. I recommend strongly to do we have 3 or 4 kids. Doesn't break the bank. We can't turn any tuition away. Goshen only they have 85 kids in the town and they don't have any schools. So they set, they send everyone.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'm sorry. December 18th.

[R15385-13] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - gives the superintendent's report at segments  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So perfect. Greatly appreciated. Thank you. It's valuable information. Yes. Yeah. Thank you. Presented. Is there any questions from the board for our student reps? Seeing none, we'll move on to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. So what I have I have two items. One is  we had visitors from the New Hampshire Department of Education led by Joey Nichols, come out on the 24th and  for a teaching visit, they visited all of the  currently participated schools. The middle school block of Maple. They were led around by  teams of student guides into the classrooms. And they looked at the work that was going on. This is part of the Early Educators Education grant that Mr. Cosby and his  team put together with the SR  three money. And it was it was very successful. I had the chance to have  lunch with the visiting team at bluff, along with the principal, and  had an amazing tour  guide  by by  fourth and fifth graders  who knew they they took them all around. It was it was wonderful. In the  representatives  really spoke,  were really impressed with  how well the students knew the school  and  it was wonderful. So  I also have another,  bit of good news to report today. We had a  follow up meeting today.  It's part of,   Principal Pratt's  initiative  with  we followed up with members of the River Valley Community College.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As I presented last time about the nursing program and the opportunities to to get both running start credit and also school to work initiatives. And we just an amazing

[R15385-28] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: the report, it's, what it set up for is that visited? Come in. They scanned the license and automatically what happens is it goes through identikit and they cross-reference it for anyone who may have be sexual offenders or, custody issues or anything like that.
TEXT> It's just another level of safety.  I was talking to Jeff earlier.  As of, like last week, there's still some  areas that we want to check on before we go live with it. So we want to make sure we're dotting our eyes and crossing our t's before we put that out there. For it's it's especially for people who come from like out of state. The process for checking IDs there is different than it is here.  But hopefully, you know, we'll be able to get that up and going.  All the equipment set up, we're ready to go. We just want to make sure that we're we're where we need to be in regards to  cross state.  Areas with checking licenses and people's  offenses and stuff like that. Like I said, it's all set up in the lobby. We just we just need to wait a little longer. Recognition cards, as you know, we have them set up for you for  teachers to recognize students when they're doing something good.  And this year, we added that now students can recognize teachers when the, when they're doing something good.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So on the daily basis, at the beginning of the day, we read off the students names for being recognized for a positive contribution. They had this high school, and

[R15385-29] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: to wait a little longer. Recognition cards, as you know, we have them set up for you for teachers to recognize students when they're doing something good. And this year, we added that now students can recognize teachers when the, when they're doing something good.
TEXT> So on the daily basis,  at the beginning of the day, we read off the students names for being  recognized for a positive contribution. They had this high school, and at the end of the day, we announced the teachers who have been recognized by the students,  and we keep track of all that.  It's just nice to see on the daily announcements, scrolling through the TVs, you know, the  the teachers one keeps growing, which we like to see. And, you know, teachers really appreciate it. They like to be  shown that they appreciate and acknowledge by their teachers, just like students like it from their teachers. So,  we added that to the cabinet recognitions.  It's been a busy month with, community involvement. We continue to try to involve the community whenever we can.  Last week on October 17th, we had the viewing of screen AJR.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I put this in office in their in their principles report, and it was all about growing up in the digital age and what students are faced with, where many

[R15385-30] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: students like it from their teachers. So, we added that to the cabinet recognitions. It's been a busy month with, community involvement. We continue to try to involve the community whenever we can. Last week on October 17th, we had the viewing of screen AJR.
TEXT> I put this in office in their in their principles report, and it was all about  growing up in the digital age and what students are faced with, where many of us have were not faced with  in the struggles and the challenges that they face on a daily basis. With that,  and them, after we had the viewing,  the community and was able to interact with the panel, which Kylie was a part of, and ask questions about,  you know, just various things that we saw in the, in the movie or, you know, current, you know, things going on at Stevens High School. So it was a very productive knife. We continue we want to continue to have more and increase the community  participation in these nights. I think it's important.  So we're going to look to the future to have more of these community events at the high school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: As far as faculty and staff updates, what we've we've started doing is because, you know, we're really working on restorative practices, not just for the students, but for the

[R15385-37] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: given to them within what they show on their diagnostic. And keep in mind, this is all outside their regular classrooms. And so the big numbers are that you see, is, like I said, they have 100, 722 hours additional time spent outside of classroom.
TEXT> And most of this is an l a in math and then skills mastered. We have 3115 skills mastered since the beginning of the year, 3442 skills that they're proficient. And currently we have 5213 skills that have been practiced on a regular basis. So our goal was to answer 30 questions a day. And we're up to, you know, depending on the day of the week, we're pushing at the at the max. They're 80 questions a day. So  I excel is great.  Teachers can print out certificates for their class and put them out on the board once in a while,  once a month. I kind of push out a challenge to students in regards to,  it shows, you know, the students who are working the most in Excel. They have leaderboards and stuff like that. So we're able to see who spend the most time in Excel and who's not. For the most part, majority of students are doing a great job keeping on top of this, because keep in mind, this is an additional to their their their regular classwork. But the students who aren't as an administration, we monitor I monitor that and I go in and look and say, okay, we have these students who aren't really doing much in Excel at all.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So therefore they're learning they could be falling further and further in that class. So for those students, what we do is that we identify those students. We take those

[R15385-44] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - she moves the pa | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yep. By their, by their peers.
TEXT> Tell me a little bit more about the Excel. Do all students, all students participate in this? Yes.  And it's a program that we've purchased.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yep. It was grant funded. Okay.

[R15385-47] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah. And and so, who develops the questions that are asked as part of the testing?
TEXT> The system does it automatically. And so it's kind of like any other tests that kids take. Now if they do well the questions continue to get hotter. They don't. They get. But then.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Who develops the questions.

[R15385-58] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Could you elaborate more about. The identikit?
TEXT> Yeah. The identical is for. It's not for students. It's for visitors who come in. So when it's all set up and going, a visitor will come in. There's a touch screen there. They say check in, they scan their license, it automatically goes to the system, checks them for any security or  legalities that they might have. And then once it runs the system,  it'll print a pass with their picture on it. And they stick it on and they're good to go. And on the way out, they check out.  Two options for checking out.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What does it scan for? Like arrests.

[R15385-60] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: What does it scan for? Like arrests.
TEXT> It's it's just so we can identify in keeping kids safe in the building, because you never know who's coming into the building. It's just another level of safety for visitors coming in who may not be the safest people coming into the building. Awesome.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: This I agree. This is excellent. Thank you very much. You're welcome. I have a question about this Excel, which I think is fabulous. The extended learning and the building

[R15385-64] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's extra different classes.
TEXT> It's in addition to but it's also designed to support what's going on in the classroom. For instance, teachers, they, you know, the English and math teachers and science and the Spanish, they can look what's going on in the classroom if they have to. They can click on that students profile and say, I notice this student is struggling in this area and click and drag additional work of what they're currently doing on and add that to their profile. And in some cases, we have students who, for instance,  taken  PSAT teachers can assign students to go in there and based on what they would like for a score, they take a quick diagnostic and it creates almost like an exam for them, a practice exam for them based on their current skill set. So they do well on that. Then they go in, they click on the next level and it will give them,  the work that they need to get like a 800 to a 950. So it challenges to keep growing within that. And then we also have the SAT, we have the state standardized tests. It's all tied in there. We can assign if we need to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's a really nice solid program. Again. And from my own understanding, the extended student learning, if I'm a student and I'm taking a science class, hypothetically, chemistry, which I

[R15385-66] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: chemistry, which I did not do well on, is the extended learning. If I'm doing well in the class, then I would be more engaged in the student extended learning, and then would I get like a deeper level of chemistry or. Yes, okay, that.
TEXT> Was for English and math. Yes. For for Excel  in science, it only goes up to eighth grade. But we have a lot of students who aren't there yet right on that. So we're trying to get them up to where they need to be for grade level. But for the math, Spanish and Ela, you're absolutely correct.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. That's been.

[R15385-76] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: agenda item will be a little bit more comprehensive and talk about globally, not just the summer program. So it actually works out well. Thanks, Mike. Sure. Our next agenda item is a preschool programs and s and SEL goals presentation by Mr. Ben Nestor.
TEXT> Yes, director. Attention to the recommendations document. And the. Fact that. The front. For these. And then we can follow up with any any discussion of so the the. Administrative teams recommendation. And this includes. Recommendations for building principles to in particular very interested in early childhood programing and has come from the the that's saying things. Well so we have  five. Main recommendations as we plan for next year.  We want to contract and we recommend contracting with a qualified agency or an individual. To conduct an independent study of the early childhood program to help guide us in the development and the improvement of the program.  The second thing we like to do is investigate, with the help of a of a consultant, a, you know, a comprehensive,  research based early childhood curriculum and assessment and instructional package, something that would include training for personnel as well. We'd like to see that as part of that package so that there's actually direct face to face training, much, much like the training that we receive when we adopt another curriculum. You know, for students in third grade, first.  We also would like to consider relocating the early childhood program to the elementary schools or, or target one school in particular, and embed it there, which is standard practice for, for preschools.
NEXT> Ben Nester: It's a little it is a typical that the preschool is in a standalone environment. And I did, I think, address that in some of the responses I gave that,

[R15385-77] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: we adopt another curriculum. You know, for students in third grade, first. We also would like to consider relocating the early childhood program to the elementary schools or, or target one school in particular, and embed it there, which is standard practice for, for preschools.
TEXT> It's a little it is a typical that the preschool is in a standalone environment. And I did, I think, address that in some of the responses I gave that, that when, when a program is in a standalone environment like that, it is somewhat oversight prohibitive. So the the fourth item we would we do recommend that we stick with the early childhood model. That's the model where you have 50% special ed students and 50% typically developing students, versus a special ed only or self-contained model.  There's an interesting fact with that to the while the state while the Department of editor will approve self-contained programs at the pre-K level.  If a district has a self-contained program at the preschool pre-K level, it counts as a mark against you in the the annual audits that that do that, that paints a very clear picture of the departments, you know, respective on the matter, you know,  and then and then lastly, another thing that's not typical of our pre-K is that we don't charge a fee, even a nominal fee for
NEXT> Ben Nester: regular ed students. So that's another thing that we'd recommend exploring and implementing for the 2425 school year. So that's the long and the short of it in terms of

[R15385-78] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: that do that, that paints a very clear picture of the departments, you know, respective on the matter, you know, and then and then lastly, another thing that's not typical of our pre-K is that we don't charge a fee, even a nominal fee for
TEXT> regular ed students. So that's another thing that we'd recommend exploring and implementing for the 2425 school year. So  that's the long and the short of it in terms of what we'd like to do. And again, I apologize for the,  large stack of information that's in your packets, but the, the, the reason that we included all that in there, after talking with Heather and Mike, was that there's a lot of new board members that didn't receive information or presentations that have been presented by the year. So we wanted to offer that to you. But certainly I realized it was fairly overwhelming. In terms of just the volume. So.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Can I make you recommendations for the punch list? The first being, a process for admission to the program. So how do you know? Do we take everybody? Do we?

[R15385-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - gives the superintendent's report at segments  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: was that there's a lot of new board members that didn't receive information or presentations that have been presented by the year. So we wanted to offer that to you. But certainly I realized it was fairly overwhelming. In terms of just the volume. So.
TEXT> Can I make you recommendations for the punch list? The first being,  a process for admission to the program. So how do you know? Do we take everybody? Do we? Is there. How do kids get accepted there? The second would be  a goal to apply for grants. Because I know there. And that was stealing your. It was your question. There are grants out there. And, so I think we should be applying for those to take the burden off the taxpayers. Great. Thank you. Grant.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I did look into the grant, Heather, that you mentioned. And it. Looks like it's a grant that, funds planning and structuring of pre-K. It's not a grant that allows

[R15385-82] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Could you repeat that? I'm sorry.
TEXT> I'm sorry.  We I did look into the grant that Heather mentioned in one of her questions, and it seems like it's geared toward helping early childhood centers program and plan versus funding positions.  You know, to work directly with kids. It's more like a consultant type model, I believe.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Well, would that be an appropriate grant for your, The second bullet about possibly having a consultant come in? That would.

[R15385-93] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: We. Will I'm meeting with pre-K staff on Friday, actually to do some some sort of big planning. And so that will be in everyone's hands on Friday.
TEXT> The question in moving the or the idea of relocating to the elementary schools. And then I mentioned this.  Yes. The supervision would have to be from a coordinator outside the building because principal certification is K to 12. They're not certified to supervise a pre-K program so that before we move kids, we need to make sure that I would think I would hope that we would have the standards in place. We would have the assessments in place, we would have a coordinator in place, the teachers would be ready, and having them not move until that's that's solid.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Okay, I see.

[R15385-111] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: as it's November, right. It's just blinking. It's here. So we're we're already having those conversations. We know that we have to have a, a framework in a roadmap ready before Thanksgiving for everything. Yeah. So on our side. So that's that's where we are.
TEXT> Had the refinement. And in relation to the to the pre-K program, the professional development that will be in place for the staff that's there as a plan. And as, as you said, a roadmap I think is really and I hear you, that's what you're planning on doing. Are the students coming in four days a week or three days a week at this point?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. So the standard structure, which is sort of typical around the state is a is a four day, half day, half day session. Right.

[R15385-116] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So right now it's three. If I make 3.5, let's say, because you have that flipping. Session and then you're going to go back to the four day.
TEXT> Yeah. So all so all three year old students attend in the morning Monday through Thursday. And then the four year old students will attend in the afternoon Monday through Thursday. That's where we're going to go to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And you're going to implement that way.

[R15385-125] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: or, or really think about a model where we are pushing outside services, do we lose the chance that some or do we have the chance that some of our students will not be able to get those services because of transportation issues from families.
TEXT> If we. So what that normally looks like is students that attend Head Start in town, you know, we can send staff to Head Start to provide the special ed services. So in those cases, bussing is usually, you know, we don't usually offer bussing or need to because the families are already getting the child to head start. Yeah. And just just a comment on that too is we were pushing in pre-COVID to to Head Start a bit. And then Covid shut that down for two, two and a half years or so. And so we're we're starting to do that again. But it's been a very slow, slow roll. We we have not we have not really pushed into head Start in the way that we used to or the way that I understand that we used to, you know, prior to me coming on board, we're going.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: To for students who whose families have medical coverage and can get services outside of our school environment, would we lose some students getting those services because of a lack

[R15385-126] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: been a very slow, slow roll. We we have not we have not really pushed into head Start in the way that we used to or the way that I understand that we used to, you know, prior to me coming on board, we're going.
TEXT> To for students who whose families have medical coverage and can get services outside of our school environment, would we lose some students getting those services because of a lack of transportation by their families? I think that's my question.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Can you say that again? I want to make sure I'm getting it. Okay. Too much candy. Please bear with me.

[R15385-128] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: Can you say that again? I want to make sure I'm getting it. Okay. Too much candy. Please bear with me.
TEXT> I'm jealous. Right now. We have our services for children. Yes. Language ot right in the. Right here. Okay. If there's a discussion about having those services, the sought by the families through their medical coverage outside of this pre-k program. Yeah. Do is there a chance that some students will not get the services because of transportation issues with their families? In other words, if somebody doesn't have a car.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I see what you're saying. Yeah.

[R15385-131] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I just think that's something to think about. And yeah, I don't know what the implications of that might be.
TEXT> I mean, there are  there are  children and families that work with, say, Valley, you know, as an example, Valley employs a speech language pathologist, you know, who actually used to work for our district. And so there are families that, that, you know, drive their child to valley to receive to receive services. Again, my my assumption, maybe wrongly, would be that if they signed on for those services that they would have transportation to, to get the, get the child there. But those, those services are, are, you know, up to the family to, to coordinate the services that the district is responsible for is if the child goes through the valuation process and the child is determined eligible, then then that's where the obligation lands on the district to to get the child to the services if that's a barrier.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Okay.

[R15385-141] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's what I think. That's what. We're.
TEXT> Right and what and what what does happen is there are families that have children that that receive special ed services from the district, but then believe that a double dose is not going to hurt, and then we'll use their insurance to access additional services.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Okay, so that no child will lose services because of transportation. Or.

[R15385-142] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: and what and what what does happen is there are families that have children that that receive special ed services from the district, but then believe that a double dose is not going to hurt, and then we'll use their insurance to access additional services.
TEXT> Okay, so that no child will lose services because of transportation. Or.
NEXT> Ben Nester: No.

[R15385-147] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; budget/finance subcommittee - the  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: In plan?
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. And so we had to evaluate it. So what we started with was a file review and things like that. And the motivation, one of the reasons they do that is do you refer DHHS. So DHHS because I remember talking to Jodi Varney one time, she was one of the probation officers, and she was begging me to that, that begging me to identify the student. And their motivation is if we identify the student a special ed, it becomes the school district's responsibility to to provide the services rather than the state. So I'm going with this. You had said a while back that we get a lot of referrals from outside agencies. Sure. Yeah. Are those referrals similar to what I just described, possibly ever?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. I mean, special ed is so complex, it's almost always hard to give you a two line answer.

[R15385-150] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, they're pretty direct with me. I mean, they yeah. Jodi was pretty plain. We want you to pay for it.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. And that's and there is an element of that I, we still experience. Right. The state is often looking to offload expenses onto the, onto the local taxpayer, which is unfortunate in my view.  You know, pre-K in particular, we received the bulk of our, our referrals or the most referrals that we that we see district wide from agencies are at the pre-K level. And I think it's because of the early supports and services or pathways there. You know, their their obligation under the law is is birth to three. And so if they identify a child is eligible, then then similar to the court process that we're their legally obligated to refer the kid to us at age 27 months. And so then we have to respond to the referral and determine if we, you know, evaluate or not. But but I will say on a, on a on another note, and I mentioned this, I think in an earlier board meeting,  this year we instituted a right, instituted a new process for in district special ed referrals. We adopted a new form that requires administration signature at the building level. And then my signature. So that has to come across my desk.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And, and I want to give credit to our teachers, to those that are, you know, working to provide RTI in the schools. So far, we've seen one special ed

[R15385-154] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - she moves the pa | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah.
TEXT> How many students are in the pre-K program 6060.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Two right now okay.

[R15385-159] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - gives the superintendent's report at segments  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Yeah. So. We're moving. We want to move the pre-K into the buildings because it's better for the students. It's a more accepted model. I just want to know what the goal is.
TEXT> Yeah. So a bunch of reasons. So  it's it's easier to,  In a perfect world, you'd have  we'd have enough capacity at the schools, both in terms of rooms and teaching staff to have local early, you know, at each place. We don't know that that's going to be the case. We suggest  in our early meetings with the principles that if we do put them in, we will have what's what's taxing here is we don't have,  you know, administrative support. We don't have specials. We don't have the experience to integrate a kid earlier into the school environment and also for new parents,  you know, just welcome welcoming them as well to our school community. So,  we, we know interventions in early literacy would be more controlled if we had that. And that's, that's the driver for it. It's also,  we also think we would have  we could effectively  have a director of that program within the schools, or if it was in two schools going back and forth as an additional administrator and specialist, hitting both programs for consistency. And obviously, the transportation issues that were alluded to before would be easier controlled because we have the,  you know, bus routes and the other types of things. It does tax this center and it does isolate this center. So,  so that was the early rationale for for all of it from the principals. Thank you Mike.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Can I just add a couple more things for a couple other reasons in my mind. Or if we move into the schools, we can perhaps give the pre-K students

[R15385-160] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: easier controlled because we have the, you know, bus routes and the other types of things. It does tax this center and it does isolate this center. So, so that was the early rationale for for all of it from the principals. Thank you Mike.
TEXT> Can I just add a couple more things for  a couple other reasons in my mind. Or if we move into the schools, we can perhaps give the pre-K students specials like PE and so on. And then that will allow us to go to a five day model, which I think we desperately need. The  the other region you mentioned is it is just it's atypical. It's not normal for it to be a standalone situation. Also, like Mike said, you have secretaries and infrastructure already existing in the building. Right. Right. And right now, what we do to manage the the clerical and secretarial side of is we will have paraprofessionals doing some of that work is they're not  really trained to do, but it's how we're making it work. Currently. Oversight improves.  Another issue is substitutes. Right now, if pre-K staff were out due to illness, we have very few to know substitutes in the district. And so they have to cover internally. If you're in a building, there's a lot of other staff in paraprofessionals that can jump in and and sub on a given day. And then the last item is, like Mike mentioned with specialist assistance and so on. Right now they travel to the pre-K and other buildings. So that is travel time is less efficient for them. And so if it's in the building cuts down on travel time for. For staff.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Is there a capacity at the elementary schools to house additional classrooms?

[R15385-164] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - gives the superintendent's report at segments  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Bonnie Miles: I know it's like the million dollar question. So we have to say out loud.
TEXT> There's also things that are that we have to write anyway. So we had the kind of tough discussions with the principals this week. We're following up on Wednesday as well where. We're already shifting, you know the the model in bluff with the multi grade. We've already moved kids out of  some students out of  different catchments. And we we need to get after that. And we need to look at the the  the certain catchment and  for, for each school as well as  there's there's been a big shift also in the  in enrollment within  the enrollment. And bluff has gone up. The enrollment this year in Maple has gone down dramatically. And all of those things combined, we have to look at and see how we officially budget in the other realization. And I'll get to my segue, Heather, I'm working on it. I'm trying to, you know, but,  we had trouble. Everyone is having trouble hiring staff. We got on it as early as we could  in the spring, throughout the summer, in  the principles that did a great job coming up with creative,  you know, ideas. But we need to be realistic. We need to be aggressive in  in the next agenda item coming up with Paris, we'll talk about, but also with, with,  just being realistic about who we're going to get when we're going to get them in.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And if we have to increase class size or do other types of things, we need to make sure we can get all of this done, and that's what we're

[R15385-332] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: to be canceled, just due to a lot of conflicts. But the committee is really excited, and we'll be reviewing what policies we'd like to focus on at our next meeting, which will be, what, December 6th. Right. Yeah, a month from today. Stay tuned.
TEXT> Thank you. Next  item on the agenda is a hopefully a brief nonpublic session  for current. And it's,  RSA  91-A colon, two k consideration of a school board of entering of a school board entering into a student or pupil contract authorized by RSA 119 or RSA 195-9.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Was that the motion?

[R15385-364] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: And we have a motion on the table for.
TEXT> Item number nine, the approval of tuition. Yes. I move that we approve. The. Tuition rate at 16,000 for K-12 students for the year 24, 2024, 2025.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any discussion? Oh, I'll second the motion. And notice any discussion. No discussion. All in favor of setting our tuition rate for K through 51612 K through 12.

[R15413-4] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order at segment  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Ben Nester: Here, miles. Here. Gallagher. Harley Hawkins here in his cross. Here.
TEXT> Moving on to our consent agenda, we have two  additional items that had to be added last minute. One is the appointment of  our Claremont School board clerk. And the second is a brief nonpublic to occur immediately after  student board member report. Okay. Also on our consent agenda is approval of the board minutes from our last meeting and the acceptance of a donation of $3,000 from the Jack and Byrne Foundation to purchase medals and championship trophy, and to pay for referees for the Claremont Football League. And we appreciate the Jack, Jack, Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation for once again contributing so generously to our district. Is there any objection to the amendments to the acceptance of the donations or the approval of last minutes meetings? Seeing none. We're going to accept that agenda, the consent agenda. Now we're moving on to citizens comments. Is there anyone in the audience who would like to comment? Seeing no one in the audience commenting, we are going to close citizens comments. Now we'll turn our attention to our two student board members, new Cole Bouchard and Kylie Plummer. Did I say that correctly? Thank you.
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: All right. Thank you for having me again. I just wanted to speak about a few brief little things. The first being is that I think Stevens should start to

[R15413-6] Nicole Bouchard | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the chair intro | 2023-11-15
PREV> Nicole Bouchard: 45 minute block called Focus Study where now we do excel, which you guys have heard about, or we finish work from classes that isn't done. But last year during that block, we had an opportunity to go to other teachers to get additional help.
TEXT> But this year we don't. And since we don't have this anymore, and we did last year, I'm sure that there was a good reason to get rid of it. But it was very beneficial for me and other students grades. So maybe we should be more lenient about letting students go to other teachers in the last. I'm not sure if you guys like need to know about this, but I think it'd be very creative to let students start doing morning announcements. Thank you.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I think that's great. We used to. So the main thing I.

[R15413-8] Kylie Plummer | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the second of t | 2023-11-15
PREV> Ben Nester: I think that's great. We used to. So the main thing I.
TEXT> Wanted to talk about today was the communication between the Newport Tech Center and Stevens.  Recently there was a cosmetology field trip, and I am a part of the cosmetology class over there. And last minute, the night before Sunday night, it was like 9 p.m. and I just received an email from my teacher saying that there was no transportation available for me to get to Newport, which severely affected my mom's schedule, my schedule, and my sisters. And there is only one other cosmetology student currently coming from Claremont, and however, he was not able to attend, but there was no transportation for me to get there on time and there at and back to Claremont at a reasonable time. And the communication that my mother had was she called Stevens and was told that there no one informed Stevens that there was a field trip. So if not for my mom calling, I would have been marked cut and all my classes and had a detention. I think we should figure out better ways to communicate with Newport, whether that be via Google meets or  monthly or weekly meetings with Newport.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That was very helpful. That's the stuff we really want to hear about. And I just wanted to follow up from last meeting. I know that there was some discussion

[R15413-10] Nicole Bouchard | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the chair intro | 2023-11-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: discussion from board members. We were kind of our ears were piqued about the vandalism in the bathrooms. And would you kind of repeat what. Just so I can we can hear it again, what your suggestion was about having like hall monitors or. Yes.
TEXT> Yes. So from what I know, it was about 1 or 2 students doing vandalism and the boys bathroom every day. So I think that having a hall monitor, maybe even just for one day, could catch the people who were doing the vandalism. So having a hall monitor would checking the bathrooms frequently would make it easier to find who's doing this. And once we do find out who has been vandalizing the bathrooms, I think that consequences should be higher, given the fact that we have warned the students who we don't know multiple times.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They sound really committed though.

[R15413-18] Kylie Plummer | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the second of t | 2023-11-15
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah, I'm not aware of that, but I'll. I'll look into it. I ended up when I heard. Okay.
TEXT> Apparently, like, the rumor floating around is that  someone is taking walks at a 504. I'm not sure if it's the same with IEPs. I'm not sure if it's illegal to do that with IEPs. They're doing what?  But I've, like, several students are  like this. Yeah. It's like freaking them out because  there are students who just can't get IEPs for whatever reasons. And they have a 504 and the walks extremely help them. I was a student with a 504 last year, and I had that on my 504, and I don't think I would have survived my freshman year without the walks.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. And figure out what's going.

[R15413-24] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Accommodations, accommodations.
TEXT> Yeah. You know, what it looks like in schools is,  the time to complete a complete test processing or something like that. It all it all goes back to does the child have a impairment or a, you know, a impairment that impacts their ability to function in whatever environment?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So with my better understanding, tell me again. What's the issue?

[R15413-26] Kylie Plummer | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the second of t | 2023-11-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: So with my better understanding, tell me again. What's the issue?
TEXT> So there are walks in 504, which helps students who.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Like the ability to take a walk.

[R15413-32] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Kylie Plummer: And from our understanding, it's being taken away.
TEXT> But for the 504, to take walks has been to be okay. Got it. Now I understand. My second question is,  is there a student council?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[R15413-36] Kylie Plummer | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the second of t | 2023-11-15
PREV> Nicole Bouchard: Well, we don't.
TEXT> We're not really in contact with the student council.
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: And I'm not even sure if they know if we, that we're doing this. So I think that that should be an order.

[R15413-41] Kylie Plummer | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the second of t | 2023-11-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: But because I think the student council could address, you know, as representatives of the student body with the administration, I think a lot of these could be worked out in that form.
TEXT> I honestly hope that that comes.  Currently, as far as like I've seen student council, I've only seen or heard about what they do through like fundraising and like school dances. I'm sure they do much more than that, but that's like the only time I recognized.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So could you have any objection to, myself reaching out to Chris Pratt and see. If. There be?

[R15413-106] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes.
TEXT> Yes. Sorry. Every student succeeds. Act. Yeah. Yeah.
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: I'm sorry. We actually need a roll call. Vote to seal the minutes. Oh.

[R15413-118] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Michael Tempesta says 'I would defer | 2023-11-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we're also reaching out to our cohort of other people in the area. Quite a few districts had schools identified in Sullivan County and around the state. There were 19 newly identified. So I would defer to Mr. Kosky for the for the deets as.
TEXT> My daughter. So there's you have this paper front of you which is from the state. The title side. On the top right hand side s key components. There are three different categories that schools can be identified in comprehensive support, targeted support and then additional targeted support. Those are in order from worst to best identification not worse. The best, but the least. Worst. The least. Yes. Most to least improvements.  And then if you look down at the bottom grid, you'll notice there's a big gap. During the Covid years, there were reading targets and math targets on the state assessment scores for each of those years.  And no scores were recorded in 20 and 21  due to Covid. And so just remember those scores for a moment. Those are percents of students that are proficient in math and Ela on the state test statewide. Yes. Yes. So these are the targets that we want everybody to reach. If you then flip over to the back and I'm going to skip the top section about growth, because that gets a little complicated. But, change number three about the timeline.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And then there's a I exit criteria and I exit criteria. So basically we've been identified as not, well, not the entire district, but certain schools have been identified as

[R15413-119] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Michael Tempesta says 'I would defer | 2023-11-15
PREV> Mike Koski: statewide. Yes. Yes. So these are the targets that we want everybody to reach. If you then flip over to the back and I'm going to skip the top section about growth, because that gets a little complicated. But, change number three about the timeline.
TEXT> And then there's a I  exit criteria and I exit criteria. So basically we've been identified as not, well, not the entire district, but certain schools have been identified as in need of improvement in one of those three categories for performing either in the bottom 5% of title one schools for the state or  some subgroup reintroduce lunch students, special education students. Minority groups as in the bottom 5% of the state. And so depending on the school  the in that determines their classification subgroups don't count as much as the whole title one classification. So if you're in the bottom 5%, title one, you're in a CSI category, which is the most, intervention needed because that's the largest number of students impacted. Question. Candace, is.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It is it the whole district for title one, or is it just the one.

[R15413-127] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Mike Koski: So for this year. Not in years past.
TEXT> This is relative to only title one students.
NEXT> Mike Koski: No. Title one. Title one.

[R15413-135] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - moves every motion of the night ( | 2023-11-15
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes.
TEXT> So how many kids.  It used to be with,  No Child Left Behind, that it was any subgroup with ten kids or more was a cohort.
NEXT> Mike Koski: You still need to have that.

[R15413-188] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Mike Koski: They measure everybody. Yes. And then they grade in as CSI the bottom 5%.
TEXT> And is it true that all students in every district must take this test?
NEXT> Mike Koski: No. There's a parent opt out for the state test. It does count against the school grade. It's not a blank. It counts as a as a non passing score.

[R15413-201] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - moves every motion of the night ( | 2023-11-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Right.
TEXT> So we used to have the ability if there was a student that would, if the sitting and taking a test like that would cause undue stress. We could actually apply to the state for for an exemption for that student with no penalty. Does that no child left behind, though.
NEXT> Mike Koski: If a if a child's unable to access the state test and.

[R15413-202] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Michael Tempesta says 'I would defer | 2023-11-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: ability if there was a student that would, if the sitting and taking a test like that would cause undue stress. We could actually apply to the state for for an exemption for that student with no penalty. Does that no child left behind, though.
TEXT> If a if a child's  unable to access the state test and.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We.

