[R14833-173] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Richard Seaman: A half $1 million.
TEXT> I think that ideally level rate would be ideal, but I think level fund might be passable with the public, to be quite honest, because we're not taking anything away. We're not throwing a huge investment at anything at this time because we're not in a position as a community to do that. I mean, you're paying what's five, $6 for milk and eggs and everything else is up. Ridiculous numbers. And there's families really, really struggling out there. We've had a mild beginning of this winter fortunately, because if if that was different, there'd be pitchforks outside talking about spending money, because there'd be the homeless people, because they couldn't heat their homes, they'd be coming in here as a shelter. I,  I think that that's our that's a happy medium is the 63 cent difference. I think quite honestly, if we're in different economic times, in a different position in the community and scores were booming off the charts with our new curriculum that we're doing, then I, I think we'd be in a better position. But we're not there. We're in reality, so we need to preserve this contract to keep teachers here first and foremost, because that's the only way these students are going to advance.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That's the only way this community is going to thrive, because with high turnover, you lose a teacher that parents like. If we can preserve that, we start building faith

[R14833-194] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Frank' [141, 752, 768, 7 | 2023-01-11
PREV> Joshua Lambert: Just at the very quick man.
TEXT> That of course question for Ben. So we we were talking about some changes at the preschool. Yeah. And special ed. Yes. So is there a cap on that program for special ed kids.
NEXT> Ben Nester: There's not a cap.

[R14833-198] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-11
PREV> Ben Nester: at a tighter, tighter budget and a little bit of a tighter structure that we're used to. We're going to be looking at more creative ways to serve those kids so that maybe more kids dropping in services versus attending a half day program. Yeah.
TEXT> What's our relationship with Head Start? Do we have one? We didn't know you were down. So there's a handful of kids currently at headstart that require special ed services, but elect to keep their kids there, and are they at capacity? I don't know, that's a good question. They're free. I mean, the federal the federal government pays for that program started.
NEXT> Ben Nester: We pushed a couple of dividers in getting special ed services, but some of them to start working full time. So those are the avenues we're going to be looking

[R14833-210] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member of the budget committee on the special e | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: Oh, yes.
TEXT> So as the budget committee, there are times where we have people come up that are unexpected and expensive. Special needs kids are  speculating as business. There's some times money built in. In Newman case, as we went through, we talked a bit in the station and there was some in the budget previously that that's been now pulled that I think it was in two and 19 was  $270,000. So that has been pulled back. So at this point, if we have unexpected expenses in special ed area, we're going to rely on on that fund that we have to to fund that if. But there's also my other thought is, is going to be taking any of that five and put 250 000 towards special this year because we know it's a rough budget season help offset some of this, this year's budget.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think the wording when we created that reserve fund was specifically to create programing, not to offset one time costs. Or is that the case? Because that was the

[R14833-315] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (recognized as 'Heather' [260, 666]; | 2023-01-11
PREV> Richard Seaman: That's that's absolutely that's where it is.
TEXT> So that's the way we need to look is cutting the budget this way is pro teachers and pro students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Ultimately I.

[R14833-390] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: They can cook.
TEXT> And there's  and there are a lot of kids that go through there. So I think you've seen we've changed around the flow between the two rooms, but that's absolutely we know about it, and it's now just a matter of bringing it forward with our new food service provider. Okay. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R14833-396] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yes. Anything else on the have to approve it.
TEXT> Can I throw one more thing out here? I know everyone wants to go home, but, you know, it's one more thing. Unity School District a couple of years ago, put in place a, or had a motion, a warrant article that said the surplus that they have in the school because normally you asked Frank if there's a surplus from a year or what happens to it, and if there's a surplus by statute, it goes back to taxpayers to reduce tax rate in future years. Unity put in place a couple of years ago. That said, if there is a surplus up to a certain amount of money now, in their case, they wanted to build a tuition reserve because they had a lot of kids going and they having to pay tuitions on, but up to a certain amount would go into an expendable trust only if there's a surplus. So it's not an additional cost to taxpayers, but it's already approved in the budget. But it gives the ability to continue to build these expendable trusts. And as we're considering some of the things on Capital Reserve, we have, I believe, a half $1 million in there right now, which, as compared to the size of all the things we have to do, is is good.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We could use a little more. Would the board consider having that kind of a warrant article that if there is a surplus up to pick a number, 100,000 of

[R14833-419] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member reporting for the capital improvement co | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is.
TEXT> That I am I we all know that there is some days the students in Newport and students in the plan on have different days off.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Oh yeah. Yeah. So so that so that's okay. So we're talking about the.

[R14833-519] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, resigning after this meeting (chair: 'I | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: And Josh wanted a chance to make a statement, so. Yeah. You got the floor.
TEXT> Yeah. Just to the public. I mean, it has nothing to do with the board. It's just personal life. It's getting very busy with foster parenting and potentials there. And very soon going back to grad school, hopefully. Fingers crossed. So just wanted the public to know. Has nothing to do with the seat.  Hoping since we put it to a vote. Whoever runs is very committed to public education to not only, the students, but also the teachers and everyone in the building stay in and day out. And it's it's been real. It's been fun. It's been not fun. It's been a lot of things.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R14833-525] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Frank' [141, 752, 768, 7 | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: budget? And then followed by that directly after that at 730 is the Claremont Public Hearing for our budget. And it's at that point where we would have to take a vote to move a dollar amount to the deliberative session. Frank, I saw you.
TEXT> Okay. One of the things that, to Whitney's point earlier, that how we go through the budget line by line, I,  and if Steve were here, he was talking about,  you know, working on the fundamentals of, of kids, their  basic learning. So I,  in the budget process, notice that we have  a lot of resources dedicated to to that very purpose, including title one. So I'd like I would like to request at some point a report out on title one. And what I'd like to know is about their program, what their caseloads are,  who are their targeted kids, how do they assess kids to identify them for services, and then how do they measure exit criteria and indicators of success? On for title one? We have a lot of resources there, and I know it's all grant funded, but still,  I'd like to know what these folks do.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Another thing that I've heard, and I know Steven wanted it more for budget time, but I think we need it anyways. It's been talked about before. Is a report

[R14847-328] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: through and cycling our our Chromebooks. That will be a continual expense. No change in the grants, the federal grants, food service or adult education that is anticipated, which gives us a budget for this year $38,345,312, an increase of 205,460 from the current year.
TEXT> Going on to the second page, which is a discussion of revenues for those that were here before the district assessment. We're going to hold, because that's in effect our plug number. That's what we have to raise. Once we know all of our other revenue streams for tuitions, we're looking to have it the same as this year for tuition, both those coming into Stephens as well as those for the vocational education transportation fees, which were received from the state for the tech center is at the same level. Interest income I've kept at the same level. It will probably go up as interest rates have risen. Pupil activities are monies that we get from the activity funds, and the 175 of other are primarily donations that are received over the course of the year, and that's proven to be a good estimate. We're estimating approximately $400,000 surplus coming out of this year. That carries into next year as one of our funding sources on state sources. Let's go down to state property tax first, which is showing increase of $420,000.  State property tax is done against equalized valuation, not against our grand list valuation. So whereas the grand list for Claremont is 774 or $744 million, the equalized value, is it closer to $1 billion?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So we pay an increased statewide property tax went up from 123 to 144 on this larger number and equalized valuation. Or basically what the state is saying is the

[R14847-331] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: grant was that was the one we just received as well. When they did an expansion for this year of the 482,000. Is that correct? Correct. So basically they gave us 482 and then took it away plus 200 grand just to let everybody know.
TEXT> Actually what they did is, is if I could it's almost that Steve. They gave us 482,000 in fiscal 23. And because of the way it's calculated, it's also calculated based on equalized valuation per free and reduced student. So we went from 482 last year to 379 this year of just that one component of adequacy.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And my whole point is, is that they bumped us along, advanced the additional grant, and now we're seeing a net change of almost 700 grand the following year. That's

[R14847-375] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2, former student representative to the School  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: 131381 I believe.
TEXT> So that's what I thought it was. So I did a quick search of local school district to see if it compares in a dozen. It's not even competitive. Hanover regular support staff is 1616 to 1786 per hour. That's for neurotypical students.  Fall Mountain special ed para listed on indeed at 1649 to 2091 per hour. They require associates, or at least some college and a pair of two certification. If you're interested in what a pair of two certification is, I brought out the requirements in the handout. And what's interesting is that saw six is they also asked for a pair of two certification. Some things to know about Paris two certification is that they do want you to have an associate's or higher degree or some college credit. You do have to pass nationally recognized assessment as a pair of pro, and you have to have strengths to show that you're a qualified candidate to be a paraprofessional. I mean, at $13 an hour, if I'm $50,000 in debt from student loans, I'm going to go to Charlestown, which indeed reported was one of the highest paying,  cities in New Hampshire for paraprofessionals.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: It was updated January 12th, 2023, at 1857 per hour. So instead of bringing problems to you, I also thought of maybe bringing some solutions. So River Valley Community Center

[R14847-379] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, Ward 2 residen | 2023-01-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: entrepreneurship overall. You know, I think 99% of all businesses are 50 or 50 employees or less in this country, and they are very is their need. If you go down Pleasant Street, I see that every day we talk to the Claremont Development Board.
TEXT> They were very excited about the opportunity for that program. I also looked at the program of studies at the Stevens High School. If you haven't looked at it, and if you want to know the business courses that they have, it's called Digital Technology Intro to computers, Web and Print design, College and career readiness, multimedia communications, nothing business related. And I don't believe since I've been here, we've sent ever a student over to Newport to study the journal business.  So that's the focus on the, the the business entrepreneurship, the teacher ed program. One of the things that  made me look at that, and we talked about that as a vision committee, is the requirement as a preschool here, that this building be a exclusively used for CTE. And having that preschool here, it puts us out of compliance. If we have a teacher ed program that would be in, we'd be in compliance with the state on that. And we could offer opportunities for students. And, you know, hearing about the Paris, one of the things we want to do is create a pair of one. Pair of two.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Looking at the certifications by the state. How do we get them ready for those as we go along? All those, as well as aligning everything with college credit, that's

[R14847-380] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, Ward 2 residen | 2023-01-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: program that would be in, we'd be in compliance with the state on that. And we could offer opportunities for students. And, you know, hearing about the Paris, one of the things we want to do is create a pair of one. Pair of two.
TEXT> Looking at the certifications by the state. How do we get them ready for those as we go along?  All those, as well as aligning everything with college credit, that's the most important thing here, when I think about our programs at the tech Center is how do we get running start credit, how do students get  other credits associated, as well as internships for those businesses that really want to take on students so they get more experiences? So that's where we're at with the two programs. I'll be here all night. So if there's additional questions, I don't want to take up the opening.  We do have a region ten meeting scheduled for January 25th in this room at 6 p.m.. If you were all welcome to attend, we'd love to have you there. And  the boiler update that came up before I asked Ray Belanger. I said, Ray, I, I've been here five years. We've never talked about the boilers. And he said, oh,  we just kind of fixed it and didn't talk about it. So there had been problems. I guess they were changed to 2014 when there was another grant that we got into European made boiler. So parts are hard to get for it requires a high maintenance. So Bonnie, you're absolutely correct. This did come up, but I had never heard it. So I wanted to follow up and I just wanted to share that information with you. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Anyone further? Mr. Pope?

[R14847-382] Scott Pope |  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Anyone further? Mr. Pope?
TEXT> I had a couple. Of. Questions regarding the budget. I watched a lot. The meeting for formalities. Can we get your name and ward, please? Ward two. Thank you. So,  so at the last meeting, I recall that  Principal Pratt from the high school needed to, by state requirements, hire a personal finance teacher. And there was some discussion. I believe it was by yourself, Mr. Peter, and all that this person could also perhaps be the impetus of maybe starting the entrepreneurship program. And would there be some sort of a commitment to that, rather than this person being half time to actually maybe putting the foothold in to get that entrepreneurs ship program started here, or at least do the teaching of it here, pilot program or whatever. I mean, it's a way to get a program started. And I'll back up a little bit. When we started this center, we had half time teachers, except for myself, because I had already come in with an established program and these teachers taught an intro class and say a plumbing one. I'll use the plumbing. We didn't have the students to do plumbing two at the time. However, this personal finance teacher could teach the personal finance class, do the entrepreneurship one, start growing the program the proper way?
NEXT> Scott Pope: You couldn't do the entrepreneurship class two yet because you don't have the students to graduate through. So that's kind of my thinking. And that's what I was thinking when

[R14847-383] Scott Pope |  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Scott Pope: intro class and say a plumbing one. I'll use the plumbing. We didn't have the students to do plumbing two at the time. However, this personal finance teacher could teach the personal finance class, do the entrepreneurship one, start growing the program the proper way?
TEXT> You couldn't do the entrepreneurship class two yet because you don't have the students to graduate through. So that's kind of my thinking. And that's what I was thinking when you guys were actually talking about this at your board meeting. I think you had a very good way that this program could be put in and for the next year. And so, I mean, at least something good out of that situation with the tech center, the teacher program. I do have to say that's when I was listening to duplication and such. I have to say that that program had actually been proposed back in 2017 by Joel Snyder and had been proposed several times. And actually, if you look at your school program of studies, there's a course description for teacher prep one and teacher Prep two that it's supposedly offered this year, but it won't be. So I mean, the duplication. I don't know what to tell you. I mean, we're researching this back in 2015. I don't, you know, previous administrators that worked here, that now work elsewhere probably took some ideas. But, you know, I don't know what to say there. And I hope you can read between the lines. Probably. But,  I also hope and I know this off track, but that the visioning Committee does come before the school board. I think you guys had talked about this in February. The sun setting and changing the way it's going. I.
NEXT> Scott Pope: Wouldn't mind seeing that, but I mean, the entrepreneurship program, I think you guys had a good idea to get this started. And I hope that as that program grows,

[R14847-386] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2, NH State Representative for Claremont and Cr | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: You, thank you, thank you Scott. Any anybody else that hasn't spoken yet. All right, Mr. Merchant.
TEXT> First Gary Merchant, Ward two, state rep Lamont Croydon. First, I wanted to say to all of you folks in the school board, thank you for what you're doing. It's a thankless job. No one realizes how much work is involved until you're sitting in those chairs and how much you have to learn. So I want to say my behalf, and probably one else in the audience, sincere thank you for what you're doing in regards to the budget itself. I think one of the things that's key here is going to be the teachers, like in health care, you need docs and need patients. The hospital is immaterial a lot of ways. But if you don't have physicians, you don't have patients, you don't have a hospital. If we don't have students, we don't have teachers, we don't have school. So both of them are critically important to us. I would like to be sure that the board somehow is thinking about what Mr. Putnam talked about. How do we sell this to the public? We need it. We got us what the budget is. We need to be sure to have this, this sport,  both themselves from the salary, but at the same time, the support staff around them.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: And if we have the right formula, if you will. I think we can be very successful. This community has come a long ways. You talk to realtors and so

[R14847-392] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (Frank Sprague: 'Mr. Pratt said that wa | 2023-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: Excuse me?
TEXT> That would be upon. Enrollment and and. Students who need the course to graduate. So there's approximately 100 ish juniors who would need to take the course. Yep.  Which would amount to 3 to 4 sections over. Six sections. So probably two thirds of the position would need to be dedicated to the high school. Yes.
NEXT> David Putnam: So that only leaves.

[R14847-397] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2, former School Board and SAU chair (self-iden | 2023-01-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: One block per semester or two for the full year. Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> So when we did some math ourselves, we, we recognized that the two positions that we proposed for the CTE center,  represent less than 0.05% of the whole budget. And that, to us, seems like a real small investment compared to how this community values this CTE program in this building. And it's known it's knowledge that this program here has a higher graduation rate of students than any other public school program. So, so and there's so many entities in this community that really expect a lot from this program, in this in this building. So I need you to really think about this less as an expense, but more as an investment because that truly what it is. A lot of the people that graduate from here stay here and work here with good jobs, and they are part of the fiber and fabric of our community as we continue to grow. It's part of our image, and this school building represents a major part of the image for our school system. So I ask you to really consider the two programs that we're we're promoting. Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Thank you. I'm sorry.

[R14847-403] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (Frank Sprague: 'Mr. Pratt said that wa | 2023-01-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's a half time position for 100.
TEXT> And 20 kids. Oh, okay. Does that.
NEXT> David Putnam: Change the timing?

[R14847-405] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> David Putnam: Change the timing?
TEXT> It can be anytime. Just. Well, if he if if kids only have to take one half credit of it and they take it in their junior year, there's 120 of them. And you've got a teacher that can teach six sections that six sections over the course of a year or six half credits. So it's out of 12. That's half time.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So.

[R14847-417] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified 'Patrick. Adrian. Ward one'  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: seems like we can probably, you know, be flexible, you know, with how we're coming, going about it and knowing that there are ways to kind of meet this demand. But I really like the idea of having a, of having this business entrepreneur class.
TEXT> We need more credits, especially with the schedule, the way it is. I'm really hoping that by junior, senior year that my child is going to have some electives that actually can still kind of connect to core, come  be applied, learning opportunities with the core subjects, because with the way our schedule is, they're not going to have any core subjects by junior, senior year because they will have completed them.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yeah.

[R14847-443] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified 'Patrick. Adrian. Ward one'  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: I.
TEXT> Think that having now a student in the ninth grade,  I it's become, you know, pretty alarming to me the schedule.  And a former principal even confirmed to me last year that, that they believe the schedule plays a part into the low math scores at the high school level. And I would believe that, I hear story after story about some of our top students, graduates that go on to college and struggle with the math courses and either have to step down to a lower level or are struggling, and it's not because of our teachers, but because of the fact that they're they're having they're not having a continuity of math from freshman this senior year. That's not right. I've never seen a schedule any high school like that. And so and, and I'm particularly worried because I, I know that this is going to be a lot more difficult than I. What I've heard, they feel like they, you know, when the administration introduces this idea of sounds like, oh, yeah, this is going to be don't really see this being really difficult.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: You know, people seem to be on board with this idea. I think it's going to be a lot more complicated. You know, we've already seen what happened in this

[R14847-445] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1 (self-identified 'Patrick. Adrian. Ward one'  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I know this doesn't fall on the school board, but this needs to be like a real committee. It needs to be organized and well done. And I really hope that the school board is kind of holding is kind of on top of this.
TEXT> And I'm sorry to hear suddenly out of the blue when when it just seems like, you know, we hear, oh, everything's going fine, everything's going fine, and we don't, but we're not getting any progress updates. And then suddenly here, it's not ready, it's not going to be ready next year. And it as a parent it cannot. I'm sorry. That's not acceptable to me. We need answers. Why? Because I think if there was a committee and this had been done in organized way a couple of years ago, I don't care about Covid. We've had a couple years since then. This could have been done, or at least we would know kind of where we are and how far left we have to go. This has to be done and it has to be successful. It's not fair to our high school students. It's really affecting their their education and their continuing education. So thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.

[R14847-452] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Any further citizens comments? All right. Seeing none, I'm. Going to move on to our discussion and action items. First on our list is the 2024 budget. Start with Steven.
TEXT> So I'd like to address a packet that went out at the beginning of the meeting.  Because people are probably sitting there going, oh my God, I see he's cutting the tech center or oh my God, I see he's cutting athletics. Haha.  Just joke on you guys. I'm really not. But what the point of what I did in this little exercise after having a fair amount of trouble trying to get information of what a bare bones budget would look like, I decided to, figure out a way with limited time to get there, and I was provided with editor 306 from, the administration, which is the minimum standards now of those minimum standards. It describes what classes have to be, of what composition, how many administrators you need, how many students in the class based off their age, cohort. So you have K through 12 representing. Starting from the top of this lovely little page is 20 students per classroom. Three through five is 25 per class. Junior high and high school is 30. And then if they're in a lab, it's 24 or based off the number of workstations, they can accommodate these. Then we go to our guidance counselors because we've had lots of talk about what we need, guidance counselors and where we need them. Elementary school, one to every 500 children. Junior high school and high school one to every 300 children.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So interestingly enough, assistants vice principals are required in schools with 500 operator. So if you look at some of the line items in the budget, I've spent way too

[R14847-454] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: based off our enrollments. So when I was able to do that, that allowed me to figure out that according and it matches up with what the paperwork actually had, they were we're hearing the teachers, but according to minimum standards, we're technically heavily overstaffed.
TEXT> We're running at better than a 50% ratio than what the minimum standards required. So in order to properly alleviate some of the budget, I've sat there and looked at, well, if we're overspending because we can technically have classrooms with more students in them, thus creating more consistent learning because they all have the same teacher. I figured out a way to save tons of money, and when I say tons of money, we're talking somewhere around $2.2 million just by condensing our classroom sizes. Light bulb goes off in head. Because I've been a big proponent of restructuring, well. Cutting the number of teachers and condensing my classrooms to get there because I'm overstaffed, does that mean that I'm going to have more room in my buildings? And if I have more rooms in my buildings, does that mean I can better utilize the buildings we have in district? We've talked about pre-K programs. We've talked about adding other programs in regards to special ed. Well, if I can free up almost a building, I'm onto something here. But the big thing that I really want to focus on tonight is that according to the mathematics provided by the state as a guideline to follow, we need 14 teachers at Maple, as we currently have 16 based off the average of salaries of total compensation.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: It's roughly 99,000 per teacher at that building, with the high being 119,000, in a low being 59,000. Obviously, somebody who's very high on their steps, somebody who's probably middle

[R14847-455] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: big thing that I really want to focus on tonight is that according to the mathematics provided by the state as a guideline to follow, we need 14 teachers at Maple, as we currently have 16 based off the average of salaries of total compensation.
TEXT> It's roughly 99,000 per teacher at that building, with the high being 119,000, in a low being 59,000. Obviously, somebody who's very high on their steps, somebody who's probably middle of the road to the upper low side right there. Just by changing the two positions that aren't necessarily required to meet the guidelines set forth by the state, I save 200,000. Well, we're off to a good start. Then you go to Maple. You can get rid of an assistant principal based off the numbers of students. So that's $120,000. You can now change your R.N. to a different position. That could save you a little bit because of the requirements set forth by the state. I figure a rough savings of about 30,000. So your total savings right along in just maple is $350,000. Now everybody's looking at these numbers saying, I'm cutting, cutting, cutting, cutting and I'm getting rid of people, blah, blah, blah. Well, that's not really what I'm thinking because as I'm going through this process, if we can get the budget down, but we can be more effective with our money, does that 350,000 just pay for a program up here at the tech center? Okay, I'm looking for some response in some of these rhetorical questions, because I want to make sure everybody's following along because this is very long winded. One of your.
NEXT> Unidentified: Whole presentation.

[R14847-457] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: Whole presentation.
TEXT> Well, it's a lot because I want to make sure everybody's absorbing stuff. So this night I did the same thing. Well, this isn't that interesting  I found it. We're about six teachers over. That's a big chunk of change. It's over half $1 million. Then once again, an assistant principal and cutting down the  position so that total building can save $605,000, $605,000 is not a small chunk of change. Bluff has 11 educators. We need eight by the student numbers. So that's 260 using their average comp of 89. Then you do the students. There's a student services coordinator, which I not 100% sure what their full role is. That's kind of a questionable thing. But I not knowing 100% what their full function is, but it sounds like it's like an assistant. I cut that 76 and then once again on the  Penn  situation, another 20. So a total savings of 356. So then I go to the middle school. I kind of do the same thing, but I have to do it based off the assessments for the core classes. That's really the area that you can focus on because classes that are outside of that scope, you can't you can't judge because you can't judge the enrollments.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: But, you know, everybody needs to take the core courses. So when I did that, we have social studies in sixth grade, intro to government, one math teacher, two English

[R14847-459] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: 000. Then you go to your guidance. There's three guidance counselors in that building. That building only has a required need per the state of two. So that's $100,000 savings there. Now we have a highly compensated R.N. in that building at 122,000 total cost.
TEXT> So I think I could save 60,000 there. Grade 17 I believe that should be Esser funded, and I believe there was because I'm working off the red original budget. I believe there might have been a typo because I looked further on and it said an English teacher for seventh grade was funded outside, so I think there might have been a confusion there. But either way, taking out the grade 17 would save us 113,000, because my understanding, when the other deans were listed as funded outside the budget, that one was probably one that was  a misread. The education tech integrator is under a teacher. Don't quite understand what that is and how. So that's more of a question. But in that building the wall and I save 613,000 Stevens High School, the toughest building of them all to narrow down these money's reason, it's tough is because you have required electives so you really don't know who, and you're blending all your grades and your students, so you don't know how many English teachers you truly need.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: But honestly, after reviewing what I had working in the budget subcommittee, honestly, I thought it was the tightest budget and probably best one building from what I could tell

[R14847-460] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: toughest building of them all to narrow down these money's reason, it's tough is because you have required electives so you really don't know who, and you're blending all your grades and your students, so you don't know how many English teachers you truly need.
TEXT> But honestly, after reviewing what I had working in the budget subcommittee, honestly, I thought it was the tightest budget and probably best one building from what I could tell because once again, I don't know the exact enrollment numbers, how they work out per core courses, however, world languages were required to have two. And I think what we need to do is focus on Spanish and do v lax for the others due to enrollment rates. Nurse our the  situation again, I think that we could save some money there the 1990s doing the line items restorative justice which I believe was Esther funded. So that should be a savings of 94000. The student discipline coordinator is an Lo at 64,000. So the total savings I had at Stevens, as I said, I was pretty impressed with this building, was 282,000. That got us to a grand total of $2,206,000. Now, I believe I might not be 100% accurate, but if $300,000.50 in tax rate is that so I'm glad somebody. Okay, so using the wrong number. I still calculated a pretty good sized deduction. Now you go down to my least favorite line of them all which is the tech center in athletics.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: You cut those out of the budget you're saving roughly I believe that works out to another 1.6 million 600,000 of it is sports. And then roughly 1.1 is the

[R14847-497] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Bonnie, you had a yes' [834]; ' | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Bonnie, you had a yes.
TEXT> I'm going to stand up because they can't see back down there. So I agree that the teachers should get what they deserve and they should get this budget. It should be passed for them. I'm all for that. But I'm also for the school, for this building right here. The data from the New Hampshire Department of Education confirms that CTE programs improve graduation rates eight years after their expected graduation rate. Students who focused on Korea and technical education courses while in high school had higher median annual earnings earnings that students who did not focus on CTE courses in New Hampshire, students who concentrate on a CTE program graduate at an 8% higher rate than non CTE. So keep rates up there. Now the organizational study from Doctor Lapine and Doctor Anne Chocola Wilson that was dated in November, also known as the Luchini Report, mentioned some comments. And one of them, one of the paragraphs that says the Career and Technology Center appears to be a resource that could be used to benefit more students. There is a need to explore additional programs. Will labor data supports career opportunities, partnerships with business, industry and a community college, and granting students graduation credit, particularly in mathematics, science and English language arts. Through their career and technical programs.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Now, this tech center has really grown with what it's had so far the number of students. I'm going back to 2017 to 18 to this past this year. Now

[R14847-623] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: Average.
TEXT> Salary amount to get there. I think I laid a pretty good roadmap. Want to look at numbers that say that's about 20 children per class, and I'm having 8.1 and 12. I see some savings where we can become more efficient.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So I should just take a pro rata share of what you've put together and allocate it that way between elementary, middle and high school and use that roadmap as

[R14875-20] Hannah Petrin | Student Representative to the School Board (the chair: 'Thank you. Han | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: to be respectful of that. I need to be probably tightening the ship up a little bit and steering us better. So that is my goal for myself. And I just wanted to mention that tonight, so. That said, we're under the student rec report.
TEXT> This winter program is continuing as well. Students were able to select from a variety of activities for four mornings of fun. Auditions for the play, A Tribute to Broadway, will be held on February 13th for grades one and two, and February 4th for grades three through five. The 100th day of school is coming up and does not have a lot of fun activities planned. Maple is also starting the Winter and Richmond program. They also have a winter concert on February 22nd. Maple students also participated in the Ode to Milan play. Sports are going well at the middle school. The middle school is also participating in Respect Week, which is a statewide educational campaign on teen dating violence and sports are going well at the high school. The seniors just started auditions for the senior play, which will happen at the end of March, and the tech center is having a culinary lunch featuring a Taco Bell on February 10th at 1130 or 1230. Tickets are $8 and must be purchased in advance. February 22nd is the region ten meeting from 6 to 730 in the Goodrich Goodrich Community Room at the Tech Center on February 13th. Newport and Claremont Tech Centers are presenting to the ninth and 10th graders about career and technical education programs.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Any questions?

[R14875-25] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — onset of his ice hockey co-op present | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. No further questions or comments. All right. Thank you. Hannah. We're on to item number one under Discussion and action items. Which is the, Mr. Pratt is here to talk about, the varsity ice hockey. Is that. That was yours coming up.
TEXT> Good evening everyone.  What you have in front of you is that each year, students. So this agreement here would allow us to continue the hockey program at Stevens High School by lumping it in with Gomer and some other smaller schools that are in the same situation. By doing this, it allows us to keep  the hockey at the individual schools who don't have their own programs. And so that's that's the  what you have in front of you there.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So this essentially keeps our kids still our kids here in Claremont still playing hockey. It just needs our approval.

[R14875-40] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: savings, but we estimate that about 15% would be elementary staff reduction of the million dollars, 25% at the secondary level, and shifting teachers to another budget to title one entitle two would be about 20% in the behavioral assistance going to academic support specialists.
TEXT> That is  supported by the Esser grant that we already have for for a year,  with plans to move them into another,  sunset them out is another way that we would get the 40% remaining.  The that we tried to bullet what we best  could put in, you know, in the amount of time we had to prepare it,  we would preserve the neighborhood schools, transportation would be able to run in some cases, particularly going to the outlier really  early Childhood Center is currently here in the tech. If it was embedded, it would be easier to do that more organic extension of where kids would be ending up in the in the elementary schools,  there would be savings and increased capacity in the  the middle school. And Stevens  when you  combine electives that we have and also maximize the open seats that we currently have at the high school,  the grade eight at Stevens  increases  sections, electives and access for students in  in the Academy of Coach  approach.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Excuse me, separating elements of the building. It can assist and actually reduce some of the dropout rate that we had by kids having exposure and orientation sooner. And also

[R14875-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the middle school. And Stevens when you combine electives that we have and also maximize the open seats that we currently have at the high school, the grade eight at Stevens increases sections, electives and access for students in in the Academy of Coach approach.
TEXT> Excuse me, separating elements of the building. It can assist and actually reduce some of the dropout rate that we had by kids having exposure and orientation sooner.  And also  tech center access for students as part of the high school  so that they could take the introductory classes and kids would have more access to finish  as leaders.  And those are some of the reasons, and they're kind of bulleted on the other side, we need a continuation for five, six, seven. Of of the  Life skills and elementary program.  The, the element there would still be elementary elements to the fifth grade in the middle school, different types of  teaming and still have the focus, different types,  similar things with playgrounds and other things  as an in between measure and  very  and I think it's redundant on this slide actually with the other things that are on the left hand column. So I'll move move ahead. Sorry. Okay. So when we when we looked at the numbers overall the  entire FTE reduction reduction. And that's not necessarily the elimination of those positions. Some of those positions would move up to the other buildings would be above them. Thank you for.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We thought when we looked at the elementary classes in the class size impact. And again, moving from the left hand column is the current year. And then project projected

[R14875-42] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: ahead. Sorry. Okay. So when we when we looked at the numbers overall the entire FTE reduction reduction. And that's not necessarily the elimination of those positions. Some of those positions would move up to the other buildings would be above them. Thank you for.
TEXT> We thought  when we looked at the  elementary classes in the class size impact. And again, moving from  the left hand column is the current year. And then project projected is the right hand column. So the number of classes is a  level at bluff in the class size  would actually go down. It bluffed it still be 11, and it would go to 15 with a little bit of of increase of of  of size. And you can see the columns.  We had a problem. One of the issues that we had at bluff that made us start looking at this as we were doing the previous budget, was we needed to have another section, because this year we currently have 27 students in fifth grade at bluff, and it would balance that out  at Disney. You can see the the numbers as well. 14 going  to 13. The overall size would go up  by four. And you can see where the averages are. One of the things that we didn't follow, we felt as an administrative team that we couldn't endorse is going  much beyond 12 or 13 in the early  in the K in pre-K.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we wanted to stay that we still have concerns in. The principals will speak about those about the fourth grade growing as well. Maple, you can see the class

[R14875-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: almost double the sections that they have. So that a teacher in the high school teaches six sections. We're at the currently at the middle school. They have they have 12. So, so it's, you know, 20, 24 versus 12. So you gain more sections.
TEXT> Some of the capacity. And I just tried to put snapshots in here. I know it's tough to absorb this. We look at this all the time. And I realized people aren't as familiar with it. But what you see on this slide in the far right column, that is the total of those are just some sections of classes currently. Right now, the semester at, at at  Stevens in the number of,  number of students the teachers teach for the whole semester. So you can see some of them range from 19 to 46. The only reason I was putting that in there is to demonstrate that there's room in those classes  to show that we could we could add some  students in there. Some of those are core subjects like English. Some of those are gym classes, but there is capacity in the currently in the in the schedule. You would also add additional teachers that would would create more capacity. There's approximately 125 kids in the eighth grade class that would be moving up. We feel comfortable that we'd be able to absorb that, and those students would also have access to other  classes in which they could begin to to gain and  acclimate to a high school curriculum as well. Again, these are just samples of other types of classes of what the numbers are. This is a tech center class.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the math class. These are the actual schedules that were shown in that list of numbers. And again, this whole presentation is online right now. World history classes

[R14875-45] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: would also have access to other classes in which they could begin to to gain and acclimate to a high school curriculum as well. Again, these are just samples of other types of classes of what the numbers are. This is a tech center class.
TEXT> This is the math class. These are the actual schedules that were shown in that list of numbers. And again, this whole presentation is online right now. World history classes with smaller numbers.  11 in the class. Different types of  that's a biology teacher. What we really like to see that I hadn't looked at in a while, that is exciting and also an opportunity for this. I want to focus on the arts  improvement. We've already been sharing staff and going back and forth with planning between the middle and high school for both the band and chorus, as well as the drama program. It's been a lot of positive traction there, and when you look at the numbers that we have right now,  we could have even more. But we could also still share staff between the middle and high school. So for example, the the,  the chorus teacher and the band teacher could go back and forth so that they kind of loop with the same sets of kids growing the program, sustaining the program through the high school. So we're excited about that opportunity. And again, same numbers in the drama program, which are very, very positive.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're excited about that. You see in the next slide how we have some teachers. And again, this is, this is, a business teacher at the high school and absolutely

[R14875-46] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: go back and forth so that they kind of loop with the same sets of kids growing the program, sustaining the program through the high school. So we're excited about that opportunity. And again, same numbers in the drama program, which are very, very positive.
TEXT> We're excited about that.  You see in the next slide how we have some teachers.  And again, this is, this is, a business teacher at the high school and absolutely  loaded with students. And when we spoke about the other,  math,  elective,  the financial literacy that's going to be added, you again, you could you could get a lot more  students in those  electives as well, as well as other ones that might come up from the middle school. So I just wanted to give examples of that. This, for example, is an intro to design class in the middle school. You see the same type of, of of enrollment in those, and those are similar. I just look for a like course that might translate up. And that that was one that that just came to mind. Computer classes as well at the middle school, similar schedule. And  this last slide is just right, right out of power school with the exact numbers very similar to what you saw on the list view. So that's that's the general overview of that. In.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and that's why so in general, you know did do do I think it's a, I think it's a good solution for the time that we had to put

[R14875-48] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member — onset of her question about traffic and the poli | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and also from from our own staff, from our own administrators. And I can definitely defer to them. They all wanted to be here to say their piece. So. I offer offer that as well. So also to answer any questions that you may have.
TEXT> I have a question. Is going to be some disturbance between Broad Street and up here, with more children getting out at the same time and people being moving around, do we have to run that by the police department for safety purposes?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I'm not?

[R14875-50] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (not named on this recording — the only member of  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So I'm not?
TEXT> Well, they'll be because you're seeing their children, fewer children in the elementary. They'll be here in the middle in middle school and then here they'll be at Stevens. So that's going to change the flow of traffic coming in and out and the congestion. Do we need to run that by the police department? We offer safety purposes.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We do. We. So we consult with the police often. And we would with this same thing with fire as well as to which students we could have, what floors,

[R14875-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Bonnie Miles: be here in the middle in middle school and then here they'll be at Stevens. So that's going to change the flow of traffic coming in and out and the congestion. Do we need to run that by the police department? We offer safety purposes.
TEXT> We do. We. So we consult with the police  often. And we would with this same thing with  fire as well as to which students we could have, what floors, what configurations would work in the like. In terms of the middle school, that would be the middle school would be the same amount of kids. There would be another 125 kids, excuse me,  in the high school. So,  so that that,  it it wouldn't be as impactful here, I think in the principals could talk about it as well as some of the things that they see.  A couple ideas that that came up today from Principal Romeo. I  hadn't thought through that in depth. And they were,  substantial, you know, so  but but they can they can speak to those as well. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Excuse me. So a quick question about middle school. I'm looking at CMS grade six and there's six sections of kids. So how many how many sections does an English

[R14875-52] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (his motion to accept the agenda falls in this clu | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: as some of the things that they see. A couple ideas that that came up today from Principal Romeo. I hadn't thought through that in depth. And they were, substantial, you know, so but but they can they can speak to those as well. So.
TEXT> Excuse me. So a quick question about middle school.  I'm looking at CMS grade six and there's six sections of kids. So how many how many sections does an English teacher teach in grade six. Do they teach 4 or 5.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So currently they they teach five. So they have they on a typical year this year, with the with the academic centers and with the increased kind of getting back

[R14875-53] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Excuse me. So a quick question about middle school. I'm looking at CMS grade six and there's six sections of kids. So how many how many sections does an English teacher teach in grade six. Do they teach 4 or 5.
TEXT> So currently they they teach five. So they have they on a typical year this year,  with the  with the academic centers and with the increased kind of  getting back at student skills and interventions, they're teaching  three classes in the wind block. Typically they would teach five.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Who teaches the sixth class. Then if there's because it's six six sections. So how do they I guess what I'm asking.

[R14875-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: title one for the restructuring of moving fifth grade and eighth grade to different buildings, and the impact on students who have, I and special and special needs, especially the students who require Aids or one on one aids or one on couple few aids.
TEXT> Sure. So for the special ed needs and Mr. Chairman as well. But the the IEP follows this the student. So if a kid goes up everything that they need would would follow in terms of the number of  interventions assistance one to ones what what have you. So that that that always flows in a similar fashion year to year. In terms of  the title one impact,  I think that would be minimal. We did look at the  free and  reduced numbers in the assignment of classes, with  Luft being our longest standing  title, one highest free and reduced  numbers following that staffing. I believe the impact at the middle school  is is also  it would not be impacted. It's it's a shift of a year. It's more of a catchment of where they are. But if we had to reassign teachers following that like we do even in other years, if there should be a shift in that, it's been pretty steady  for years.  But I don't I don't see that as being a big shift so far.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Would the, the with the classroom at Maple be changing for title one or the location of where title one is housed within Maple change under this new plan?

[R14875-71] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I don't know if that's the heart of the question.
TEXT> I have a multitude of questions for usual.  And so I kind of brace yourself.  First of all, I think it's important for the public to know what numbers that we were dealing with and things that actually were driving, some of my decision making and some historical data. So the New Hampshire Department of Education  recently came out with a press release talking about the increases in and what it was costing per student to educate a child in New Hampshire and in Claremont. The  cost per pupil rose. Our enrollment has dropped since the year 2,024.6%, and our cost per pupil has increased 57.2%, and that is adjusted for inflation. I did get a question about that from our community, a community member, whether or not that was adjusted for inflation. I confirmed the Doe. One of the questions that I had, I asked  Mr. Tempesta, is what is the makeup of our district now compared to what was the makeup of our district, say, in the year 20, 15 years or so ago? Do we have a higher concentration of free or reduced lunch students, which would tell us whether or not the matrix in our classroom has changed, or at least be a good indicator? And the answer to that question is no. So, and I was forwarded  you got that from the state today, correct?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Well, we pulled it. D Skinner our free and reduced and a lunch specialist pulled that historically. But yeah, it is on the it's October 1st information that's on the

[R14875-75] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: we going to make sure we can provide the salaries for those folks that are absolutely critical for our district to have? And we're looking at probably well over $100,000 per person, including their benefits. So this is not this is not small dollars here.
TEXT> And and also we also had really did not have a good understanding of what the minimum minimum requirements were  by the state. And in additionally, the ones that we were provided at the last meeting have actually changed. And they've actually the the minimum numbers have are higher. So  in kindergarten, kindergarten to 225 students or fewer per educator learning level, 3 to 5, 30, 30 students or fewer per educator and middle school to high school 30 students, students and fewer per educator. Looking at our new matrix, we're not even coming anywhere close to even meeting the minimum standards. We are well below the minimum standards on any metric, on any grade level, except I think I think we are touching 30 in some of our classrooms in middle and high school. I correct with that, but.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's only 2024.

[R14875-79] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Actually was a year long single thing.
TEXT> Do not have those those restrictions. The other questions that I had that I'm hoping to have the answer today is,  does our achievement data show that Claremont students at attend elementary school that have historically had smaller class sizes perform in a statistically significant way, in a better way? And the answer with a scatter plot and everything that I received was the answer was no. The other question I asked and I don't I didn't get a response to this, you know, via email. But will changing elementary schools to pre-K to four allow for more supports in the classroom for the same dollar amount? I don't.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So if if we move from a k five to pre-K four, pre-K will have more supports because they'll be in an elementary school instead of at the tech. The

[R14875-80] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'a question for Mike' an | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: answer was no. The other question I asked and I don't I didn't get a response to this, you know, via email. But will changing elementary schools to pre-K to four allow for more supports in the classroom for the same dollar amount? I don't.
TEXT> So if if we move from a k five to pre-K four, pre-K will have more supports because they'll be in an elementary school instead of at the tech.  The grades 1 to 4 will not get more support. They'll maintain the same amount of support because the the support needs stay with the students. And so that would remain the same. But pre-K would benefit from that arrangement. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Would we have enough room with the new configuration to provide universal pre-K services in the future? This is one of the drivers of the reconfiguration thought process was, is

[R14875-81] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: of at the tech. The grades 1 to 4 will not get more support. They'll maintain the same amount of support because the the support needs stay with the students. And so that would remain the same. But pre-K would benefit from that arrangement. Okay.
TEXT> Would we have enough room with the new configuration to provide universal pre-K services in the future? This is one of the drivers of the reconfiguration thought process was, is that  as every educator in the room would attest to that early childhood quality, high quality, early childhood education, that's critical. It's got to be high quality. Early childhood education  does more for graduation rates and and reducing special ed costs and keeping kids from being held back than any single thing, any single intervention. And so that is a question that I had is could we potentially, with this new configuration, have enough space to be able to provide universal pre-K?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, we think there'd be there would be room to do that in the future. It would require additional funds, but it would, it would be the room there.

[R14875-83] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah, we think there'd be there would be room to do that in the future. It would require additional funds, but it would, it would be the room there.
TEXT> Okay. And so I think those were my big questions.  And and also there is a disagreement and I've read a ton of stuff on this because I was really torn up about the idea of increasing  classroom size. And there is the evidence is really mixed on this. There are folks in the camp that, you know, there's a lot of data out there that supports that certain number of certain number of students per classroom are critical. And then there are there is a wealth of data out there that actually says you can be stealing more important resources from students by trying to  buy, not being able to afford other services. So we're pushing services out by increasing the multiple layers of costs. For instance, you have to have more classrooms, you have to have more support personnel like,  human resources interventions. And it's very difficult right now to find teachers. So if you create a structural, a structure, a classroom structure where you you need to have a lot more teachers and it's really, really hard to find more teachers, which is where we're at. Having fewer classes, classrooms actually increases the likelihood that we'll have a teacher in every classroom that's not a new grad from somewhere. So those those are the my my driving factors for supporting this budget ultimately, and the configuration that was put forward.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You mentioned.

[R14875-93] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — answering the preschool adminis | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christina (surname not stated): any language entering the preschool environment. So, I think being in an elementary school, we can get a little bit more creative about how we can service these students and what preschool can look like. I think Ben has my notes. If I missed anything.
TEXT> You hit all the lead points. Yeah. One thing. You can. Align the curriculum a little better, you know, and so that we are, you know, perhaps improving our, our pre-K students for transition into kindergarten. But, yeah, the other thing would be like just,  I think you mentioned nurses. Did you say that already having a nurse, having a secretary building?
NEXT> Christina (surname not stated): Yeah. Amazing. Having lunch in the building would be amazing. These are little, you know, headaches throughout our day that just take a lot of time for our educators and

[R14875-101] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: lot of factors to that. I'll. The other thing, I'll be honest, I joke all the time that I'd love to have an infant program nearby as well, because when there's an infant around, nobody misbehaves because we wouldn't want to upset the baby, right?
TEXT> Younger students bring out the best in older students, and I know at all three of the elementary schools, we do a lot to partner younger and older. So again, we're not just enriching the lives of preschoolers. We're enriching the lives of our own elementary students as well. So I'll get us started with elementary and some of the benefits we see there of our fifth graders moving to the middle school, they'd have, again, additional opportunities. What other opportunities can we afford them? Students that are ready would have access to some advanced classes or some,  you know, being able to join classes that are of their strength and again, pushing them forward where we can. Some additional cell opportunities, such as their advisory program.  Other opportunities in general. Different unified arts Stem lab opportunities to learn more coding, all kinds of those things. The Pod approach that that you saw  on the screen a little bit really is a great transitional model for students that traditionally in an elementary school, they work with their classroom teacher as they move older, you know, through older grades, they have to get used to working with multiple teachers. A two teacher pod is a great transition approach to working further through that,  access to additional arts programs, drama programs, music programs, after school programs, those are things we have versions of them at the elementary level.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: The middle school has been able to take that and add to them, and fifth graders would only benefit from that. You want. To act great.

[R14875-110] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (the chair: 'I want to ask Mr. Rome | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: If you don't mind?
TEXT> I, we talked a little bit about this and I could start with some some thoughts.  You have to kind of change a little bit of the makeup of the middle school. Just think about library books. Right? We have to get things that are appropriate. And I know we have grants to offer a lot of the reading initiatives. Talking. Steal your thunder. But stealing to talk about that  a little bit of the actual the grounds. Right. Looking at do we need and should we bring in playgrounds. Do we have to bring in Foursquare and Gaga pits and all those other things that we don't have at the middle school? So I see that as an opportunity and also as a challenge that those are things we need to to talk about. This is something that I thought about on my way over, and I'm going to just mention it. If this were to happen, we would would incorporate roughly 250 new students, right? The fourth grade going into the fifth and the current fifth, who are not used to getting up and being at school at 720 in the morning. So there's a thought there.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: What does that mean? What does that need to look at? You mentioned about the sort of the configuration of everyone emptying into that that area. I think a consideration

[R14875-111] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (the chair: 'I want to ask Mr. Rome | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Romeo: this were to happen, we would would incorporate roughly 250 new students, right? The fourth grade going into the fifth and the current fifth, who are not used to getting up and being at school at 720 in the morning. So there's a thought there.
TEXT> What does that mean? What does that need to look at? You mentioned about the sort of the configuration of everyone emptying into that that area. I think a consideration is what do we do with the time in which middle school starts with the departure? How do we exit out of the building? How do we enter into the building? So those are logistical things to think about.  And I also think understanding and building the trust immediately, that is the that is going to be paramount in all of this. And that's why I'm talking about sending teams down to the elementary school to spend days with students, with teachers understanding what happens in classrooms and opening ourselves up to families at the elementary school so they can come in and ask questions so they can tour over the summer. Having a summer program that may be just an introductory program. So those are things just looking. I mean, right off the bat, I mean, there's so many. But that's a couple of things logistically just thinking about.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[R14875-115] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> I was curious if Mr. Pratt could speak to what I think is going to be one of the primary concerns is the eighth graders moving up to the high school, and  the developmental differences in how we're going to support those students in an environment where there are very mature students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. As the the you know, getting the eighth grade is up to the high school. I think there is a lot of benefits I've seen, I've been through this

[R14875-119] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: school to a high school, what's here or anywhere else that now the teachers in the building so we can align our curriculums more, we can, we can look at where they end up and where they begin now, because I know that's a lot.
TEXT> Every year we have those transition meetings with middle school and high school, and a lot of times they're still, you know, we we think they should be going in a certain academic area, but it just doesn't match up. So it allows us to bridge that gap of having the eighth grade in the building.  And, and having more, more resources for, access to the high school teachers in the middle school teachers,  some of the, some of the cons it's it'll be, you know, if we move to this direction next year, that means half the school really is going to be middle school students with a in, you know, coming up to the middle school, you know, so those there's going to be a lot of unknowns there.  But one of the other best things I think we have is our upperclassmen student population. In the short time I've been here and I've been in a lot of high schools, I think the biggest effect we're going to see for the eighth grade is coming in is the role models and the examples that the upperclassmen will set for the eighth grade students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And we have a tremendous student body. And, I'm proud of where they are and where they continue to grow. And I think just having the eighth graders see that

[R14875-127] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member (the tech center director answers her visioning-co | 2023-02-01
PREV> Steven Horsky: And I appreciate the diligence of everybody doing it. So that's what I have to say about that.
TEXT> This is a question for  Mike. Mike,  and I guess the both both the middle school and high school principals, where in this, in this new restructuring that we're proposing because of the budget cuts and with the eighth grade moving up and the fifth grade moving up, and the way the high school is structured now, where do you see or do you see any leverage points to increase opportunities for our high achieving students? This is kind of like picking a cherry right now, but for our high achieving students at Stevens,  specifically AP courses and, and and more rigorous electives that would make them competitive candidates to top ranked schools. I'm just wondering if you see any leverage points to increase those opportunities in the next three years. Say.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I think there's huge opportunities there. But before, because a lot of times, in middle schools in general, is that for these students who want to excel as much

[R14875-129] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair — onset or mid-sentence fragment of her own re | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: to major in. But I think there's there's there's more opportunities with that than there are in the current model. We're able to raise the bar for kids, as groups and as individuals. We'll look we're able to personalize their learning more at that stage.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. Just one more to pay you back off of what you were saying. So what I'm hoping you'll you'll say to me is that if what I'm hoping will be your answer is if we can compress a lot of these classes for some of your high achieving students into the three year graduation period, I'm seeing an opportunity to actually, in the senior year, do dual enrollment and  running start courses to really kick start some of these people to get, you know, college credit.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So absolutely.

[R14875-132] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's the case. Then this is I.
TEXT> Know and that's something that  before all this came out, I spoke to  superintendent and pastor and assistant superintendent about, you know, whether we do this or not. What would it look like in regards to putting a three point for any student who wants to graduate in three years for these opportunities, for these real world experiences to, you know, it'd be my dream to whether we offer it in the current model and work with the different colleges so kids can eventually graduate from Stevens High School with an associate's degree. That's right. Or this also gives more opportunities to have more students take career centers classes for the ones who want to go right out into the workforce. I think there's a lot of opportunities for eighth grade all through 12th grade. You know, I know other anxieties for the for the for the current teachers and administration that at the middle school now, yeah, it is going to be a lot of work. But I think in the long run. It's something that we need to look at, whether we do it this year or down the road, I don't think it's a matter of if it happens, it's when it happens.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: I have a follow up question. Does I really like the idea of students being able to take college courses in their senior year, especially college courses that would help

[R14875-133] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member — onset of / thanks after her own question | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: to be a lot of work. But I think in the long run. It's something that we need to look at, whether we do it this year or down the road, I don't think it's a matter of if it happens, it's when it happens.
TEXT> I have a follow up question. Does I really like the idea of students being able to take college courses in their senior year, especially college courses that would help shave some semesters off if they are pursuing a four year degree.  In that case, if there is a dual enrollment opportunity in their senior year that would be funded by the district, it wouldn't put a cost burden to pay for River Valley credit hours  for their senior student. What it.
NEXT> Mike Koski: The state offers two Stem courses for free at any community college while they're in high school. Okay. And then River Valley, excuse me is also agreed to work with

[R14875-138] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: but I can only speak firsthand from the from the high school, such a dedicated, dedicated group of teachers that come to work every day for the same reasons we all do, because we we like where we are and we like what we do.
TEXT> And the students on top of that. Like I said, I've I've been in the urban cities and I've been in rural areas. I've been so impressed with the student population and how they step up every time and, and how much I've seen them grow in a short time. And I think, you know, we don't want to do anything that damages that. But I think this is going to give us an opportunity for all growth.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. One more question. This is actually a housekeeping question for Richard. I didn't have an opportunity to cross-reference this, but with the collective bargaining, the note A in

[R14875-161] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1 — Stevens High School staff member (self-iden | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mimi Rhines: a budget out of nowhere doesn't help with that from a citizens perspective and a trust perspective, because now we're position, we're hearing plans of moving great districts around, which, for the record, I'm not totally opposed to it. I'm not as a staff member.
TEXT> I went to an ad  which is seven through 12. So I've been through it as a student, so I'm open to it. But it came out of nowhere, it feels like. So it's frustrating that for those of us in the district who live here, these plans have just been like, no offense, rushed in a week because of a cut of $1 million that was made and there was no discussion of it at the last couple of meetings. So for some of you guys were thinking about it should have been discussed. Yeah. Can they ask a question without my time going, okay, that's the first part of my thing.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So you like me to answer.

[R14875-163] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1 — Stevens High School staff member (self-iden | 2023-02-01
PREV> Steven Horsky: So you like me to answer.
TEXT> But I have I have a second part if you want me to go. Okay. My second part is with the grade distribution. I'm not opposed to eighth grade at the high school. I think there's a way it could work.  I went through as a student. I have concerns, Mr. Pratt, I have concerns. We've talked about it,  but I'm not totally opposed to it. I haven't been in fifth grade in a while, but I feel like fifth grade is kind of like the last year of being a kid. You know, at the elementary schools. These little snack time in fifth grade. Yeah. Okay. You still snack time. You still have recess on playground equipment, Frank. You're right. So I feel like moving them from the little cocoon of elementary schools to us is like throwing a baby in cold water. Here you go.  So that's more of my concern. But again, I don't work elementary schools with kids, so that's just me as an outsider looking in. And my worry is with this plan, let's say this money goes back in. All right. Let's say next week they vote to put  1.8 million back in the budget. And let's say it passes. Okay. So everything's hunky dory. We get the contract bunnies back in. Does this plan still happen for next year?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I don't think we would be able to reduce the class sizes to allow pre-K in. That's good.

[R14875-175] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1 — Stevens High School staff member (self-iden | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Purpose is cutting.
TEXT> I I'm just trying to the full picture. I'm not trying to push it back or anything. I'm just trying to understand the full picture. Because again, between million dollars being cut like that and then grade levels, we moved around and 30 kids in the classroom, it's a lot to take in. So, you know, step by step by step. So that's all those are my comments. Other people responding to my first comment or no.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I, I guess I can speak to for me, what allowed me to be able to vote positively for the reduction is, to kind of piggyback off of the

[R14875-190] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3, 592 Redwater Brook Road (self-identified) —  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: And next meeting I believe is when we'll have some curriculum information for you. It's happening in the background. It's not being neglected.
TEXT> Arlene Hawkins, Ward 3592 Redwater Brook road.  I've read the organization study report that was commissioned by the SEO, and that report reinforced our problem. And it's been stated here about high teacher turnover. A positive first step toward reversing this trend is that new contract, this board negotiated with our teachers. Perhaps the board would look at a consistent salary increase for the central office administrators, with the teachers to align with them. That's my first point. A second positive step is the move to, as stated in the report, greater clarification, consistency, and efficiency in the area of human resources throughout the district. I think that's great that that's being addressed. And while this certainly is a need to ease the tax burden on the Claremont residence, does the reduction in the educational budget and the restructuring in this manner and in the short time, and help our school district? I heard from the administrators, and I think it's great that you guys are all here,  our parent concerns being heard about this new restructuring. Are we maintaining our commitment to our staff and the commitment to our schools by rushing into this? The physical classrooms that I heard are crowded, and if we're increasing class sizes, will students have opportunities to move around within their own classroom?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And have we looked at certifications for teachers, specifically middle school, moving into the high school, and how how is that impacted? All of this requires time to listen, to

[R14875-202] Lisa Holtz | Public commenter — Claremont resident and elementary school teacher (s | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'm sorry to interrupt, but that was your three minutes.
TEXT> Okay, well, I've sent all of you, all of the board members, your  this letter and,  it's far more there's far more to a child than money and moving to different places. It's just more complex than that. They are complex people.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Yeah. Red and black. When you hear the. Jingling sound. That's. Yeah. Thank you.

[R14875-204] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — onset of her remarks ('Good evening') | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Yeah. Red and black. When you hear the. Jingling sound. That's. Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. I  am  a former student from this district, and I am a mother of three children, a preschooler, a retained first grader, and an incoming eighth grader. She's in seventh grade now, and I actually have to agree with her with the,
NEXT> Michael Petrin: One of information, name and ward, please.

[R14875-213] Raquel (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — fragments of her self-identification and of | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you for sharing those difficult. Is Mr.. Romeo still here? The middle school. Hi, Raquel.
TEXT> Ward two I am also. A. PTO president at Maple. Ave in town. I. Have two twin fifth graders this year who will be going to the middle school no matter what you decide.  But I'm going to just touch on a couple of points.  Jen presented something that is one of my main concerns. I don't see where we're going to build in guidance counselors, where we're going to have the support for students who aren't socially, emotionally ready to jump. Not saying that it's going to be every kid, but I see that there's going to be an increase in that. Kids, I am a proud I am a pure product of this town where I went to North Street School. We then changed that Dessner to fifth and sixth grade. I had a  duo,  third and fourth grade, where my teacher taught two grade levels. Then we jumped from no longer Dinard, fifth and sixth. The middle school became the sixth grade wing. My class was the first class through that wing. And then we went to high school. We went from seven period classroom  a day to block scheduling, which was not, you know, our of the norm. That was what a lot of schools were pushing.
NEXT> Raquel (surname not stated): And I can tell you as a student that grew up through this with a range of classmates, those of us supported at home, those of us growing up in

[R14875-220] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2 — Stevens High School class of 2017 (self-ide | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mary Lovett: they fund it. So if we were talking about our vision community or our vision committee of what they discussed, trying to look at these grant opportunities to fund it, because as I mentioned in a past meeting, I, I try to prioritize alternative thinking.
TEXT> How can we collaborate with community colleges such as River Valley, who has a great childhood education program and possibly create a partnership where seminars are used at our school so we decrease funding of staff. But in this conversation we have to consider quality over quantity. So  a student is more than a number in a budget. But what they are able to provide in our community and in life, many of my graduates of class of 2017 still live in Claremont because I went to Sugar Valley Tech Center and they took these courses that really prepared them for life. Whereas me and my friends who have 1 or 2 degrees are struggling to find a job because we created an influx in the market. And I sent an email to the board,  I'm not sure if anyone took me up on visiting a school, but the minimum requirements are not enough. I was in a school this past year, and the behavior I saw is not reflective of 20 or 2000 or even ten years ago, or when I graduated.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: The Covid pandemic has created a precedent that is unseen and social emotional learning, and these teachers are trying to talk to you about it. But I feel like we

[R14875-221] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2 — Stevens High School class of 2017 (self-ide | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mary Lovett: if anyone took me up on visiting a school, but the minimum requirements are not enough. I was in a school this past year, and the behavior I saw is not reflective of 20 or 2000 or even ten years ago, or when I graduated.
TEXT> The Covid pandemic has created a precedent that is unseen and social emotional learning, and these teachers are trying to talk to you about it. But I feel like we just keep going back to what is the minimum requirement. That can't be the conversation. Talking about shifting grades or talking about developmental stages of mind. So we're going from concrete of stages of development to formal  operational. Part of this is being able to recognize identity and irreversibility. You know, think about these hypothetical examples and foresight into the future problems. So if you're saying that a fifth grader can possibly do that in middle school, and an eighth grader can do that in high school, I just want to remind you of where you were at 12 or 13 versus at 18, 17, 19. I mean, I think this could work if we put some serious thought into it, but we have we really planned enough for this in a week to think about five grades in one high school that I went to, talking about 25 kids to a classroom, when I just observed a class of 20, and the room was unmanageable because the teachers are overworked, underpaid, understaffed.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: We're saying we can rely on paraprofessionals, but if you looked on your hiring website, you don't have enough to try to cut classrooms and expect behavior to be okay

[R14875-228] Laura Snelling | Public commenter, Ward 3 — school nurse at Maple Avenue School; her se | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: So I had. I see him behind the podium there.
TEXT> Laura Snelling, Ward three I'm also a school nurse at Maple Avenue. I see it all. I've seen it all in a different district that I used to work at. I came to Claremont because I wanted to work in the same wonderful district that my kids go to school in, however, would. The proposal is I don't want my kids to be in the school district. I do not want my 13 year old daughter at a high school with 1819 year old boys, with what my daughter in, who's a freshman, is experiencing and exposed to at this point in time. However, I fully support pre-K going to elementary schools, fully support it. This is a very much needed,  change that we really need to implement.  It it's more seamless.  Kids tend to do better overall. I came from a school where we did have pre-K,  two sections of about 30 students every day.  And their transition to kindergarten first, even to second, going to a different building was that much easier because they they started that foundational education, inside the elementary school,  I fully support fifth grade moving to the middle school.
NEXT> Laura Snelling: However, I think what we need to find is can we do a fifth sixth grade team? Can we do a seventh eighth grade team at the middle school and

[R14875-229] Laura Snelling | Public commenter, Ward 3 — school nurse at Maple Avenue School (self-i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Laura Snelling: of about 30 students every day. And their transition to kindergarten first, even to second, going to a different building was that much easier because they they started that foundational education, inside the elementary school, I fully support fifth grade moving to the middle school.
TEXT> However, I think what we need to find is can we do a fifth sixth grade team? Can we do a seventh eighth grade team at the middle school and keep that eighth grade at the middle school?  Because what's the impact of middle school sports now that we move eighth grade up to high school? What's the impact potential in varsity and junior varsity if they're competing against eighth graders? I think that we have a lot of  teams in the middle school between six seventh and eighth.  Even though sixth graders are capable of participating in recreation sports,  moving to a fifth sixth grade model with a seventh and eighth grade model, you could then have fifth and sixth solely on recreation sports.  Sixth grade could be pulled up in, say, lake volleyball or some sport that doesn't quite have the numbers or cheerleading because they do do competitive. However, your  middle school teams would be based off of seventh and eighth.  There's a problem at the high school where a lot of kids are seeming to drop out of sports,  because they may have been in eighth grade on or seventh grade on a B team, and they don't think that I can go to a high school and make a high school sports team.
NEXT> Laura Snelling: So would that then change the dynamic? Also, is there a cost savings where we're running an a, B team versus an A, B, C or even D teams, sometimes

[R14875-233] Michelle (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — her self-identification | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Michelle, be in Ward two.  I'm just going to say flat out I am not as organized on my phone with emails and things, but I just. Want to acknowledge that my husband, rod also did quick calculations. He's the one that emailed you today, Heather, that you responded to. We  had the same as Candy. Found that our cost per pupil is actually lower than other surrounding districts, and if you look for  inflation, it looks like we have a 14% increase instead of a 57% increase. So I want to make sure that we're looking at the numbers.  I also want to say that I have  preschooler, a third grader and a fifth grader. I fully support preschool as well.  He is not an identified student, and he is growing socially, emotionally in the school district and would not really be prepared for kindergarten without  having the preschool experience he's having now. With that being said, with this model that I saw in the presentation, I saw one preschool room in each of the classrooms in the elementary school looked like it was 24 students, with 12 in the morning and 12 in the afternoon. I heard  Christina mentioned tonight that there's 26 referrals coming in in three months. Can we even next year if we go for this proposal?
NEXT> Michelle (surname not stated): Cover least restrictive environment for those preschool students who will be entering our district? Are we going to cover that in three classrooms that are moving forward? We're looking at

[R14875-234] Michelle (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — parent of a preschooler, a third grader and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michelle (surname not stated): in the elementary school looked like it was 24 students, with 12 in the morning and 12 in the afternoon. I heard Christina mentioned tonight that there's 26 referrals coming in in three months. Can we even next year if we go for this proposal?
TEXT> Cover least restrictive environment for those preschool students who will be entering our district? Are we going to cover that in three classrooms that are moving forward? We're looking at increasing class sizes. I personally don't think that if you even put the teacher salary raises in the budget and then you increase their workload, that's that's not a raise anymore. That's that's compensation for them.  I also,  I have been on the restructuring committees. I think you all know, for three years. This came up in 2020. I heard a comment tonight, my Kosky, that  this has sort of been in the discussion for a little bit. And Heather,  a comment that came that this was not a surprise didn't seem like, you know, if you knew the million dollar cut was going to come and was going to lead to a cut of the increase in class sizes. And I just right now I would want full transparency from the board and the administration. Is this another way to put forward a restructuring proposal that evidence says 3 to 5 years takes to move it forward, and we're saying that we did it in 6 to 7 days. I don't understand why we can't put together a real committee with a purpose, with community members, with teachers, with parents, and really look at evidence.
NEXT> Michelle (surname not stated): I have asked for three years for the evidence for the school district to provide me with why we are doing this. Where is the data showing that this is

[R14875-240] Molly DeLuca | Public commenter, Ward 2 — onset and mid-sentence fragments of her rem | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Hello. My name is Molly DeLuca. I'm from Ward two. I was also on the restructuring committee recently. And, I agree that we definitely need some more. Time. To come up with a well-thought out plan. I have a second and a fourth grader.  So I'm definitely concerned. And one of my main concerns is moving my fourth grader to the middle school next year.  I have serious concerns with what I've heard about what's going on in the middle school with all the behavior issues, and I guess I kind of want to shelter him a little bit. So that is definitely a primary concern. And I also want to address that. My son is in fourth grade this year and he has had the worst year. And he is a brilliant child. He's he's very smart, but he has a lot of  disruptive behaviors in his class and he cannot learn.  My husband and I are actually teaching him at home. We work full time jobs, and I just don't see how you can increase class sizes. And I should also say that my kids go to Bluff Elementary.  So I know we have a little bit more  of a disadvantage with our population, but it is a serious concern. And  even he has acted up in his class. And I'm like, that is not your behavior.
NEXT> Molly DeLuca: And it's, you know, he's bored. He's seeing that these kids can disrupt and he's trying to get attention. So he's being disruptive. So I just I don't see how

[R14875-257] Raquel (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — onset and mid-sentence fragments of her que | 2023-02-01
PREV> Scott Pope: Yeah okay. Sounds good. Thank you.
TEXT> Two quick questions. Increase anywhere. Or board. To,  a couple of questions. As far as athletics goes,  if we are  moving kids up and we play another school that doesn't meet that age group, I know in other programs those students can't play because we'd be putting, you know, different aged kids up against those students.  For example, my kids have done the mini cardinal,  football program. Our fourth and fifth grade players can play. Our sixth grade players can't play certain games because of the age group of the other towns were playing. So that's one question as far as how will athletics work and  how will we determine can eighth graders play at middle school level? Because we technically would be playing other districts that would have those age groups playing.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: What's the. Other question?

[R14875-259] Raquel (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — PTO president at Maple Avenue School, paren | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: What's the. Other question?
TEXT> I guess another question of my own is that, increasing class sizes. I don't know if you guys have been in some of these classrooms we purchased with Covid money, new desks that have the chair connected to the desk when they're an odd, not even a trapezoid shape. I don't know what they are. I'm not a math teacher,  but. You know. I don't know what they they aren't a shape that exists in the math world, but when you put them up together, you have corners that stick out or a chair that sticks out. And these classes that are already full, I've been in them. I can tell you this is how they walk around each other. You can't even take a full circle to put your jacket on. You can't have anything at your desk besides your required materials for that  class.  Kids are literally carrying from fifth grade. They rotate and they are carrying their stuff in their hands because there's no room to bring a bag anywhere with you. So, and I also know our school districts, housing tables, chairs and things off site. We probably could find $1 billion if we had a huge yard sale.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: I just want to make a comment though. Is that. Meeting your eyes? Ward one? Officer Simons had to leave, but she wanted me to make sure that she. I

[R14875-260] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1 — onset of her second turn (continuous with t | 2023-02-01
PREV> Raquel (surname not stated): carrying their stuff in their hands because there's no room to bring a bag anywhere with you. So, and I also know our school districts, housing tables, chairs and things off site. We probably could find $1 billion if we had a huge yard sale.
TEXT> I just want to make a comment though. Is that. Meeting your eyes? Ward one?  Officer Simons had to leave, but she wanted me to make sure that she. I expressed her concern for the staff and all of this and how staff feels about this as as I said, it's rushed.  We learned about it from an email from last week, and then we had a presentation by Mr. Pratt. Was it Friday? Friday? You know, so the staff really time to digest this. Like this is a group of people and parents can be people who want to know about it. But again, this has been rushed. And I share the concern that Crystal has and others have that the uncertainty couldn't happen for the last three years because there are so many things to work out. And it's been a week and this is like restructuring, like the soft launch of it. And so that's, I think, our shared concern. But she was concerned as a staff and I can answer the  athletics question if you want me to.  Students get four years of  the eligibility. So eighth graders would play at the eighth grade. So even if they're housed the high school, their sports would remain at CMS. So I could answer that question at least.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: One point. Before. Can I just make one point. Before.

[R14875-263] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair — onset or mid-sentence fragment of her own re | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> I, I, I. I don't think I don't know if people know what the numbers are going to be in elementary school.  I  have a feeling that folks think that we're going up to 25 kids in a classroom, or even 20 children in a classroom. The proposed the proposal that we have, it's not not anywhere close to that. And in reality, bluff doesn't change really at all. I mean, if you if we I want line for line here we have we have only a few classrooms at the higher you know, three, 4 or 5 or 3 or 4 level that are, are even close to the minimum standard. So I get this feeling that folks think that these classrooms are going to be going to 25 kids classroom or in bluff, not one classroom increases. There's decreases, actually. So I just don't want there to be a confusion in the public about we're not we're not we're not looking to go to minimum standards. We were using minimum standards as a metric to look at, because when we look at the budget, we know there's no ceiling. But we were we needed to know what the floor was.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And so I don't want there to be this huge misconception that we were suddenly jumping to 20, 25 kids a classroom, when in most classrooms, almost nothing is changing.

[R14875-264] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: not we're not we're not looking to go to minimum standards. We were using minimum standards as a metric to look at, because when we look at the budget, we know there's no ceiling. But we were we needed to know what the floor was.
TEXT> And so I don't want there to be this huge misconception that we were suddenly jumping to 20, 25 kids a classroom, when in most classrooms, almost nothing is changing. So did people. Because I hear people being mentioning how big the classrooms are going to get. Is that  is that something that. Am I reading this correctly?
NEXT> Raquel (surname not stated): We have 27. And a fifth grade class at. Bluff right now, right.

[R14875-271] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair — short cluster of the chair's acknowledgements and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: I just don't.
TEXT> Get this. What do you say? Okay. Go ahead, kids, a classroom.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Candace Crawford, Ward two. This is a technical question. In the deliberative meeting next week. Should. If if money was added to the general budget, would the default budget also

[R14875-278] Cassandra Edwards | Public commenter, Ward 3 — her self-identification | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Cassandra Edwards. Ward three. I am a parent. I am a citizen. I am also a teacher at Disney. I've heard a lot about this new contract. Obviously, as. A teacher, I'm. In love with this new contract. It's great news,  but if you want to affect teacher turnover, it's not just about the contract at Disney Art school for the first time. And I don't know how long. We lost no classroom teachers last year, and it's not because of our pay. We don't get paid more at Disney than they do at bluff. A whole lot of that goes to the lady in red over here. We feel supported by our administrator when it comes to, you know, dealing with those behaviors that we're having struggles with in the classroom when it comes to parents that are having their concerns and they don't often know how to express them in a polite, appropriate manner when they're concerned for their their children. We know she's going to be there to help us, to make sure everything gets ironed out. That doesn't stop at the building that comes up here, too. So when we get pulled into a meeting with our principal that says the school board has boated, has approved your contract and voted to cut $1 million, and we have no idea why.
NEXT> Cassandra Edwards: But all we keep hearing is we're going to restructure. It gets very confusing and it gets very obviously, you've heard from a lot of educators tonight that are all

[R14875-281] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2 — her self-identification on her second turn | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Mary Lovett. Word to just a couple of comments from  what's up, Claremont? A lot of people found it very difficult to access information. This is a comment I made before of accessibility of information makes a  informed voter, and it makes a lot of tensions ease between the public and the board. Number two, the dual enrollment program.  My co graduate of S Nick and I, we did take dual enrollment courses. And a huge setback was they wouldn't have enough students enroll in them so they wouldn't be offered.  We I think were offered for AP classes and a lot of people didn't get credit for them because on the AP exam you usually need a three or higher. Well, now it's getting more competitive. You need a four or higher. A lot of places don't accept a three. So if we're going to pride ourselves on offering dual enrollment, make sure their quality courses so they actually transfer because they're three credits.  Most universities require four. So the transfer process, the quality of education, let's make sure if we're providing ourselves and offering it that we actually are offering it to these standards.  And the last thing was looking, listening to  Mr. Pope, who was also an educator over at the tech center.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: More research I did earlier tonight was looking in the mirror. Course, they have a Vista grant that we would qualify for if there is any possibility looking into it.

[R14875-282] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2 — Stevens High School class of 2017 (second c | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mary Lovett: transfer process, the quality of education, let's make sure if we're providing ourselves and offering it that we actually are offering it to these standards. And the last thing was looking, listening to Mr. Pope, who was also an educator over at the tech center.
TEXT> More research I did earlier tonight was looking in the mirror. Course, they have a Vista grant that we would qualify for if there is any possibility looking into it. Just to think of that alternative thinking, what can we offer students instead of college career path? Because it's not what is cut out to be. It's not what they promise you. So  just those tech classes, volunteer Peace Corps, AmeriCorps, military. Both my parents were in the military. There are over 20 year veterans. They had the best career possible. That set them up for success. So let's think of more ways to be able to provide different opportunities, because there is no clear cut mold for a student or what success even looks like in today's time.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So thanks. Thank you. Thank you.

[R14875-286] Raquel (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — onset of her final question ('Sorry, I know | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any further comments from the public?
TEXT> Sorry, I know. I'm. Hogging space. And you guys might have an answer. Yes. I  have a question. So we have these classroom sizes projected for these numbers. What happens. If we get a lot of new students transferred in, and we have to increase those class numbers because that's where they fall in.  What would be a solution if we ended up with a classroom where they do creep up to those higher numbers? My kids own classroom has gained three students since the beginning of the school year. We're not even. Out of January. Well, we're now out of January, so.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You don't. Answer that. Let me try. It's a it's a.

[R14875-289] Raquel (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — PTO president at Maple Avenue School, paren | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: in. And and part of the problem at bluff, having a single fifth grade is that there is no buffer. So by trying to have multiple classes at more schools, we're able to try to alleviate that problem. But it's it can be very unpredictable.
TEXT> Yeah. I guess that that would be the second part of my question is, say at Maple we ended up with class numbers too high.  Would we transfer students to the other elementary schools if needed to try and balance those age groups? Because we've done that this year. Maple ran out of room in kindergarten, so now we shuffled students. So I'm I guess that's my question. If if at one school was, you know, reaching their cap, would we transfer students to the other elementary schools?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, I think we're kind of.

[R14875-295] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (not named on this recording — the only member of  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. Thank you everybody. Seeing all of us from citizens, I'm going to close that now. We we've had a lot of discussion on this to me. Further comments or questions from the board.
TEXT> I have one. Can call today. From. A parent. And he had a suggestion and he asked that I would really the message he said, what if we took the bluff school and  had all the little all the little children in there, the youngest ones right through the first grade. So  the other two elementary schools would house all the second two, three, four and five. That's right. And then six, seven, eight could still stay here and, you know, and then that and then they wouldn't have to go to the high school. So I just said I would relay the message. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: All right. Seeing no further discussion on this, we're going to move on. To item, the last item on tonight's agenda is the visioning Committee continuation. This is the the

[R14875-304] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, and chair of t | 2023-02-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: of great programs that were low hanging fruit that were not very expensive to to start. So I think there's some great things we can still do as a committee. We will still need a committee as a renovation as we move forward with that.
TEXT> So I think keeping this group together, as,  Whitney said here, they're very active citizens that really want to see some good things happen. They find a lot of value. And I think a lot of people find value in what we do at the tech center. And I think the students that come here find value in it. They don't know it when they're here, but when they leave. And I've got alumni surveys to show that time and time again. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So are you suggesting we stay?

[R14875-306] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, and chair of t | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So are you suggesting we stay?
TEXT> It's an agreement, right? So if there's things we don't like about the agreement, we bring that up. And I think that at the region ten meeting, it's an excellent opportunity. I believe Mr. Tempesta will be there. Donna McGowan is already RSVP'd. We tried to get  the commissioner there, but he's not available Wednesday. But Jeff Beard will be there. So there'll be some great opportunity to have that exchange. And I think you must have copies of the region ten agreement. If not, I'm happy to share that with you. And then you can take a look at it. It is in our  drive, our vision Committee drive, but it'd be a good opportunity to take a look. There's some things that we follow that's been passed precedence, like  six seats. We save them until June 1st for Newport and they save six seats for us. So if we have a student that really wants to get into welding, we can make that opportunity there. But there are some things that hadn't been addressed, like we provided transportation for a long time, and we've kind of separated from that because we didn't have enough busses, they didn't have enough busses,  but we've made them to work out. But those are the things we can negotiate with within that realm.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I knew the answers. It just better coming from him. Thank you. That's been.

[R14875-349] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (fragment cluste | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I would love for you to say something. Please.
TEXT> Oh. Oh,  okay. So. Yeah. So thank you for that. Honestly,  I would like to. I mean, I will say that it's not all administration's fault. I will say I've been to one administrator twice. And then, like I said, after speaking with Mr. Romeo, because this is I'm he had no idea. So it wasn't his fault.  It so  it's it's not just one person's fault. There's a very high issue with communication in administration. And there's a very huge confusion which with what is right and what is law.  So at this point, what I'm dealing with is this student is by the state required an education. So my researching of a stalking order cannot happen because he has to have his education and he cannot. This is what I'm told for the board.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: I have a question for the administration. Sorry. Do we need a new policy. On do we but do we do we need a policy on personal space? Do we

[R14875-353] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (self-identified | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So there is, it is being dealt with. So I can't talk about specifics of this. I urge all of us not to talk about specifics of this and an open forum like this for a variety of legal and ethical reasons for the students.
TEXT> So my reasoning for bringing this up is so that these parents and these girls know to say something because they're not. I'm not saying that this child or these students are not getting consequences, but the consequences that they are receiving are not working.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you for coming.

[R14892-8] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations / business adminis | 2023-02-08
PREV> Michael Tempesta: up as well. So you should have that. And we provided that along with more and just try to get that. So you should have the copy of that. Go over it again. Allow ask Mr. Seaman to explain the the makeup of the budget.
TEXT> Spend it on the numbers that we have in here. Most, if not all of you have a chance to see this at previous presentations, similar format to what we've used for the last many years. Report by location on the budget, which you've got here in the first column is what the budget was, was approved for this year that were currently in. And the second column is the proposed budget.  In just doing a quick comparison, you see that the debt service is down slightly lower amount of debt, therefore lower amount of interest.  Special education for our district on elementary wide, district wide for elementary students is down $20,000 as there was anticipated to be a lower level of out of district spending for our elementary specialty kiddos. Going into the individual buildings. The primary change we have here for the increase of 179 primarily, is a combination of the impact of the Sri contract, which was already to discuss, and the fact that we're looking at 11.4% increase in the health care expenses from last year to this year. Maple Avenue is any same as in the same explanation as is this not we go into the middle school, you see a reduction of $800,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The primary reason for that is a reduction of our district spending for our special education kiddos. Next line down on Stevens. You see a significant increase in that. Many

[R14892-11] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations / business adminis | 2023-02-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: a reduction of $794,540 from the budget that was approved for this year, fiscal 23 into next year, fiscal 24. On the right hand side, we speak to the revenues going to hold that top number, the district assessment, for a moment and come down.
TEXT> We're anticipating tuition to be level year over year, as is transportation fees, interest income, pupil activity fees and other contributions that are anticipated to come in, and also funds that will be available to reduce taxes, which is basically surplus coming out of this year. Anticipate for this year that will reduce taxes for next year. The adequacy education grant is down 700 000. The primary reason for this is both a reduction in the budget, as well as an increase in the amount of statewide property tax that we're having to pay as taxpayers. The statewide property tax increase of $420,000 is primarily related to the fact that statewide property tax is done against the equalized valuation. It's not done against the valuation that we use in calculating our own taxes. And equalized valuation is up close to $1 billion. We value our properties to 747 million, but equalized is closer to a billion. So we're going to pay more on the statewide education property tax. And that money, in effect, we're paying to ourselves. And it reduces the amount that the state has to pay to us on the adequate education plan.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Once these are all put together. I'm sorry. Let me just say with two others, the catastrophic aid in our dollars that come back to the city due to very

[R14892-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (the moderator announces 'superintend | 2023-02-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: rate and ultimately brings the decrease in the rate from the current year approved so that it's down by $1.74. The teachers contract. The impact on on local tax rate is $1.34. Those are the key components of the budget. More conversation. Come. Thank you.
TEXT> All right. So the slide that you have for you I just wanted to speak for a minute about the importance of the teachers contract and recognizing the amazing educators that we have,  what went into  this historic draft, and why it's critical that there's no other way to educate children.  Then having qualified,  consistent educators in the classroom, absolutely. Our most effective what you see here is what we looked at when we were  negotiating. And also you can see the first five steps, the so-called as on your way to professional status, particularly the first three years and the percent of total and retaining teachers. When you look at that 22%, 14%, it's 17%. That's the turnover we've had of teachers  for going back many years  in what we felt both the board,  the administration and  I believe also that we go to the six, negotiated a successful contract is it's critical to have enough money for staff to not only come here and stay here, which many have gone.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I see a bunch of of our teachers in the room. But for generations to come to stay here as well. Okay, so that is why we were very invested

[R14892-37] John Wadsworth | Voter, Ward 2 (self-identified at the podium; the ASR renders the sign | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: from somewhere. And if we're cutting it from reducing staff, then we're essentially negating the the salary increase in particular getting we're giving them increasing workload. Well, we'll give them the base, which is not really an increase in value which you. Thank you. Mr..
TEXT> And John Wadsworth Worked to. I in favor of. Putting $1 million back into the budget. We're already asking the teachers to do so much, and they're already being paid nothing currently compared to the other  towns around Hanover to make way more money.  And they make way more money being a bit more money. So we're going to do a restructuring on top of that. Now we're going to ask them to do from 50 to 20 kids to 25 to 28 kids. They can't handle what they've got now, and that is no fault of them. They just don't have time. The discipline, these schools are horrible. The middle school is a pretty mess. People aren't doing what they're supposed to be doing there. There's investigations left and right and they just bluffs under the rug. We need to give the teachers a chance, pay them the money they deserve. This restructuring is the dumbest idea of ever. We're going to take 12 year old kids, and we're going to put them in with 18, 19 year olds who thought that was a good idea. We already cannot handle the  sexual harassment and the bullying and things like that in the schools currently. And you guys think this is going to be a good idea.
NEXT> John Wadsworth: You don't have enough parents, you don't have enough anything, and now you want to make money out of budget and then add more kids. You just it doesn't make

[R14892-40] Unidentified | Voter from the floor, a parent close to staff who left the district ov | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: large number of. Staff who I. Am very close with have done. The same thing. Loved our school. Loved our kids. Loved our administration. Had to get out. For financial purposes. My children all go to school. Here in the district, have had some amazing.
TEXT> Teachers and had some amazing academic growth because of that, and also have had a lot of struggles because they do not have teachers that are consistent in the district. Research does show us that in order for academic growth to happen, you need to have teachers who are familiar with curriculum for Miller, with the systems that are in place in the school and are not spending their time learning the new, atmosphere, so to speak, let's call it that,  of a new place. Giving the teachers the raise that they deserve would be a huge way of doing that sense. Restructuring has come up. I have asked repeatedly, along with other people, for the data, the research, the evidence that supports such a change. I can provide the evidence, the data, the research that shows that having consistent educators will help student growth. I have not been provided with that data to show that restructuring does the same thing. Thank you. Sure. Anyone else that would like to speak to this amendment? Add the money back in.  After emailing with some of our teachers, and I'll just focus on a couple of things that they provided insight on. They are spending 30 to 50% of their time, they feel managing behaviors. These teachers get a pair for one hour in their classroom if they're lucky, because that pair is not being pulled to sub for another classroom.
NEXT> Unidentified: Our sub is two people, two people. So I'm putting the money back in because that's where our teachers are going to get their support. That's where our staff is

[R14892-52] Andy Bernier | New Hampshire School Funding Fairness Project (the moderator names him | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: second night. And now the meeting is over. I have two people, the ladies, I just stepped forward and Andy Bernier asked me just for a moment, in front of you as first. So I'd like to ask him to make. Please sign it again.
TEXT> Thanks for indulging in for a minute. As many of you are aware,  there is a long standing disparity in funding and resources between school districts in New Hampshire. Because of this, all around New Hampshire, scenarios like tonight's play out difficult decisions with no cancers. The disparity is a violation of the constitutional mandate that the state is responsible to provide an adequate, equitable education for all New Hampshire students and to fund the state. Supreme Court of New Hampshire. Agreed, and decided so in the landmark Claremont one and Claremont two. Despite the constitutional mandate and the subsequent court decisions, and Hampshire elected officials have failed to address the problem of school funding parents, leading to annual budget principles like this over resources, teachers salaries, adequate funding in cities and towns all across the country. In 2019, the state convened the Committee to Study School Funding, and in 2020, that committee delivered a report $500,000 in the making, compiled from an exhaustive statewide process involving hundreds of stakeholders from around the state and some of the brightest minds in education that thoroughly identifies the problem. The results recommend solutions, and so on. That report currently sits in Concord, with many legislators either unaware of its existence or unwilling to discuss its findings in a meaningful way.
NEXT> Andy Bernier: This is not the future that I want for our children in our state that most of us want. Policies are needed to address this issue, and that will lead

[R14909-8] Hannah Petrin | Student Representative to the School Board, Stevens High School (chair | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: by Heather. Further discussion. In favor? I oppose any abstentions. Thank you. Moving on. Here, I want you to. Citizens. Comments. Any citizens I would like to speak at this time. Seeing none. I'm going to run to our student representative report. Good evening. Hannah.
TEXT> Let's have winter enrichment this last month with students. Got to do all different kinds of activities. This now just had a performance of the snow Queen on the ninth. They also just finished the auditions for a tribute to Broadway play. Maple has a concert coming up on the 22nd. And Maple also participated in a tribute to Broadway play auditions. They also had a lot of fun activities this month, which you can find photos of on the SEC website. Sports are going good at the middle school. There's an eighth grade parent meeting regarding the trip and fundraising on the 23rd from 5 to 6 p.m.. Sports have been going well at the high school. Mr..  Posted a principal corner update on the SUV website. Just updating everyone on a lot of the new policies started this year. Seniors have started rehearsals for the senior play happening at the end of March. The band is also going to the All District Band Festival in March. The Tech Center has the region ten meeting on the 22nd from 6 to 7.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Well, we are on to our discussion and action items. Number one on our for tonight is the 2324 school calendar review and should be your packet.

[R14909-31] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: So it's all its coordinate.
TEXT> We all share calendars. We did it. And what we did last year was we had the right. But when we added dates for professional development, we ended up starting. Historically, Newport has started prior to Labor Day and historically hasn't. And it was also kind of a fluke the year. So that's that's the only difference that we have because we wanted to add the days, which is a goal of our strategic plan to add the days, we add now we have 178 student days, and we did coordinate everything.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So there are no conflicts.

[R14909-36] Candace Crawford |  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: With the possible exception of voting days, we don't have control over.
TEXT> That is so. So what do we do if it's a voting day and there's children in school, we can't switch their school day for the voting. We just have to. Keep them here. With all the cars, here with all the voters.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We don't have the we don't have the students here where we have the staff here. That's one thing that we,

[R14909-37] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: That is so. So what do we do if it's a voting day and there's children in school, we can't switch their school day for the voting. We just have to. Keep them here. With all the cars, here with all the voters.
TEXT> We don't have the we don't have the students here where we have the staff here. That's one thing that we,
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Oh, okay.

[R14909-46] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that we discussed before alleviating the room crisis. Embedded at each elementary school room to expand programing and interventions. And we can talk about those as well, the coaching and interventions and more control and expansion for class size. So that that is really important.
TEXT> The very last bullet, we simply don't have any room in any buildings to do anything substantial for interventions right now at the elementary. And we wouldn't only way to do that is to eliminate a grade. So in the secondary is the most exciting piece. And you're going to see some statistical information for this as well.  Transitioning begins  earlier after the substantial focused elementary interventions seems will provide cell responsive setting for students. It will also be and we're looking at this we talked about this about a rebranding of the name of the middle school because it  will instantly be okay, particularly the first year. More of an intermediate elementary upper elementary model. And we'll have to be socially appropriate  in  and focus with those students. Another great benefit that hits a need that we have that that the visiting committee has been putting a lot of time into is there would be earlier access and a feeder to the tech center for for  the electives.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'm also trying to get more first and second course completas. And I also want to say with this, and you'll see this even more when you see it in

[R14909-47] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and focus with those students. Another great benefit that hits a need that we have that that the visiting committee has been putting a lot of time into is there would be earlier access and a feeder to the tech center for for the electives.
TEXT> I'm also trying to get more first and second course completas. And I also want to say with this, and you'll see this even more when you see it in the statistical data of the class sizes. I was also surprised to find out that the tech center didn't have the lowest class sizes. Some of the academic classes at the at Stephen's did okay, so there's a lot to be said there, but there's also if that is a value and it certainly is a value  we have, I think we could put that before the boy to make it a requirement for graduation. So  and,  and I would love to be all in on that. The program benefits that we're already exploring exploring of sharing and aligning staff, students and resources. Music  a good example that we had. We ended this with the business department electives and the tech electives increase access for students. So I'll I'll let Mr. Kosky come over for the another rationale. Okay.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So we we went through and what do I push it. Just the arrows went through and looked at some some state testing data for the district. The red lines

[R14909-48] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: exploring of sharing and aligning staff, students and resources. Music a good example that we had. We ended this with the business department electives and the tech electives increase access for students. So I'll I'll let Mr. Kosky come over for the another rationale. Okay.
TEXT> So we we went through and  what do I push it. Just the arrows went through and looked at  some some state testing data for the district. The red lines are Claremont. The blue lines are the state average for New Hampshire. We went back ten years.  Here's our our  reading scores. And these are students that scored per percent proficient, who are in the top half of  the scoring range. And you can see we follow pretty well the state average. That's reading. Here's math. The gap is our Covid year when there was no testing. And then we follow that with science.  And so you see a very of a back to those again a pattern where we just haven't moved out of the bottom 25%, with the exception of a couple of schools, a couple of years in a couple of subjects. And so we've been very consistently at,  at the bottom, and we wanted to when and to an administrator and teacher that I've had any conversations with, everybody wants to see student improvement. And this kind of really kicked us into throwing more options on the table as to what could we do  to move us out of that bottom 25%.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And so we know looking at those blue highlights that we can move, our students are not destined to, to to live there. They can get out of that range

[R14909-53] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Unidentified: Do you want to highlight on that?
TEXT> Would you mind saying what those are? I forget how you phrased it, but the the extreme interventions you need, what does the student look like who comes to preschool? Needs a lot of intervention.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: Often we see kids, who come to us completely non-verbal. They've never been around peers before. They've never sat at a table and done any structured activities before. So having

[R14909-58] Steven Horsky | School Board Member (chair: 'Stephen had a question' at seg 184; Heath | 2023-02-15
PREV> Christina Sanford: classrooms, those for six weeks of school when you're teaching those transitions and expectations. So having the kids already there, having them already familiar with the schools routines, building just all of that, I think that's going to help with a lot of those transitions.
TEXT> So just I want one clarification question looking at this chart, is it when I'm looking at the sending school pre-K enrollment and I'm seeing 20 and then I see 14 IEP. My question is is is it 20 total students. Which means the 14 with the I p are already in that 20? Or are we looking at 34 students plus six on a waiting list?
NEXT> Christina Sanford: You are looking at 20 total, 14 of that 20 already having an IEP in place. And then, I have a current waiting list of children hoping to get into

[R14909-59] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: and I'm seeing 20 and then I see 14 IEP. My question is is is it 20 total students. Which means the 14 with the I p are already in that 20? Or are we looking at 34 students plus six on a waiting list?
TEXT> You are looking at 20 total, 14 of that 20 already having an IEP in place. And then,  I have a current waiting list of children hoping to get into the program, and I didn't have the exact  details of which school they were slotted into. But for the ones that I know, those six are not included in the total because they are. Waiting to get them.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So to be clear, yes, I was I was the slide master. And these the amount of work they did, they wanted. Okay. I'm sorry, I was trying to organize

[R14909-65] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School - her onset; the leading word is th | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: One and bluff.
TEXT> Christine  Bluff currently. Has. One fifth grade classroom  and the student the class sizes 25, so it's a very big class size. Our need for next year would be two fifth grade classrooms, given our enrollment.  So. Looking for space for them to add that classroom, we would need to do some shifting  and looking for space.  Did I answer all the questions? That's okay. Just one fifth would look for two next year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. Thank you. Our estimates is about a room left over at each building. And we still have to come into the consolidation and the shifting of the special ed

[R14909-67] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member - onset of her Maple Avenue pre-K question, clippe | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we still have to come into the consolidation and the shifting of the special ed programs after this, based on where the kids present by the end of the year. So that's the other one to work to work through. So the next. I'm sorry.
TEXT> It looks like the. Preschool. Enrollment is weighted more towards Maple. Is that because Maple has the space to have more preschool children there? And if not, if if space becomes an issue because of the pre-K program, would there be an option to. I guess I don't even know. I'm going to. I'm just going to throw out a random situation, an option for maybe at the parents discretion, or the parent can opt in to shuttle their kid to a different school that's not in their neighborhood if the pre-K enrollment is too big at one.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So so there's a there's a lot we can there's a lot we can do with that. We were hoping to have one all day at least, maybe two

[R14909-75] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Mike Koski: for many reasons. And it has a positive impact. It's just not as great at impacting with kind of limited resources. We'd like to focus on those things that are going to give us the greatest bang for our buck, the greatest amount of impact.
TEXT> And so this research has been done, I guess it's it's been at least 10 or 15 years. It's it's pretty solid. We can  we can find find it very reliable.  And so the more we can keep our teachers here by giving them a good contract and then creating a cadre of coaches that gives them the instruction they need to be effective teachers. And I think if any of us think about coming out of college or coming out of our training and going to work, none of us were prepared for our jobs. You learn so much on the job that makes you better at your job, and that's really why we need this coaching model.  As much as colleges would like to say, you walk across that stage, you're ready to go. You're not really. And there's so much to learn on the job. And so by using our experienced teachers creating these coaching models, we will ramp up everybody's skill level much faster and see that impact in the in the students. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Could you just give us a thumbnail quick of what those indicators actually mean? I mean, I know I know what most of them mean, but.

[R14909-92] Stephanie (surname not stated) | Curriculum Director, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (called up as ' | 2023-02-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: for helping us implement it next year. I am curious how this relates to the restructuring. And is was it what were we going to be doing this program before the restructuring was planned? Or, you know, like I'm just I'm wondering how they're related.
TEXT> I don't want to  over speak, but I think that this process could happen with or without that. The piece that makes it more impactful is having kindergarten or pre-K teachers in the building to be able to start so much earlier, giving that exposure to the kiddos. I wish I could just show you so many pictures that I took of our visit to,  Beverly, Massachusetts, a similar district to ours. They have a coaching model, and they're implementing a program that we would like to implement and to be able to see students interacting with the coaches, the coaches interacting with teachers and four of us in the classroom. And they're not missing a beat of instruction. Like, that's what we're really looking to build, because it's more than just coaching. The teacher, like the teacher, then becomes more comfortable and is willing to have more people in her classroom that can view what she's doing that helps the next classroom. So having the pre-K teachers there and building that up from pre-K through fourth grade would be really, really impactful. And this is not just for the elementary schools. I also want to mention that the middle schools participating in this also in addition to unity, our other elementary school.
NEXT> Stephanie (surname not stated): So it's a really nice program, and I think it's going to build the capacity. And we have, we have a lot of wonderful things we can talk about at

[R14909-94] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (UNCERTAIN: the superintendent answers 'To Bonnie' | 2023-02-15
PREV> Stephanie (surname not stated): So it's a really nice program, and I think it's going to build the capacity. And we have, we have a lot of wonderful things we can talk about at the middle school at a later time if you want to.
TEXT> But yes, I have a question. So if you have a teacher whose students are not progressing, that teacher is not taking this course and the students are not progressing as well. They would they be required to take this?
NEXT> Stephanie (surname not stated): So I want to clarify that the the course would be for our teacher leaders. So, you know, Melissa may identify her leadership team or maybe a couple of teachers

[R14909-99] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: So I just want to make sure I have this. Understood completely with what's taking place is that this is for developing teachers into a coaching role. Correct?
TEXT> Well, it's for having coaches. The coaching model is to have in these folks a more expert. But I've done it in other districts. The coaching model is to have other sets of eyes and resources and build the capacity of all teachers. To Bonnie's point and also kind of melding the two worlds. That's definitely  wanted to say, and giving actual examples of what's happened already in Claremont since I've been here. So I think this will go its own way anyway, and teachers will avail themselves of that. The evidence I have of that is  before  coming here, you had research for better teaching and understanding,  teaching all all these great action research based  programing, and it went dormant for a while. When we offered, we offered that to the staff, the teachers, resoundingly. We wanted to have the new people come in to ramp up. All the vets wanted to to refresh as well. I'm not. I think this will really, really get legs.  And it's also not taking away  title teachers. It's, it's augmenting what we have for title for the pullout for kids who  need  targeted interventions. In addition to that, we'd have coaching to build the capacity. So one of to.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Be clear, I think the one concern I have in the in the presentation is that it's not required by teachers. So that's kind of where the, the, the look

[R14909-104] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: I just want to grasp the impact it's going to have, because if it's something that's elected and not something that you have to partake in, I see a bunch of missed opportunities where we're trying to get things a little bit more streamlined across.
TEXT> And certainly there's not one teacher in Claremont, nor any that I've ever met that gets up and says, I want to be a mediocre version of myself today, right? And so we also know, just like kids learn from each other incredibly well, our teachers learn from each other very well. And there's there's more opportunities to serve as a coach than just going into someone's classroom. So, for example, if  Stephanie mentioned, if my leadership team is the group that goes to be trained  for Disney, they also help facilitate team meetings. They  are teachers, have common planning time, and they plan together. And you can take on that coach role, that coach perspective, without having to observe someone. So there's other ways for that coach to influence teaching, starting with planning. And if you go back to the to the slides that  Mr. Kosky talked about, that collective teaching. Right. That's the goal. We're trying to build that collective teacher skill and the data piece. Absolutely. They share each other's data because they collaborate with each other, and they want to grow with each other and from each other. And so when a teacher says, man, my, you know, my kids just didn't meet this skill like I wanted.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: How did yours do? Well, mine seemed to do okay. Let's talk about how we each approached it again. Coming from a coaching model or perspective, there's an opportunity right

[R14909-109] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that there at 258 average over the last seven from 277. But look across at that 27 average up and down here or there. Some of that we actually had more money, but we couldn't find people with, with s or even in the 25.
TEXT> But but that's but that's where we are. Maple looks a little bit different. Most consistent all the way across averaging at 300  lower percentages. And I want to say this to about the free and reduced. All of these percentages are high in the state okay. When your average for the district around just teetering around 50%, they're fairly significant  numbers  in basically all that comes with that is really more involved students interventions and the like. And what I'm going at is hence the concentration in the early getting students in more intervening sooner. All right. Oh man. That sounds that was a Massachusetts  a on the end of that sooner. I'm sorry about that. It comes out. It's dying hard. All right. So when you look at the middle school numbers okay. And this was again and I want to thank D Skinner for pulling all of this. And then we vetted it as best we could as fast as we could.  You look at the ratio of teachers all the way through and average class size in the middle school.  And we were still looking at the  I,  the 23. I think we have to  we're still that might be a little bit higher than that. And I think it is.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we never get back to the slide. I just want to be honest about that. But you still look at it and you see 16 and as I alluded

[R14909-110] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of teachers all the way through and average class size in the middle school. And we were still looking at the I, the 23. I think we have to we're still that might be a little bit higher than that. And I think it is.
TEXT> And we never get back to the slide. I just want to be honest about that. But you still look at it and you see 16 and as I alluded before, and we're going to we're going to look at the other averages. The average that elementary all the way across ten years. Solid solid 16 okay. Same. Okay.  All the way all the way through. That's not as alarming because again, it's the next step up from elementary. It's important to to get there. The most alarming that that I, I see that and again I'm 15 years as a high school principal is well before this,  being a superintendent. But when you look at the average of 508 across for Stevens, the free and reduced data,  which, you know, if you've had kids at every level, everything drops off by the time you get the high school filling out forms, all the other stuff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Jason. So the total teachers of Stevens, okay has declined. And then the average class size all the way across, okay. For those seven years is 147. It's even less,

[R14909-111] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But when you look at the average of 508 across for Stevens, the free and reduced data, which, you know, if you've had kids at every level, everything drops off by the time you get the high school filling out forms, all the other stuff.
TEXT> Jason.  So the total teachers of Stevens, okay has declined.  And then the average class size all the way across, okay.  For those seven years is 147. It's even less, actually. When you go ten years, it's like 136. Okay. So should it shouldn't it shouldn't be. And we'll look at it too. And all I'm getting at is and we I didn't want to burn you with the scholarship, but you can see the scholarship everywhere, all around the world, all throughout the country is it's easier to have higher class sizes if you had to choose in the secondary level because kids have matured, they're easy, those critical years. And that's something that we have to adjust after this and look towards. And that's wholeheartedly why we think it's a good idea to use this opportunity to intervene sooner. And then over the next couple of years, through school profile, through what we have for graduation requirements, we we go for that. Okay. So the ten year enrollment, you can see the trend line okay as well. Going going down overall  towards that. These are Mr. Pratt's  slides he  made for us actually I think they're wonderful.  And then just just to come back at it and I just had the other, the other points to close on,  basically we we have an immediate problem of the overcrowding at the elementary. We know that we have the right size, the classes, okay, in the district.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And that's what I mean by that. And, and get to when we right size that getting smaller elementary classes universal pre-k for the for the interventions in the coaching

[R14909-123] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member - Head Start question (UNCERTAIN: same voice as th | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: pull this very quick. So my question was two parts. So well actually three parts. So I'm wondering why if we have free reduced lunch. So I'm going to just arbitrarily say 20% of those kids are free, but just for the heck of it.
TEXT> So why are we not using a head start? Those are those are the those are kids that are, at the poverty level. They need the same interventions as you're describing. They're ever on TV for enrollments. Why are we not why do we not have a relationship with them? Why are we taking it all on the think we do have a relationship with them?
NEXT> Christina Sanford: We we do we we have an agreement with Head Start. We work very closely with them. They currently have two classrooms of 18 that are full. And they were

[R14909-124] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Bonnie Miles: poverty level. They need the same interventions as you're describing. They're ever on TV for enrollments. Why are we not why do we not have a relationship with them? Why are we taking it all on the think we do have a relationship with them?
TEXT> We we do we we have  an agreement with Head Start. We work very closely with them. They currently have two classrooms of 18 that are full. And they were supposed to have a third classroom this year, but they could not hire that third teacher. So,  I have kids that go half day to Head Start and then come to me to get their special education services, and they are currently enrolling,  taking applications for next year.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I'm glad to hear that.

[R14909-128] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member - third question, on the six-period day (UNCERTAIN | 2023-02-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Yeah, absolutely.
TEXT> So the other I have a third question. So we talked about with the  and I'm doing a devil's advocate here. Having worked in a six through 12 school myself for many years and using shared staff to provide, using high school teachers to give middle school kids their special system, a challenge is a challenge. So I'm wondering how this affects the six period day, because we're going to if we go to that, our teacher load will be reduced.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Teachers will be teaching five sections set of six. So how do we do? How do we absorb the eighth grade plus do a six period day. Yeah. So is

[R14909-130] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have people cycle through that you might meet one time, you might meet all the classes all the way through. Again, none of this. I'm just talking about other models I've seen and work with other districts in my previous state to do this stuff.
TEXT> There's many ways to do it. You can slice it.  And even then we want to look at that. It's still that's still not a done deal to move to the schedule yet. So but there's there's more capacity. So for example, when I started my career, I was an English teacher and I had eighth grade students, and I had high school students all the way through in eight, 12, we, we had an extra year of English. So you had to take as an eighth grader, you had to take reading and writing, and then you had to take as a sophomore composition. I don't want to be too heavy handed here, but if we had that at Stevens, the composition class that we already have in the can is a running start. College credit money in the bank. You pass it, you get it. It's there's substantial things that we could do all the way through. And we also have to look at the eight nine. Mr. Pratt. We'll talk about that now. The presentation. I know I'm getting a little excited here, but there's there's a lot of ways that you can you can add the capacity.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: This question is more for Christine or a comment. So the. Collective literature. That I've looked at and support of early childhood education, it's been overwhelming. And I think it's

[R14909-131] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (chair's recognition 'Go ahead. Heather.' at s | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the way through. And we also have to look at the eight nine. Mr. Pratt. We'll talk about that now. The presentation. I know I'm getting a little excited here, but there's there's a lot of ways that you can you can add the capacity.
TEXT> This question is more for Christine or a comment.  So the. Collective literature. That I've looked at and support of early childhood education, it's been overwhelming. And I think it's really forward thinking. And one of the reasons I strongly supported  the restructuring plan was and get tell me if I'm wrong, is that if you have high quality childhood education, it decreases,  it by 8%, disruptive behaviors by 8 to 12%. And there's a projection, especially in low income communities and increasing your graduation rate roughly 16%. So those are substantial. But the key word that was in all the literature that I, that I looked at was high quality. And  I think Frank has, has kind of pointed this out as well. And my only concern is or how are we going to make sure that what we are offering is high quality? Because the last data that we received was kind of mixed. So we saw gains with kids that were  IP or or, you know,  I don't know if labeled is the correct word, but  designated as special education students. But we actually saw that traditional students didn't do as well down the road or  we didn't see any gains. So  what's what's in what's your vision of how we can ensure that if we are investing that it is going to be what would be considered very high quality  preschool.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: So I could talk a little bit about what high quality looks like in my perspective, but also talking about that data, that you're referring to, I think there I

[R14909-133] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Christina Sanford: to make sure that we have highly trained teachers. We want to make sure that, right now we have integrated services within our programs. So what that looks like is occupational therapy centers, speech therapy centers for all kids working on, the whole child development.
TEXT> So we're looking at social emotional development. We're looking at finding gross motor. We're looking at really the whole child. We're looking at play based,  play based opportunities because we know that's how students learn at this age.  I think that when we're thinking about pairing up with the kindergarten, we need to think about the kindergarten, telling us what needs they're seeing when kids get there and being able to,  have a closer relationship with them is going to make our program higher quality, because we're going to have more perspective and more cooperation with those teachers about what the needs really are. And we can shift our program to to fit what those needs are.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R14909-135] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, Claremont School District (recounts the | 2023-02-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Can I make a sentence of hot coffee  quality, or some version of a full day for the four year olds in particular? So I think just from a practical perspective, you know, when you have your children in front of you for 12 hours, there is only so much. Time on learning. There's only so much instruction that could happen.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I think that was the end of your presentation. Yes, I, I kind of want to bring us back. You know, we had a nice presentation on what we're

[R14909-165] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Unidentified: Of voice. On the road.
TEXT> All right. So  basically. The, the. The ways that we're talking. About are. In many cases behavioral interventionists. So they are they came on board to take really, really challenging positions. Where they are with students who are combative, disruptive and things like that, that it was tough to have  other parents who we offered to have those positions  to incentivize them to work with, with those students. That's the history of it. And I believe it's about a 6 or 7 year history. There are other Ela was also in the I want to tease out what they we have, I believe 20 or 30 low folks that don't necessarily fit into a bargaining unit. So for example,  speech  and  coda folks, other related services. It's a typical thing. We've also have some campus aid folks who help out, particularly at Stevens with,  you know, campus patrols and things like that. So there's there's a variation of specifically what we feel like we ultimately would this is identify two years ago in the budget subcommittee right away as a long term goal to try to roll that in, even in even that up somehow by having a more comprehensive in the future para contract similar to we heard  Marion Lovett talk about comparing us to Fall Mountain. Another other types of so that's that's where we know we need to go. But that's the I miss.
NEXT> Ben Nester: No, I just I think from, you know, from what I've seen over the years, there's always been a pretty, pretty large number of lows in the district, right. Truancy

[R14909-166] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, Claremont School District (recounts the | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that up somehow by having a more comprehensive in the future para contract similar to we heard Marion Lovett talk about comparing us to Fall Mountain. Another other types of so that's that's where we know we need to go. But that's the I miss.
TEXT> No, I just I think from, you know, from what I've seen over the years, there's always been a pretty, pretty large number of lows in the district, right. Truancy officers, social workers, etc.. And then right around 2018, 2019 when we when we worked really hard to build in district programs to bring kids back over the course of the next two years, we added roughly ten behavior specialists. And so I think that's the addition that the additional lows that have certainly been that have occurred on my watch and Mike's watched the following year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I guess my the take home message that I'm hearing is that the reason that their loss is because we need to work outside of the current para contract.

[R14909-217] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID at seg 395 rendered 'Michelle, be in | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That's what we model.
TEXT> Can you do it? You're moving. I have about 110 kids and the class sizes. So if you have two classrooms would be 50 kids in a class.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have we have 96. What we're what we're still have to look at is if we can go all day today, but we could do it half day would,

[R14909-219] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID at seg 395 rendered 'Michelle, be in | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We have we have 96. What we're what we're still have to look at is if we can go all day today, but we could do it half day would, would, would hit everyone.
TEXT> A half day would get 110 kids in two classrooms, four. Classrooms, six.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And then the extra two would be.

[R14909-225] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (roll-call vote seg 468-471: 'And myself' / ASR 'Mi | 2023-02-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: by salaries and benefits of positions that have been eliminated in the proposed budget. So that's what we're working with right now, and it's up to the board's interpretation of these words as far as what can be put in and how it is explained.
TEXT> I'd like to ask you to have clarification on the number of pre-K, three and four year old pre-K students that.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: So the. Numbers. Wouldn't it be exact by calculations. But I can have 12 students for each early childhood classroom. So if we're still looking at a half day program,

[R14909-226] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'd like to ask you to have clarification on the number of pre-K, three and four year old pre-K students that.
TEXT> So the. Numbers. Wouldn't it be exact by calculations. But I can have 12 students for each early childhood classroom.  So if we're still looking at a half day program, that would be four classes, per elementary school. So 48 slots per elementary school would get us to. All the. 100 and. 44, right. 144.  So that's not,  all four year olds. So we would try to get as many four year olds in as possible and then probably still,  have a limited number for our three year olds.  We also can partner with headstart as we talked about. So there's some spots for preschoolers there as well. So,
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R14909-288] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Vision revisioning or visioning committee for the tech to come report at our first meeting in March. So we'll have them here to give a kind of report on where they're at, where they're going, how things are looking for that. And then Mike, for.
TEXT> Other business. Other business. Thank you. Melissa, would you mind joining me up here? And Zach. Would you mind. Coming up? We just  finished an elementary school winter program, and  we spent four weeks kids running all around to the community. And I wanted to thank Zach Hurst from Kent, M  for funding and helping  provide supplies for that program. For us, it was a huge help. And I don't know if you wanted to say anything about how the program went.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Oh, absolutely. One we do it for the kids, right? It's an enormous amount of planning, and we always say, oh, and then we've watched the first time the kids

[R14909-293] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michelle Beaton: principals themselves did so much legwork behind this. They were the drivers of the winter program for our kids. And I can tell you that I just saw smiles when I was at the community center with over 100 kids and how happy they were.
TEXT> And. We have. To say a huge shout out to staff, right? We can't just send these kiddos out 100 kids into a pool, into a gym, to a bowling alley.  It's amazing. And the amount of organization our staff provide to that, it's seamless. We saw how many groups, just for an example at the community center, seamless moving between activities.  And that's a huge thanks to our staff. We couldn't do this without their support and the supportive community. So thank thank. You, thank you. It was amazing. So on to next.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Anybody else or maybe for other. Mister chairman, can I just make a request to board members? Tomorrow I'll be able to find to finalize the Warren article, the miss

[R14911-10] Stephanie Hurst | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (named 'Stephanie' on the recording; surnam | 2023-02-16
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: coaches from our ranks or anywhere else, than we would be able to put them through this program as well. And they would just continue sort of what Heather and I are doing and the Ela and math realm, but in a more specialized way.
TEXT> So  the last for two years, kind of the same thing. Here's some learning outcomes. We'll understand data driven process of instructional practice, how to implement and design high engaging lessons that have high impact. That also aligns with what we're doing in the curriculum department with instructional frameworks. So they'll be able to be a part of that process. And then,  supporting academic achievement for students. Again, here's just the year one and year two, the units of study they'll go through with the growth mindset, student engagement, personalization, personalization and data driven instruction. And here's a little sample of unit two that focuses on student engagement. It's a little small. You may not be able to see from here, but it discusses Haddie and the effect size that we've been bringing up in several of our meetings. These actually talk about visible learning, which is a wonderful program. Two of our administrators just went to a PD on that.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: Sue Schroeder and Christine Baker, they had wonderful things to say, but it's just more on that impact study from Hattie John, Hattie. And the administrative part is a six

[R14911-12] Stephanie Hurst | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (named 'Stephanie' on the recording; surnam | 2023-02-16
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: when they're not able to be in classrooms, but they'll be able to do the same learning outcomes that the coaches will be able to do. Same thing here. Six weeks, 15 total hours. And here's a sample lesson plan focused on data driven instruction.
TEXT> Designing lessons using the data. Strong PLCs. Just making sure that check in every couple of weeks with where's your data now? Like we have our benchmark data, but what are your children trending to be doing in the classroom? And how can you make instructional moves to push them forward in the in the small  moments of instruction, not just those large corridors or,  semesters? I think that's it. Any questions?
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Questions?

[R14911-22] Stephanie Hurst | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (named 'Stephanie' on the recording; surnam | 2023-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: Where teachers can see their growth, that scale. We saw that side of Christina. Right. Showed her growth over time. So these teachers would get the same type of feedback.
TEXT> Yes I can share some about that. So one of the common models you use in the instructional coaching is a coaching cycle. So teachers can sign up for a coaching cycle. Or their principal can sign them up for that. And they work with the instructional coach either 3 to 6 weeks to come up with a goal of what they would like to improve. Or sometimes the principal does identify the goal that they need to improve on. And we would follow a systematic process on improving that. It involves a lot of modeling by the coach. The coach may model something where the teacher is evaluating how the coach is doing, because everyone can always improve, and that also lets the teacher feel not like they're on the in the spotlight, right? So if they're looking at how the coaches is is doing something at first, then they do it, they feel more relaxed to not be so nervous. But then the next part would be through the lesson planning process. So what elements of your lesson planning actually could use some tweaking to allow you to deliver the instruction better? And then from that we look at student assessment.
NEXT> Stephanie Hurst: So once we get the student assessment you kind of see full circle. So here was the instructional piece. Here was the lesson planning piece. And here's how your students

[R14911-23] Stephanie Hurst | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (named 'Stephanie' on the recording; surnam | 2023-02-16
PREV> Stephanie Hurst: not be so nervous. But then the next part would be through the lesson planning process. So what elements of your lesson planning actually could use some tweaking to allow you to deliver the instruction better? And then from that we look at student assessment.
TEXT> So once we get the student assessment you kind of see full circle. So here was the instructional piece. Here was the lesson planning piece. And here's how your students did. What can we do to make shifts to improve that this next go around. And it's just a constant cycle for 3 to 6 weeks. And so the teacher has student data of how they were doing at the beginning and how their students are doing now to be able to compare their progress.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I just wanted to be clear that they're there may not be data that goes into the evaluation as far as teacher valuation, but there is data collected to show

[R14911-39] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 | 2023-02-16
PREV> Steven Horsky: Let.
TEXT> My kids. So what, what the what we always done. In. Teachers here. Are all over in. The. Goal meeting with the principals and things like that. When when they sit down with even working on this year. In. In the like, there's always. Professional responsibilities. And so many teachers are on committees and duties in professional development. This would be seen as doing that. This is above and beyond, and it would be a positive in their generally to make for that category of evaluation. Folks do this all the time. Oftentimes it's the same people on every committee and things like that. So I view this as as being right in that realm. I don't see it. And  I  don't think it will become contentious. I don't think it would ever be. I don't see a scenario where any one thing participating in and not participating in would be a  linchpin to to.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So then getting a waiver signed shouldn't be a problem.

[R14937-10] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (calls the 3/1/2023 meeting to order; names himself | 2023-03-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: to vote on the day of the elections. They just need to bring in, proof of identification and proof of, residency. Like a water, a water bill, electric bill. So something that shows that they are resident of Claremont. So I encourage people to vote.
TEXT> Thank you. Anybody else for citizens comments at this time? Seeing none I'm going to close citizens comments. Or student rep is participating in her summer.  Winter vacation. So she is not here. So we're going to skip back to that. And we are on to a public hearing. We have a public hearing tonight. I'm going to open the public hearing with the,  the public hearings for $7,000 donation to the Claremont Middle School from the Dorothy and Jack Byrne Foundation.  And it's a go towards the eighth grade class trip. I'm not sure, Mike, if you had anything else on that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's a great. It's a great trip, but always generous from the foundation. But they're really excited about it.

[R14937-24] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: learning and vacation camps. SR two allowed it allowed for some other, expanded uses, facility repairs and improvements, and then inspection. Testing, maintenance. Checking of buildings systems. And then finally three all of the SR one and two requirements, plus a requirement for 20% of.
TEXT> We've got a little bit cut off there, but, 20% had to go to,  programs to intervene for learning losses. And then  we had to maintain that bottom bullet.  It's maintained local fund, maintain local funding at the most needy schools. So we couldn't use Esser funds to reduce  or replace any staff or programs at our  highest need schools. So the local budget had to remain the same at those schools. It the grant also required a community survey survey to find out what people were interested in. So that survey was conducted in March of 2022. The results that came back are  listed there.  Student social emotional support, additional staff and improvement facilities with the three biggest priorities. And then the 20% that had to go towards academic interventions,  additional personnel  before and after school tutoring and then summer enrichment programs. And so those  survey results drove the district spending decisions on how to implement those grants. And then we had this whoops, this other question. So in addition to addressing academic learning loss, what other areas  did you think students needed. And it was again, social emotional learning stuff and then technology to upgrade devices and software and things like that to access the learning.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And then here's our current state with those three grants. So Esser one, the entire allocation has been spent and reimbursed and it is closed. SR two. We have an

[R14937-49] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (sentence onset clipped into the neigh | 2023-03-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So the bulk of this is going to bluff and.
TEXT> Not the bulk. But the when when we run a program, most of that has to go to those schools. Yeah. And it it doesn't work out to the bulk of the total grant because of the number of students who are involved. But in a per student basis, the larger percentage goes to those two schools.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And have we been able to it sounds like we still are struggling to get pears into those schools in particular.

[R14937-65] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; on the ballot for a three-year seat at the 3/14/2 | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: I think that was part of SR one. It was okay, I don't know.
TEXT> I believe the cost on cell phones for the number that we had, Frank, off top of my head was in the 40 or $50,000 a year range a year. Correct. Because, well, we had we had hundreds of phones and we bought those. Fine. Excuse me. Why did we buy those? I. Well, they were purchased at the very beginning of Covid when we were trying to also give the teachers the ability to work with the kiddos, and they did not want to work with their personal cell phones, and working with the students might provide them with that tool. I worry about some of those have run off now. Yeah, I worry about some of this stuff because I know, I  know, when we get to the end of this process as board members, we're going to be hearing a lot of us. And,  and I want to try to avoid some of that. So I'm looking at the bus routes. So we bought we bought a program for that. And I and I understand why we got it the first year because we were thinking about the reconsolidation and such. But we we also have it in the budget for next year. So why why  would we do that?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Let me find that real quick.

[R14937-100] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; on the ballot for a three-year seat at the 3/14/2 | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes.
TEXT> That's great. That's a really good. But how do we measure? I remember when I used to sit with people to develop their educational goals, and if somebody said they will, kids will demonstrate confidence. I would always say, how do you measure that a measure complex.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. I don't know how we're going to measure improve. I don't think we can just directly tie in one year, improve science scores to better equipment. I don't know

[R14937-101] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's a really good. But how do we measure? I remember when I used to sit with people to develop their educational goals, and if somebody said they will, kids will demonstrate confidence. I would always say, how do you measure that a measure complex.
TEXT> Yeah. I don't know how we're going to measure improve. I don't think we can just directly tie in one year, improve science scores to better equipment. I don't know how we we measure student growth compared to that.  It it does make the job more difficult if you don't have the right tools.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Oh, yeah.

[R14937-109] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: get it your request is to look into a long term, say, a multi-year contract for some type of testing or an outside service to test and give data reports. Could we do that? We could, we can I can see what we can. Get.
TEXT> I mean, standardize. I mean, I know there's a resistance to some, you know, I'm a believer in, in using standardized testing to drive a lot of decision making. But I know student growth is equally important in a district like ours. That's really what we need to look at most, in particular in our earlier years. So,  yeah, I would support that. And then my second concern is, is just my gosh, then if if we're thinking that we're going to need to spend $500,000, we're already earmarking $500,000 for out of placement kids, we're going to have that to look forward to, because I don't think that's going to just go away.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Right. That's that's one time money, right?

[R14937-112] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (the chair defers to him as "Mike"; S | 2023-03-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's the one time money. But I don't think those kids are going to need at one time.
TEXT> Correct. It's annually moving forward, however long they're in, that the intention is always to bring them back. But so that's a concern. And you have to realize when we wrote this and when we planned for this, we did see a spike at the middle school. We were you have to plan year, year and a half out for what you see, an alarming trend. Much. It almost double the amount of kids who saw the placement. The idea for those who are emergency placements. So they would go out, get settled and come back and rejoin. So,  but that's what it was. It was a safety issue. And we saw a spike about a year and a half ago that we haven't seen. So, prior to that. So that was the kind of the defensive nature of the budget. Fortunately, we haven't had to use it for those placements. You know, the emergency. We have, we have not.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We have not.

[R14937-116] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (the chair defers to him as "Mike"; S | 2023-03-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: There's no beds available.
TEXT> Yes, there's a bunch of drivers for that. And one of them pleasant as to why, but it doesn't mean kids are hurting any less. They certainly are. It's tough on.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything else. And open up for public comments.

[R14937-178] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; on the ballot for a three-year seat at the 3/14/2 | 2023-03-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Relax.
TEXT> Well, actually, if you go to the Doe site, there is a school that's going to open in the fall. Yeah, yeah. And they've got I'm looking at it. They've got all of their stuff. And I guess my question here, because I was reading their financials and this, this has an impact on us. And so I'm wondering if anybody's calculated because it's people. According to this, there have been extensive conversations with school administration with they've actually been to the high school and talked to guidance counselors. And there's been all this stuff going on that I had no idea,  that was happening. So I'm just curious. And looking at their financials,  they are  looking for  US stabilization money, which I'm assuming would be coming from our budget since the money follows the kid. True.  And special ed services, transportation. So we if we've been talking to them, do we have any sense of the impact on our budget?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think there's only 65 slots. I think not even there's it's just. 35, 35, 35. Yeah. No.

[R14937-180] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; on the ballot for a three-year seat at the 3/14/2 | 2023-03-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think there's only 65 slots. I think not even there's it's just. 35, 35, 35. Yeah. No.
TEXT> Because it's big money. And so where is that? I'm assuming if they're Claremont kids that's going to be coming out of our budget or our state money? Am I wrong or am I right?
NEXT> Mike Koski: My understanding is that when a student goes to a charter school. The local district sends the state money with that student, which is 3800 something there.

[R14937-181] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because it's big money. And so where is that? I'm assuming if they're Claremont kids that's going to be coming out of our budget or our state money? Am I wrong or am I right?
TEXT> My understanding is that when a student goes to a charter school. The local district sends the state money with that student, which is 3800 something there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: They they're throwing a number of 300,000 in title money, state, federal money.

[R14986-101] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - presides over the election of SAU 6 officers,  | 2023-03-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: The weather.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah, I just I just can't believe it. So  we are very thankful for them. And we will be handing those out to all of our, all of our teachers. Okay. So in in in paraprofessionals in staff. So we wanted to make sure we recognized everyone  on the other side. You can see that we also had and this was a  a  band event in the region where,  the Unity  Band, the Claremont Band and the Newport,  both middle school and high school in Newport and in Claremont, and the unity folks all met together and had a  band  a day where they they played, they they composed, and it was really a take off. They got together last year, particularly the Unity kids came down and now they're spreading it out in the region. That was very successful events. And I thank  Mr. Knox for sending some of his pics in his commentary on that. That was on March 17th and then  the not so great one, but  one that I've been spending my time with  over the past few months, and most recently, last Friday,  is for the Icon Belt lawsuit.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we have. We were all deposed as Claremont joined that lawsuit. Richard Seaman and I were deposed right around Halloween, and we I just went to, a training with

[R14986-118] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: Learn.
TEXT> In both communities. And then the back page is just an update while we're doing this planning for the future. We're also collecting data,  about the work we're doing right now. And so we have, data from both Unity and Claremont. This is all schools in the district. We have beginning of the year. That's what boy is and middle of year. And the red is the the bad zone, the danger zone of these, these triangles. And we're trying to move the decrease the red area and increase the green at the bottom. So trying to move students down to the base of that triangle where they are on grade level,  and you'll see there's some improvement. It's not giant or incredible, but we're we're moving in the right direction. It's been  really a very short implementation time, but we're happy to see that there's some traction and things are getting better.  So we, Steph, you can help me with numbers. The red zone should be, what, 4% or like the bottom triangle?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yes.

[R14986-124] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (SAU 6 Board) - reads the attendance rol | 2023-03-30
PREV> Mike Koski: Okay, thanks.
TEXT> I can ask a quick. Yes, please. So. So how does the student get.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Into.

[R14986-143] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: So the the data that is used is for the tears is coming from a test. Yes. So is it a special test from teacher or is it just data from the existing test that they're taking.
TEXT> Breakpoint. So this is  from a program called I ready which helps measure the student's growth.
NEXT> Rocco Ruggeri: So that's what they're using right now. So it's not an additional test along with the I read a in the state testing what they have to do. Correct.

[R14986-146] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Mike Koski: in the state test from grades 3 to 8. And that will be additional. So we'll be able to kind of look at this data and see how it compares to our state test data. And we should see that they're similar in result. Yeah.
TEXT> Just for further clarification. So I'm crystal clear. So from what I heard Stephanie say is that the red zone should be no more than 20 to 25% of total students. But I see that  at the mid-year we have 18%. So are we doing. I mean, is this saying we're doing well.
NEXT> Stephanie: I have something yeah. So the red section at the beginning of the year, you can look at multiple different views to inform the teacher. So you have standard view

[R14986-154] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Stephanie: Is 80 to 73.
TEXT> And and how do you pass out the identified students. So I'm maybe I'm just being thick here. But if this is to include our identified students, if we have a higher concentration of students than another district, how does that.
NEXT> Stephanie: Than our numbers would be a little skewed. And I do want to say that just because they're identified doesn't mean they're automatically in red or yellow necessarily. I mean,

[R14986-170] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23 (SAU 6 Board) (UNCERTAI | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: I looked he's got a similar. Yes okay okay.
TEXT> This is kind of literacy data. Do you are these can I ask people to please speak up. I'm sorry. Thank you. On this page it says K to five literacy data. Do you do the students are the students assessed that each specific grade level? Yes. Are you finding that there's a gap, a bigger gap at any 1 or 2 specific grade levels over the others? Between five?
NEXT> Stephanie: That's a good question. We do seem to have a larger gap amongst our 3 to 5 grade level. And this also includes unity. So they're k eight. So there's

[R14986-174] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (SAU 6 Board) - chair's recognition 'Whi | 2023-03-30
PREV> Steven Horsky: Whitney.
TEXT> Yeah. My question is I think it might also be for Stephanie if, if the, if normal under a an ideal triangle would have 20 to 25% combined red and yellow. It does seem like our middle of the year triangle is a little bit upside down because we're 20% in the green.  What does that mean in terms of the resources required to address an 80% below grade level student population as compared to the resources that would be required to address a 20% below grade level population?
NEXT> Stephanie: So in analyzing this data that shows us we have a tier one problem. So while tier two, tier three special education still needs to continue, we have to focus

[R14986-177] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Mike Koski: That's going to just explain where that instruction occurs.
TEXT> Tier one instruction takes place in the classroom with a classroom teacher. Okay. So what's expected to be taught at each grade level okay. So that's layer one. In addition to that, students would require another layer of instruction with either their classroom teacher or a title one teacher. And then in addition to that, if they're still not making progress, they would require tier three, which is often in individual, could be a very small group, longer amount of time more intensive. In addition to their tier one classroom instruction, the tier two instruction that's happening, tier three would be on top of that. And then at which point, if they're not making gains, they may be referred to special education, where Ben Nester handles all of those types of things. So and that would be for specific learning disability. There's a there's many different areas that you can qualify for special education, but that's for academic purposes. Okay. What we're talking about.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: So if you say this triangle indicates that we have a tier one problem, does that mean all of the our population of students need more tier one classroom time?

[R14986-178] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (SAU 6 Board) - chair's recognition 'Whi | 2023-03-30
PREV> Stephanie: to special education, where Ben Nester handles all of those types of things. So and that would be for specific learning disability. There's a there's many different areas that you can qualify for special education, but that's for academic purposes. Okay. What we're talking about.
TEXT> So if you say this triangle indicates that we have a tier one problem, does that mean all of the our population of students need more tier one classroom time? So friends rooms support.
NEXT> Stephanie: What we are seeing. Teachers are working very hard in the classroom to recover gains from Covid. Okay. And we also have had a shift in reading instruction. So we're

[R14986-184] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: On I'm sorry.
TEXT> Just more of a comment, but,  just for the the whole board is that our district really hasn't for newer members to really hasn't had a curriculum. So,  for even our traditional students, and it's my assumption that this coaching model is going to be is one of the reasons we have this coaching model is to help our, our teachers in the traditional classroom setting to be able to maximize, academic opportunities and to utilize the curriculum in a way that's going to be most effective. Sure. That's the sense that I'm getting is that we've had a gap in professional development, a gap in curriculum, and it's not so much resources as it is structures and procedures in place to support our educators. I don't. This is what I am. That's what.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: I'm taking.

[R14986-193] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Steven Horsky: direction. Do we believe we're going to be able to accelerate the growth that we need to overcome from the Covid period. This. Year compared to, you know, just is that growth going to. To get caught up basically to where we should have been?
TEXT> Oh, that's a great question. I don't know, as I can say that,  we have students who are kind of already recovered and never really got impacted by it.  I'm afraid to say there will be some students will be several years.  You know, we're and I think if you speak with any of the teachers or principals, we're dealing with behavior issues that haven't been seen before, which impacts instruction and learning. Just the practice family routines that have been disrupted and things like that. So,  I think it's going to be pretty uneven growth for that cohort of people as they move through. Some will get back on track really quick and others may, may really struggle. It just it kind of emphasizes the need to have that consistent effort everywhere and same language, because they're going to need to see it in many, many different places in order to, to make the adjustments.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So going off that I'm going to follow up with another question real quick, as far as looking at this chart, what should we really expect for for percentages in

[R14986-215] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'll be quiet soon.
TEXT> It's probably for Stephanie or Mike as well. So what is the strategy  to how to how to deal with social promotion?  I just I don't think I'm the only one that's concerned about  promoting kids that aren't meeting proficiency levels. And  are we kind of looking at that as a, as a, as a district or as an saw on how we're going to prevent those progressive losses when a kid moves forward and they haven't gotten it, and then they keep moving forward and they're just getting less and less and less because they have nothing to build on.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. Yeah. We we're having those discussions. There's I'm not aware of any, any educational research that says the student benefits by being held back. However, it almost always shows

[R14986-227] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - presides over the election of SAU 6 officers,  | 2023-03-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and now soon to be three. We're excited about the new employee. And Jeff can can speak to that as he has outstanding web skills, won't be on board until he finishes school. But, he's been absolutely waiting for for this, this type of person.
TEXT> We have also implemented a lot of technology training in the responsibility for updating.  Each school's web page falls on the administrative assistance they screen. There's some students who  cannot be in photos and the like. They have the most working knowledge of what's going on in there. And we're working hard to,  you know, update those images and things like that. But, we know  we migrated from a different package to  a newer package. And. Jeff. Jeff, I'm running out of bits and bytes. Talk if you want to take over. Yes.
NEXT> Jeff Small: So I. Know our original website was very it was just clustered with, it was hard to even maneuver. So we did go to making more of a cleaner look.

[R14986-235] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - presides over the election of SAU 6 officers,  | 2023-03-30
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: two people could do it. And I think you're right. I think for five, I mean, we're we're not using textbooks anymore. Everything is software driven. And I think we need to support the tech department. So thank you for for what you're doing one.
TEXT> One of the things that we've discussed with that too, in terms of, and we we started talking to the union  now that,  in maybe approaching  stipends or things like that. So you take existing people in the bill, you get much more value of a stipend to be in integrator doing those, particularly at the building level where you're doing all of those things and data meetings and things like that. Building upon the esprit de corps, always having that go to person who can model things right there. And expert,  stipends also have the benefit of you're not paying additional benefits, which can be up to 40% of a person's total after salary. So it's a smarter way to get more  leadership. It's also a way to keep people in the district okay, as extra income geared towards student results and outcomes. So it's that's that's what we  it doesn't have to be just more bodies.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So what sort of certifications are required for an integration specialist position.

[R14986-534] Marjorie Erickson | Unity School Board Chair; outgoing SAU 6 Board Chair - presents the SA | 2023-03-30
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: The the the.
TEXT> You have the same rules. Rules that my kids have. No beer bottles. No, no, no pizza on the ceiling.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So we're looking at Sunday, August 23rd.

[R15003-31] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Sullivan District 8; House Education Committe | 2023-04-05
PREV> Hope Damon: although the money would still be allocated, it's not guaranteed to be spent on education. So there are 20 something amendments to the budget coming before the House tomorrow. Several address that issue and hopefully we will prevail and keep the money earmarked for education.
TEXT> Frankly, I don't think it's adequate to begin with and the idea of making it more vulnerable, it includes all the special education funding, would move out of the Education Trust Fund into the general fund.  Not wanting to take up too much time. I think one of the other major  issues that is wrapped into the budget in a number of different ways  is what is happening with education, freedom accounts, the voucher program. There are both efforts to substantially increase it, and efforts to put guardrails on it and limit it. And I think what will happen tomorrow depends on who is in the house and how things are  presented.  So there's a lot of consideration of that, and I am always happy to hear from individuals or collectively the way people perceive any controversial topic. And certainly that falls in that category.  I think the most limiting approach that could come out tomorrow is that students would be eligible for efforts at 350% of federal poverty level. Right now, it's 300%. It doesn't look like it will stay the same. There's a bill that would raise eligibility to 500% of federal  poverty level, which makes it very, very broadly available.
NEXT> Hope Damon: Not a bill, an amendment. And there is also consideration of greatly increasing the categories of students that would be eligible for vouchers. It can be debated. And this is

[R15003-32] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Sullivan District 8; House Education Committe | 2023-04-05
PREV> Hope Damon: students would be eligible for efforts at 350% of federal poverty level. Right now, it's 300%. It doesn't look like it will stay the same. There's a bill that would raise eligibility to 500% of federal poverty level, which makes it very, very broadly available.
TEXT> Not a bill, an amendment.  And there is also  consideration of greatly increasing the categories of students that would be eligible for vouchers. It can be debated. And this is not the forum for it, but many of us, myself included, see the voucher program as taking money away from public schools, so expanding it is not productive. I hear that one last thing. There is money to improve, hopefully what is available for building aid. It's not anywhere near what the governor had in his budget, but that amendment should at least present somewhat greater opportunity to communities. Thank you all so much for your hard work and your time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Thank you. Thank you.

[R15003-34] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Is there any other citizen I would like to make a comment on a related to non-agenda items. Seeing that there is no additional citizens motion to make a comment, we'll move to Superintendent of students Representatives report from Hannah Patron.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: So I didn't get anything from Bella Disney Arts having trips to the library on the 14th from the seventh, 14th, 17th, and 19th. They also have a school trip

[R15003-35] Hannah Petrin | Student Representative, Stevens High School (ASR 'Hannah Patron') | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any other citizen I would like to make a comment on a related to non-agenda items. Seeing that there is no additional citizens motion to make a comment, we'll move to Superintendent of students Representatives report from Hannah Patron.
TEXT> So I didn't get anything from Bella Disney Arts having trips to the library on the 14th from the seventh, 14th, 17th, and 19th. They also have a school trip to the opera house on the 21st. Maple is having a Scholastic Book fair on the 10th through the 14th. They're having a math on May 5th. Steve is calling a talent show on May 12th. Students can sign up by  the 14th of April. There are also having science fair on May 4th. The first forum is due April 7th and the details have been mailed out. There's also been a reading contest over the last month. The deadline is tomorrow and the winners will be announced on the 14th. Uniforms were handed out for sports this week. The baseball and softball players have been invited to the fish attacks opening night on April 11th. They also have a spirit week of the 17th through the 21st. The high school had SOS suicide presentations last week and advisories. The seniors are performing The Beverly Hillbillies on April 13th of 15. The show is at seven, doors open at 630 and is $5 to get in and all the profits for the senior class.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: Musical theater has their performances on the 25th and 26th of May, and com is May 6th at the high school, and the National Technical Honor Society is reaching out

[R15003-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: slides again, one of the things that stood out that I didn't believe until I actually vetted the numbers was that the class size in the high school over the past ten years has been lower than the class size average in the elementary schools.
TEXT> That is not typical  at all. So when you look at those things and you look at where you would put and where you want the lower class sizes, always in  the early years in particularly in when with language acquisitions and other things, and when you have to compare the two, I think that's something that we also want to look at some of those numbers and see how we control the numbers, how we look at,  the graduation profile of Stevens, where kids exit and what we should and could offer as a district. And I'll get to the next one that feeds right into the great work that the Vision Committee is doing. So if you look at me, see, we're so. I'm sorry this is not working for me to do well. All right. So,  the the  points for the reconfiguration,  the, the benefits were the room crisis, which we still have for a little,  actually significant and bluff, and we still have to come up with a solution there and move us, especially like program or consolidate one that's there's there's work to do to not do this as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As we said, the embedded the pre-K will still be at here, but we don't really have a plan to move that yet. Interventions we will still have, as we

[R15003-46] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Stephanie: of that. So Hegarty is your phonological awareness. Then you have foundations which is more phonics and phonemic awareness. There's, there's a bit of that in both Hegarty and Foundations. And then you have wit and wisdom which is your comprehension in your writing strand.
TEXT> And so,  we piloted two different programs this year. One was Kayla. That's a core knowledge language arts, and the other one was Witan wisdom. And so  we, Yeah, we could stay here for a minute. We surveyed the staff after a year long process of  piloting, and it was overwhelming results that we wanted to go with the wit and wisdom because it aligns with Foundations and Haggerty and geodes that we've already been implementing. And geodes are just a readers that help supplement at K2. So,  if you want to look into this article further, this is a wonderful case for why we need high quality materials. And it shows that out of all the research that we have, yes, there's a lot of factors that influence students. And you can see that in the circle there. But the main thing that,  determines the success of students is their interactions with the teacher and the material. So that frames their ability to be able to provide that high quality instruction. And then we did a lot of research on how many hours teachers are spending looking for high quality materials. And it's just criminal what we're putting teachers through.
NEXT> Stephanie: So the next slide is just have some pictures to kind of show you what we're talking about. It's a lot of moving parts. I sent my Kosky I meant

[R15003-47] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Stephanie: the material. So that frames their ability to be able to provide that high quality instruction. And then we did a lot of research on how many hours teachers are spending looking for high quality materials. And it's just criminal what we're putting teachers through.
TEXT> So the next slide is just have some pictures to kind of show you what we're talking about. It's a lot of moving parts. I sent  my Kosky I meant to put the links on here for you guys so that you could have them, but  I've failed to do that, I apologize. So I did send the links to  Mike Kosky so you can research these different programs. They are some of the best we have to offer. So we're excited. We have the ability to bring them here to our teachers in Claremont. And then in addition to that at the  six through eight level on the next slide, they've already been using a lot of these high quality materials. They don't need so much as like student workbooks like you would at the elementary level. So they use these digital programs to ensure they're using high quality text with their instruction. So they use common lit New Zealand I call it New Zealand. You can call it news. Ella. I actually asked the rep whenever we brought this on this year how do you say it. And it's New Zealand. So I felt happy that I was pronouncing it correctly correctly.
NEXT> Stephanie: And then no writing, which is a writing program that we've seen a lot of gains. I get a monthly report on how students and teachers are interacting with that

[R15003-48] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Stephanie: New Zealand I call it New Zealand. You can call it news. Ella. I actually asked the rep whenever we brought this on this year how do you say it. And it's New Zealand. So I felt happy that I was pronouncing it correctly correctly.
TEXT> And then no writing, which is a writing program that we've seen a lot of gains. I get a monthly report on how students and teachers are interacting with that program, and it's it's really nice to see how much growth we're able to achieve with that. So those are the programs that we're looking to have board approval with for the materials. We are still  working on our process. In the next slide, we're still working on our process for implementing the curriculum frameworks. So we we want to have a curriculum map for every teacher to be able to see. How can I use these materials in alignment with my standards, my state standards that are  required to teach. And so that's a longer process, bunch longer than than adopting the materials. So we wanted to bring this to you today after vetting it with our educators and vetting it with our curriculum subcommittee so that we can get started on creating that curriculum map. We already started with the standards piece of it. We need to align that with the materials, and I would like to have that finished by the end of the year.
NEXT> Stephanie: The curriculum maps to be able to present to you, present to parents posted on the website, make sure everyone's had an opportunity to look at it before we adopt

[R15003-57] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Stephanie: haven't had all of that. Some of them have, some of them haven't we? We don't have a, consistent program at this time. Teachers are just piece milling things together, using what they can and doing the best they can with what we've given them.
TEXT> So for each of these programs, they only go through to the skills that those students need at that grade level. And it's expected that by the time they get to fourth grade, they would no longer need those other programs. So there is a bridge that we have to build for those kiddos to make sure we're not letting them slip through the cracks.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Okay.

[R15003-61] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Follow up to that is is there is that something you're working on or the office is working on is what the bridge program is going to be for the fourth and fifth graders.
TEXT> Our title teachers have done an excellent job about asking questions about how can we support these students now.  And so I've been able to  fulfill some of their requests of materials with the 95% group  and 95% group is based off the basis of 95% of students can learn to read. And  you know, we used to think that only 80% used to be a  misconception. Only 80% of children can actually be successful, and that's not true. Recent research shows us and past research. Really this stuff's been around. I'm looking at books that have copyright dates before I was born, you know, and and we're bringing that stuff back. So it's really interesting to watch. But  yes, we are in the process of that. It's just it's slower than I like to go. And I'm learning that sometimes I can have an idea and I can have all of these people ready to go, but then we have to work in education world and, and go a little slower about things.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: So yeah. Thank you.

[R15003-69] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: Could you distinguish between program and curriculum for everybody that terms that easily get.
TEXT> So our curriculum  work that we are doing is focusing on every element of instruction. And that's a lot to to people who may not, you know, be teachers. But there's the assessment part, the standards part, learning targets, what teachers are supposed to,  expect out of students day by day and then at the end of a unit, all of those things are combined together and to include opportunities at certain texts. Not that you have to use those texts, but this is the expectation. Everything that you use must mirror this expectation and this rigor. And so all of those pieces go together to make a curriculum. And a curriculum map will lay out how what's your pacing, your scope and sequence, so to speak, of when should you be presenting what and what order? I like to look at math, for example. So when you're thinking of like orders of operations in fifth grade, they're going to be using fractions, multiplication, division, decimals, all kinds of things. You're going to have to teach all of that before you can expect them to know how to do order of operations. Right. So in the same way, literacy is just a lot more difficult to explain.
NEXT> Stephanie: So that's why I like to use that analogy. But if you if you think about them in the same way, we need to know when do we should be

[R15003-89] Unidentified | Stevens High School Youth & Government advisor (staff) | 2023-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: lot of the schools, even though we only have seven students in our delegation. Alex created a bill, two bills. Actually, he's got one bill about LED lights underneath vehicles and another one on funeral pyres in New Hampshire that he wrote at my goading.
TEXT> We also have some legislation  that is related.  Another one on roads.  Another student,  wrote some legislation about amending a current bill  that was passed last year in regards to civics in the state of New Hampshire.  Another student wants to change the state flag. So  they've got a lot of great legislation going, and I'm confident they're going to do great this year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do we need a notion for a Google?

[R15003-92] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23 — cluster also carries  | 2023-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: I hope so.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah, I moved to excuse me, I have a five in my folks and I saw  I approve participation in the YMCA student government program on April 14th and 15th at the state House in Concord.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I will second.

[R15003-96] Unidentified | Stevens High School Youth & Government advisor (staff) | 2023-04-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Now, if you. Want to see. The honors. Students there, keep dioramas are on display in your court. Or at least some of them.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'll leave you with you guys. They are. Thank you.

[R15003-105] Sean LaPlante | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean the plant', 'Mr. | 2023-04-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I support the having the legal review. Not anything against this, because I think it's great. But if our attorney says that there's already a legal template or some kind of precedent document that we could use. I'd want to go with the attorneys recommendation.
TEXT> I actually use templates from other districts that use the same thing. And I actually  did that last night before this meeting because. Yeah, because I needed to expedite the the process, because our season does start. And I know that you guys don't have another meeting until after our season starts. Okay. So I kind of wanted to get this out there as soon as possible. And I did have this discussion with my administrator about a month ago. I know that he was trying to get  some stuff started.  I did have a meeting with the superintendent last, last week with Doug in Pam, and we all kind of talked about all the potential solutions. But if you looked at that first page,  there are solutions that were presented in the meeting, but I also explained why those won't work because 15 passenger vans. Yes. Although that they don't require a special license.  I have a track team with 40 kids. It's not going to work.  So they need to be able to be driven by their parents or an approved adult. And I explained in there what an approved adult would look like. I believe it's 25 years of age with a valid license and car insurance. And they're approved by the parent.  This is the only solution I can come up with. This is a temporary one. This isn't this doesn't have to be permanent. But since we. Can't.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: Give the obligation that we don't, we can't fulfill the obligation that we have for these kids to provide bussing for them, for these opportunities. So this is the only

[R15003-108] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair — elected vice chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Cool. Thank you.
TEXT> So I'm assuming Sean could use some creativity. For example, if you had ten kids that couldn't get the waiver signed you, then you would rent the bus. Perhaps the van.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: We could. And there is an opportunity to do that. Per the rec department. The rec department does have a 15 passenger van that they did say that I could

[R15003-112] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Sean LaPlante: Could if that's the case. But I guarantee you because I know a bunch of parents and we've talked about this before. Guarantee you that they will sign this. Hands down.
TEXT> I just I just want to talk about  what we did is some of the word incompetence was used. So I want to dress that specifically. We did talk to our attorney who advised us not to do this last year. We did set up trainings and offered that for van drivers to are taking that. Beginning of last summer we we couldn't get the amount of kids in the van. The same same types of things. We problem solved. To look for immediate solutions and schedule changes. There were the reason this is happening to our community and all of our surrounding communities is there are no drivers. We have the busses. We don't have. We can't hire. We've had ads for additional drivers up for months and we can't get them. We pulled a couple drivers from other districts,  but there's not a lot out there. The conflicts and credit to Sean, who submitted his his schedule early to Pam and coordinated that. He couldn't have gone on it any earlier to address this.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: I was the first one to put it out there, per all middle school 80s. It was just I didn't know what conflicts were going to be because the high

[R15003-114] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Sean LaPlante: have a game almost every day. And my and the track meets. I can't move because it requires 6 to 10 different schools to to to run. I can't move them. They're not going to move it for us just because we have a conflict.
TEXT> The and the other the other thing where you're a victim of your own success is the there are more students playing earlier and wanting to be ahead for the full ride.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: I think last year track had 35 and now it has over 40.

[R15003-117] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair — elected vice chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. No, it's it's in some sense it's a good problem to have. I'm glad we have that. But it's it's it's been tough to manage. So again I commend you as well.
TEXT> So my sense of what's going to go down is we're going to consult with a lawyer and he's going to say the same thing he said last year. He's going to advise us not to do it now, advise us not to do it because of what? And that's what I need to know. Because of what? Sure. And,  we did this when I, I coached,  different sports for 20 years, and we did this. We we we drove, the coaches drove vans. Parents brought their kids. Parents brought up their kids. We signed waivers, and that's when I was working at Stevens. And  so I, I, I  want I want to know what what's the worst case scenario? Inviting us to not do it and to to say because I if a lawyer would advise me not to leave the house every day, I didn't want to know. You know what I mean? So so.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I mean, I can speak to that. So basically, what was when you when you give up, when the expectation is that you should have transportation for something, particularly at

[R15003-123] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And that's why it's different. And that's why. Listen, I've. I've I've driven I've taken kids on a field trip on a great day to Colby Sawyer. My first year in the community center van, I had to move my insurance and things like that. I went with Principal Barry and a bunch of kids. It was wonderful, but that we couldn't do that in our own vehicle. You can do, you can. There are rules and regulations for different  transports,  and licensure and it's, it's it's tougher. So I agree I wish we had five more drivers.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Steve I think the only one thing that I would want to add to this, that to make it a little bit more, in essence, of being bulletproof because it's

[R15003-135] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair — elected vice chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Sean LaPlante: I didn't I didn't ask about that. But it is on their their school websites. And that's where I got the references from to to draft this one.
TEXT> So Mike, what's the difference if someone transports their own child.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You can transport your own child all day. That's your I mean so.

[R15003-136] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So Mike, what's the difference if someone transports their own child.
TEXT> You can transport your own child all day. That's your I mean so.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So how far.

[R15003-147] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23 to the one-year seat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So if.
TEXT> Let me just understand this so parents can legally drive their own children.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They they can what they what has to happen. The biggest thing it usually is on the way home. It's a very common thing. It's an away game. The parents

[R15003-148] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Let me just understand this so parents can legally drive their own children.
TEXT> They they can what they what has to happen. The biggest thing it usually is on the way home. It's a very common thing. It's an away game. The parents meet there and the kid doesn't want to go back with the team. They go back with the parents, they get a study and the like. So it's a long history of but not even as long up here as, as I was used to in Massachusetts of of them making sure they have the headcount so they don't leave the kid in any way. And that was just and emails even sufficed.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: And usually I just tell parents, don't like, send me a 32nd email and then make sure that the coach that you interact with the coach before you make the

[R15003-214] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Oh, yes. I assume that was already a fact, but you probably ask.
TEXT> So. So the so we did. Put that out. We went to the athletic director to see if we could get staff first. The idea being the biggest barrier is the time of day. A lot of people work. It's it's also the the biggest obstacle in all of this that we really didn't articulate is the distance to the games in that time. So you're really leaving many times at 130 in the afternoon and then committing to kind of a it's it's tough for most folks to access that. It's just tough to get people. So the idea, original idea is in a voluntary way, not contingent upon existing coaching contracts to entice people to grab some extra coin if they if they're going there anyway and they take a set amount of kids. This was our original intention, but we didn't. We didn't get a lot. And the busses were also in small.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: Yeah, we did talk about that briefly. And I know that for my coaches, they also have a full time job and the training will also be almost a full

[R15003-258] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: plan, because we've got something else to cover as well as part of it. So in section two, the plan seeks to uncover data about our facilities, such as the progression of programing, facility utilization, types of programs relative to market needs and growth potential.
TEXT> It'll look at enrollment data, explore the region ten agreements more. Examine how to maximize things like running start, bridge to college, local opportunities through River Valley Community College, or even local employers in section three. This is where the community engagement comes in, which is a big it's a very important piece to this process. This is where surveys would be administered, interviews and focus group sessions held with stakeholder groups, which would be defined. Those groups could include parents, students, businesses and municipal leaders. Saw faculty and administration, the board,  faculty from Newport. Perhaps the information will help feed a communication strategy so that all stakeholders are aware of the opportunities available through the center, and that could drive improvements going forward. In section four, we plan to examine facility space utilization. That includes an inventory of existing spaces and equipment, as well as an assessment of physical constraints that  would could determine the capacity for adding programs. For instance, the underutilized second floor might be evaluated in this section, and it could show the need for  a  facility feasibility study that for that could drive  future information for renovations. Section five examines funding mechanisms the committee felt in important to identify any possible funding source for programs, and ultimately for potential renovation needs that exist apart from  the potential for new program spaces.
NEXT> Andy: And finally, in section six, our plan examines potential success metrics that could be updated if they exist already or implemented if they don't, that would help provide data that

[R15003-264] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: do we engage the community in the process? And that's where we want to draw back and think about the broad variety of shareholders that we need to have engaged in these. So with that, you'll see that that includes regional business and industry partners.
TEXT> So who are the leaders and the employers of our future candidates once they graduate from the center? Also regional post-secondary education of leaders. So those who are also looking at how we provide access to get into the post-secondary programs that are available within the region, but also instructors. So we can think through seamless transitions as students would move from a high school to career tech program and then ultimately into post-secondary. The next piece that you see there are workforce leaders. So that could be a workforce investment board leader, others that help us understand the complexity of the labor market. And then, of course, we'll look at municipal and community partners. So those are basically your footprint partners that help us think about how we would expand access and of course, success to students involved in the program. So if you'll notice there, I have a line. And that line is intended to make sure that we have both components, those above the line and those four boxes that you see and then those that are unique to the district, those are the ones that you see below the line. So it's a given that we want to include district leaders, school leaders, administrators, teachers and counselors in this process so that we're a part of that process and understand the data and how it plays out, and then the questioning associated to go back and think about that overall engagement.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: So as we're looking at the makeup of the broader shareholder group. So that would go beyond the visioning committee. This is our recommendation to really try to strategically pull

[R15003-265] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: want to include district leaders, school leaders, administrators, teachers and counselors in this process so that we're a part of that process and understand the data and how it plays out, and then the questioning associated to go back and think about that overall engagement.
TEXT> So as we're looking at the makeup of the broader shareholder group. So that would go beyond the visioning committee. This is our recommendation to really try to strategically pull in these partners, keeping in mind that we want 50% of if we can get it from that top four boxes that you see there on the slide. Now, when we think through this engagement, we do want to go back to that touchpoint, the 2015 report, and give these shareholders an opportunity to review the data that's provided within that report, but also help us update. So from their viewpoint and their understanding of the community, what progress has been made? Also, what challenges or barriers do we see have bubbled up since that 2015 report will engage them in a process that we call a desktop audit, where we will bring new data to the  report. So basically updating that with labor market data, enrollment and results, so that we're setting the context to explore the career tech programs that are offered at the Technology Center. Then we would include a subset of that larger shareholder group to do campus visits to the tech center,  and also any feeder high schools within the area. And then your partnering tech center over at Newton, so that we can really get an understanding of the programs offered, how they're being accessed by students, and again, digging deeper into any barriers that may be there.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: And then finally, this shareholder group, the larger one, would be engaged in the review of the findings from the site visit, unpacking those. So again, going deeper, getting reconnected

[R15003-266] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: any feeder high schools within the area. And then your partnering tech center over at Newton, so that we can really get an understanding of the programs offered, how they're being accessed by students, and again, digging deeper into any barriers that may be there.
TEXT> And then finally, this shareholder group, the larger one, would be engaged in the review of the findings from the site visit, unpacking those. So again, going deeper, getting reconnected with those and moving into strategic planning. Now when we think through the second component, this is really helping us to think through why CTE is important and then how do we optimize those program offerings. So  it really interesting that once I looked at the location of both tech centers. So Claremont and the that you have huge overlap. When we look at the communities there's almost a direct overlap in the Venn diagram. So what you'll see there  with  small buildings, those are the actual tech center campuses. And then this is a commuter radius where we really try to dig in and have an understanding of the labor market within that region and the opportunities that we have for students within that region. So as we started to create the design, we also see that there are two hubs in place, one for Claremont and one for Newberg. The fun thing is, is that you all support the same students. So again, it's really important for us to look at the entire hub and all of this, the sending schools so that we have that understanding of access.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: And then how do we support additional students to complete programs across both campuses now as we move into the career pathway review, this is a focused visit that should

[R15003-267] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: Claremont and one for Newberg. The fun thing is, is that you all support the same students. So again, it's really important for us to look at the entire hub and all of this, the sending schools so that we have that understanding of access.
TEXT> And then how do we support additional students to complete programs across both campuses now as we move into the career pathway review, this is a focused visit that should be facilitates. We have a career pathway review process that we have used for years. So this has just recently been updated with updates to Perkins to match the components of the Comprehensive Local Needs Assessment. But this process has been around for years. So after a Be  started working with high schools in 1987, and we have many of our tools and processes that are used as a component. So as I said, for the career pathway review, so that onsite review of the two of them and the high schools, we would want to have a smaller subset group of the larger shareholder group that we just talked about for shareholder engagement. So with that, we'll have a smaller team that goes in. We would visit the different tech centers and also all feeder schools, and they come back together to basically compare notes and debrief and come up with, of course, our findings. So when we talk about findings, you'll see that bubble up into two components. One component would be strengths of existing programs.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: So things that we can build upon. And then he challenged and obstacles that we need to dress and make up for that strategic planning component. So with that we'd

