[R12315-381] Norm Blue | Public commenter, Ward 3 (ASR self-ID 'Norm blue in Ward three' [409]; | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Having a public and then Whitney. And I think we're getting ready to move on from this topic.
TEXT> On again that. That problem that he's referring to, that society today. Things have changed in the last 35 years. Excuse me. It's not only falling back on you folks, but it's also a community problem. And I don't know how  you're going to address it. Whether you're going to take a class in a psychologist or maybe somebody that understands this problem is going to try to take these students and show them that the course they're on right now just isn't working. And if they expect to get through life, they're going to have to change. But that problem there is not just Claremont. It's all over. And I travel a lot and I go through a lot of communities, and I know a lot of people and I've heard this many times, you know, you've got students that are living  in buildings that are dilapidated, order living with friends of theirs. But you'll find that in a lot of your communities where they've been mill towns and everything, because the parents aren't working or  what they are making is not enough to cover the kid, and the kid gets the blame for being the problem and so forth and so on. And that will never get answered. Even when they're up on their 50s, they'll still always look back and say, Mom and dad caused my problem, you know?
NEXT> Norm Blue: So it's a problem and you've got to catch it early in the stage of the student. When you start seeing that problem developing, that's when you've got to get

[R12315-402] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven' before this v | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: So Stevens sorry I.
TEXT> Asked this almost every time we do a schedule. So Mike probably knows what my question is, because we do have students that go over to Newport's tack. How are we aligned with them?
NEXT> Unidentified: We're.

[R12315-421] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven' before this v | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Stephen.
TEXT> I make a motion to accept the $8,000 for the scholarships of Stephen High School students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Second seconded by Whitney. Further discussion. Frank.

[R12315-581] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: maybe the elementary school principals combined or separate if need be, another meeting. The tech center director, just to I agree, a highlight of hey, these are the cool things we the field trip. We took the cool. So it's nice to have that rotation.
TEXT> Of student presentations like we did every once in a while and here and just make it a we discussed that as a central office team as well. And and everyone's on board.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Just real quick. And this can be a, a retreat thing. You had mentioned credentials for like some of the positions listed here, and I'm curious about others in the

[R12315-594] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Were.
TEXT> Aware that, Steven's high school was one of five schools in the state to receive a Teach United grant.  Very happy and excited  that the state considered our petition to look at improving culture and climate student engagement, at the high school with the means of, of improving,  the outcomes for students. So we begin that work with the state this summer. It's a two year,  plan. We work in conjunction with the Teacher United organization.  The first year is working with two administrators and six teachers,  to train the teachers as facilitators. The second year is to implement it school wide. So, and we have the a lot of great support from the Doe for that. And just excited that we were one out of five. We were their very first phone call. Great.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Thanks.

[R12315-605] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Ben can talk ab | 2022-04-06
PREV> Joshua: There's there's category.
TEXT> There's categories for  how to be I. That's exactly what I, I know you're thinking that Frank. That's what I'm not.  We're probably going to focus on  students 18 to 21 as sort of a transition work. Because one of the things that's that's going to change for,  not next year but the next, so that schools could budget accordingly is special ed. Students will now be eligible to stay with us until age 22. So my intention is to try to use that money to support the additional costs that are going to be in accrued by that and focus on transition. So I do.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Stephen. And then.

[R12353-100] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (calls the meeting to order [3] and runs the off | 2022-04-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: special needs where you were, you were guaranteed fate. And those are conditions regulated by New Hampshire. And we have to have those things in there. So Corydon currently has a tuition agreement as an anchor school with Newport through the end of next year.
TEXT> Claremont Unity have already set our two the tuition rates for 2023. That that I will talk about in a minute. And Richard has those those numbers we'll talk about. We're working. I didn't meet with  I've been meeting  we meet regularly as a superintendents  area group in the southwest. And in particular, I've had additional meetings with  the superintendent of Croydon, the superintendent of Newport sunup,  and we've been in discussions about possible impacts and things like that. And additionally, I have been in discussion with our legal counsel, Matt Upton, about  the situation and potential impacts.  Claremont Current. We currently have two students from Croydon.  We take students from from all area towns, and they're both seniors currently. And they are will will graduate next year. So next year we will have no students.  Some some and I have some of the recent articles  up there too that are posted on the web. If you just Google this, you you will see a lot of recent arguments that,  articles, there's articles just about every, every day in local papers. So,  the the gist of it is, is this,  there has been in those articles, they've mentioned that  it might be the case that,  Croydon,  has proposed that they have learning pods.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Friend and I have, have been a couple that I have read about in heard about that they are interested in doing that. They may not have enough money to

[R12353-101] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (calls the meeting to order [3] and runs the off | 2022-04-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: arguments that, articles, there's articles just about every, every day in local papers. So, the the gist of it is, is this, there has been in those articles, they've mentioned that it might be the case that, Croydon, has proposed that they have learning pods.
TEXT> Friend and I have, have been a couple that I have read about in heard about that they are interested in doing that. They may not have enough money  to honor  the existing tuition agreement at Newport. And again, this is all in the park in press. So, and  that that may be the option so that that's what's out there. No matter what we did, I did reach back out to them and said what we would, you know, we would meet with them. But I'm recommending obviously, it makes a lot more sense to do that after the the May meeting, because it could be a whole different world and things like that. And  and we would meet with anyone similar to what we did in the Goshen agreement just to see what the terms are. And I would, you know, obviously bring that back. We can't enter any agreements at all without board. It takes it took a long time to really work through  the terms in Goshen, particularly for unity, with  much, much more impact with about, you know, just around 100 students to scale.  Very. And we had a lot of meetings and a lot of really intense discussion about the,  you know, about that situation, different situation in terms of scale for Claremont to absorb the few students we anticipated.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And in doing that, we anticipated that over the next few years we would we would get maybe 10 or 15 students that could be absorbed between both schools, maybe

[R12353-102] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (calls the meeting to order [3] and runs the off | 2022-04-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: you know, just around 100 students to scale. Very. And we had a lot of meetings and a lot of really intense discussion about the, you know, about that situation, different situation in terms of scale for Claremont to absorb the few students we anticipated.
TEXT> And in doing that, we anticipated that over the next few years we would we would get maybe 10 or 15 students that could be absorbed between both schools, maybe 20 at max. That's what we projected.  Principal Schroeder did a lot of analysis. We talked to everyone.  Also, I forgot to say Goshen Superintendent Gail, I've also been in contact with. And so we haven't we have,  we already have a tuition agreement. It's already set. Was the number Richard was at 16,000,
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Just below 16, 59, 86.

[R12353-104] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (calls the meeting to order [3] and runs the off | 2022-04-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: Just below 16, 59, 86.
TEXT> Yeah. For for for high school students next year.  Significantly more than already already set than the 9000 that is talked about being so right now. We we we would be open to anything. We would. But in talking with council, we and we're all the superintendents are and even the superintendent association.  This is pretty unprecedented that that a budget has been cut like that. And I guess the inference is  and we obviously in New Hampshire, we all support local control and the concepts of it. And you have all exercise your local control in the adoption of the Goshen thing and every decision you make. So, that's that's just a synopsis of where we are. So it's just kind of weight and see and have have the meeting. And then I would bring that back to the board. But I that's a synopsis of that when we get to it for discussion, I don't have any more, I don't have any less but.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions or comments for the superintendent.

[R12353-107] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (calls the meeting to order [3] and runs the off | 2022-04-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just curious if you know, pending on what the outcome of the meeting is. So are they desiring to increase their budget back to the 1.6? And if they don't, will they have enough funds to actually pay for tuition.
TEXT> So that that's what.  So as I, as I read it and as I hear it and as we anticipate, I don't know where they're going to go or what they're going to say in that meeting. First they have to get the the worry now is that they're not going to enough going to get enough people there,  to make it happen. I think there were only 30 people in the in the vote where this went down or, or something like that. So that that's, that's that's one point I don't know anything about the dollar figures. I do know is, is people have speculated kind of the backwards design that, that the, the, the number of, of the 9000 or 10,000 just divided by the almost identical number of kids in unity, about 80 or 85 kids,  that's how they came up with that, that it would be about 9 or 10,000 per kid. And that that's all I know about it. I don't want to. I haven't watched the meetings, which are you can, you know, log in and see it. I haven't followed it that closely. I just, you know, had a few calls from the public and I wanted a few inquiries from the board, so I wanted to put it right out there. So kind of where we are and where we stand.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It really could happen anywhere with low, low voter turnout. If people don't show up, it could happen. I remember there are opportunities in Claremont years past where we're lucky

[R12353-191] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 technology staff member presenting the data and p | 2022-04-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Perfect okay. Moving for any last questions on the budget data governance plan.
TEXT> So I have your thick packet.  So every year we should be presenting this  to the board for approval. Essentially, it's just it's the process of how we manage and secure all our data in, most importantly, how we protect all students and staff  personal identifiable information.  If this goes into great detail,  it's part of House Bill 1612. So I'm just asking for board approval, for this piece.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So has there been any legal changes that we need to be concerned with, or how are we covered?

[R12353-193] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 technology staff member presenting the data and p | 2022-04-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: So has there been any legal changes that we need to be concerned with, or how are we covered?
TEXT> Nothing that is in here. There's been some added pieces that we've done by joining the New Hampshire Student Privacy Alliance, which pretty much means any piece of software that we are using goes through them to make sure,  they get a signed legal document between them and us that they're not selling to students. They're not emailing students.  But the process this really goes into more of a highlight as to who's on a team, who's on the data governance team and so forth.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: But we'll be in compliance with any Doe audits or anything like that by approving this document as it sits.

[R12353-554] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (gives the financial updat | 2022-04-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: is so that I'm better prepared for the next meeting of the action. I have a better idea, but my understanding is, is that tuitions are contracted. Correct. So they're locked in. They have to figure out how they're going to pay for it. Correct.
TEXT> They're contracted, as we know the child is coming to us.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So in the event that something magically happened in Goshen, it's either payer. We don't know what now what liability does that? Has that liability question been discussed with. Yeah.

[R12353-558] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) and SAU 6 treasurer ('this board gracio | 2022-04-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So the, what happens if you know Ken, can Croydon vacate the tuition agreement they currently have? Now, if they only have 9000 go to pods, that's what we don't know what's going to happen to vote. But that's that's why all eyes are on.
TEXT> My concern was the liability. Because once we've taken that child in for we've made a commitment.  That's that child. But if we're not getting the contract side of it, getting paid, our obligation is still there to that child, in my opinion, which.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Everyone's that's that on everyone's.

[R12353-567] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (gives the financial updat | 2022-04-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The.
TEXT> Finding ourselves in. Yeah. That's right. Now we don't have any both of our Croydon students, our seniors.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Yeah. Installment plans doesn't make sense when you approve the budget once.

[R12353-608] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (medium - explains the DHHS frien | 2022-04-21
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> The argument that's being made is that da s  is, is,  not responding to their legal obligation to support students, right, that live in the home and families that struggle.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: In the past. If if someone gets placed out of district, the student has has issues and they're placed out of district, the state has picked up a portion of

[R12353-609] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board Vice Chair (Claremont) (elected vice chair at this meeting | 2022-04-21
PREV> Ben Nester: The argument that's being made is that da s is, is, not responding to their legal obligation to support students, right, that live in the home and families that struggle.
TEXT> In the past. If if someone gets placed out of district, the student has has issues and they're placed out of district, the state has picked up a portion of that expense.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: To call up one of order. Starting to turn this into a discussion. Okay.

[R12366-22] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the the plan presented by Principal Romeo at the middle school and then also the plan for from Principal Barrie and incoming Principal Pratt for the high school at the middle school. So the first positions that we have are the two long term subs.
TEXT> Okay. So that we would have people there all the time knowing and predicting and so that there would be  staff on board who could also help out in the academic center, three campus aides  in the cost of those, again mimicking the program that has been  successful at Stevens High School, where we have campus aides  going out and around and helping to  understand student issues, we wrap around supports for the administrative team and the students, and also to  just to basically have more and more bodies in there so that they can handle, you know, things that come up on a daily basis  in the middle school, including,  you know,  bullying and other types of things that have been  topical throughout the country and certainly throughout our region. So that was very much in mind by Principal Romeo. And again, pushing in the academic center with the dean of students model. The idea of that was that we would seek a science, math or English certified  teacher and have them actually provide support or use existing staff  at the the  the price level, about 55,000. We thought that would be  and have them either staff and be in there as a drop in support  or also  to to cut class size similar to what we're doing at the high school.  The other last position that's in there, that is one that was  talked about in the deliberative session, and that was the the guidance counselor.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We looked at where the best place to put that would be in a I think we presented to you fairly thoroughly in the previous meeting exactly how we're where

[R12366-25] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: folks trained in, and it's very exciting. But the the other elements of of any alternative program, how you try to intercede before there's it's a terminal situation with students, meaning that they've, they've failed to many semesters or portions of that they're losing credit.
TEXT> What we're trying to do. Also with these people who are going to be in the academic center is to have them working with staff or even hiring other people with Esser money to develop units so that you can chunk out what the kid is deficient in their unit by unit. So it's not a cumulative effect for a quarter or for  the end of  or the end of a term so that they're completely out of the race. And I say this, I haven't been in high schools  for a long time, and  it's amazing to me that we still have kids looking to graduate who are suddenly taking, not suddenly it they're taking 2 or 3 Englishes their senior year. And obviously they didn't do well with English before, and it's just to intercede suiter and and stuff that we  have been successful in the past and just to focus on that. So that's, that's the that's the intent with that on the other side of when these things would sunset or go away, right, and not be in the budget. So,  we, you see in the column there that we have to sunset these folks for the year ending 25 budget  and everyone in the  middle school,  that is our plan to do that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Of course, we have time to assess and see if in future budgets we want to adopt that. But the plan right now is just to keep it right there.

[R12366-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to just have a running tally on these slides for ease of presentation. So those two programs are a 1.3 million. Again we have on the next slide, which I'll show I'll go through the whole thing if you don't mind, just while it's fresh.
TEXT> And then we can go back and focus in on questions and take your notes as we, as we go. So  so that that gets us to 1.3 this next slide. All right. So you see the tail end. That's a repeat of  I had two okay. So this is the tail end. But it's also the cumulative total that we worked on  this week to have that. So you see the tally of the extra FTEs that are in here that are all on the federal money dime at 27 in the lower left. But the last section is what we're doing for district wide. And you, we happen to be here at the right time to meet our literacy  specialist who was coming in today, who's on board.  And that's all those are funded positions we still have  posted. And we're looking for the math specialist,  the data grant specialist,  additional truancy officer, an additional nurse  two speech. And I really liked this proposal  from the elementary  teachers. And I'll talk about that as well to have  a couple of  speech specialists, a couple of Codas and tier two academic interventions that would rotate through the elementary schools, kind of keeping all of those interventions for the for the group of students, almost like a,  not you could push in as needed directly for kids who needed intensive needs, but to do it as something that's a special in the wheel so that everyone gets it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Because that's what we're seeing in groups. We're seeing behaviors elementary, middle and high that we haven't seen. And we do think it's a correlated to, you know, just just

[R12366-28] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: all of those interventions for the for the group of students, almost like a, not you could push in as needed directly for kids who needed intensive needs, but to do it as something that's a special in the wheel so that everyone gets it.
TEXT> Because that's what we're seeing in groups. We're seeing behaviors elementary, middle and high that we haven't seen. And we do think it's a  correlated to,  you know, just just being out of the fray. A lot of kids haven't been in school for a couple of years and the like. So that that's the rationale on that  bus drivers, we needed to we don't have enough bus drivers. We have enough busses, we have enough infrastructure. But we want to make sure that we have other sub bus drivers ready to go.  And  it's it's it's just sorely needed. So that's that's how we looked at again on the first  pass of, of the Esser money. So I'll go through the lines that you, you see on, on the right again, the first  block in the upper right hand corner of your screen. And for viewers at home is what we just covered for the total of the middle school and high school. Everything else is in district wide, but  predominantly the speech, Coda and tier two academic interventionists were  absolutely targeted for the  elementary school. And and we thought that  particularly Principal Lewis who here had they it's a good way to spread the it's a good way to have in your rotation where a student who needs interventions, where the staff is extra, staff is coming on a regular basis.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You can swap out. It's just it's a it's a clever way to do that in a cost effective manner. When you look at the lines, okay, so you saw

[R12366-31] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: our plan was, as requested by the board. So and I think, okay, I get bigger, bigger, more colorful slides, all right, that even I can see from here, up there. So basically all I did was that was our current staffing on the left.
TEXT> And to show in the summary in the middle are actually, you know, we'll see those as good as here. So  the staff is the type one staff. That's but the,  the the ratio of staff currently at the middle school. And again this I didn't do a student teacher  ratio. This is the entire whole  staff. You see custodians you see everyone in there. I just wanted to give you a ratio to look at, to see where we were. So basically there's 62  people in the building right now. We're going to add the nine to get to 71 and our ratio and kind of keeping the learning community and having  more staff around to to  assist the administrative staff with student issues with other types of interventions. We would have the nine extra members and that that ratio would pop down fairly dramatically to 5.3.  So so that there's just more staff around for things as they come up. So that's that's how these slides are. I apologize for the left hand margins. I just wanted to show you that everything's in there and that what is highlighted that is cut in on the right is exactly what you saw on the slides before.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's the exact same price. Okay. So one more slide I'm sorry. All right. So and then the next the next the next slides I have that those are the

[R12366-35] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (onset of her question continued at [75] | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Sorry. Before we get to questions, I'm going to officially move to item number one under Discussion and Action Items, which is yes. Or fund use projection for 22 to 24. Summary. So now we're ready for discussion. Litany.
TEXT> Well, can we see over the next. Couple of years before the end of fiscal year 25, like an annual where we are,  where we came from, where we're going on this, especially for the positions that we seek to eliminate at the end of fiscal year 25 and the one and the dean of students positions, I really would like to see stay if we can make it happen. We'll have to figure it out then. But I'm also very worried about the,  the specialist positions, the literacy specialist and the math specialist. Those seem like they just off the top of my head seem like nice to have around long term. But at the same time,  the I expected the literacy specialist and the math specialist would have the capability and expertise to build in some kind of long term programs that could be delivered without them there. But those are the two the, the learning center, the what it's called the learning centers, people and the specialist literacy and math and even the data grant specialist are the ones that I would be the most sad to see gone. So I would like to see how we're doing along the way and if we're going to need them, and if we are what we're how we're going to do that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I agree, and I also think there are very fair points made at the last meeting that we we track the positions. I like what we spoke about at the

[R12366-36] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: specialist are the ones that I would be the most sad to see gone. So I would like to see how we're doing along the way and if we're going to need them, and if we are what we're how we're going to do that.
TEXT> I agree, and I also think there are very fair points made at the last meeting that we we track the positions. I like what we spoke about at the retreat, about having having some of these committees ongoing all the time, the budget things and having. So you can always see where that is just being more transparent with that. And there's not a position on here that we don't wish we had all the time. And,  and, and again, this, this is where we are with, with the outside money coming in.  If we had it to do, you know,  right away we would probably do most everything here. I think some of it is certainly in response to student behaviors and the other things that we're seeing on the behavioral side. But we always have and we always have, you know, the ability to have discussions about what would stay and what would go in. I, I agree, but it's not without, you know, a review process and the like an open discussion about all of those things. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Okay.

[R12366-57] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Exactly.
TEXT> So we know that traditionally those services are only available to students who have qualified for special education. And so the the gap at that point is pretty significant. The goal of these positions would be to intervene at the earliest moment possible and prevent getting to the point of special education.  The other point, the other piece with this level of early intervention in these two areas, I think when people hear speech and language and occupational therapy, they think of the traditional services that they provide. There are so many other,  skills related to speech, language and to occupational therapy that tie into social skills, that tie in to just motor planning.  That, again, can cause significant either peer concerns, which then translates into behavior, or  just general frustration in navigating a school environment when you're that little, which also then translates into frustration and behavior at the earliest level. So the purpose of these would be to be as proactive as possible, kind of a response to to intervention model kiddos who show the slightest deficit. We intervene right then and there so that that deficit does not grow, because they're not necessarily traditional skills that are taught during math, reading, science, or social studies.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So who does the screening?

[R12366-61] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we don't have these screening services available at all.
TEXT> Now we have them available to students who are already identified or going through the special education process.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So how do those students get identified?

[R12366-62] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Now we have them available to students who are already identified or going through the special education process.
TEXT> So how do those students get identified?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: They would go through the formal special education evaluation process. So they would, for example, come. I can speak to Disney. So a teacher would make a referral to our

[R12366-63] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So how do those students get identified?
TEXT> They would go through the formal special education evaluation process. So they would, for example, come.  I can speak to Disney.  So a teacher would make a referral to our assistance team.  We're not always able to given that those are tied to special education funds, they can service special education students or students who are in need of those services. This would allow us to intervene quickly rather than going through the formal special ed process, if that. If that immediate intervention wasn't enough, then we would move to to special education. But we're trying to get to a full blown special education of al and diagnosis.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I guess what I'm trying to figure out or understand more clearly is so currently the model is, is that the teacher identifies somebody that they believe needs an assessment.

[R12366-70] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Potentially to the special ed evaluation team if needed.
TEXT> So currently so changing that model, we would evaluate every student that comes through.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Potentially the other piece of of it being part of a a normal aspect of a kindergarten classroom, for example, would be that, you know, 30 minutes, maybe one time

[R12366-77] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we're already screening.
TEXT> So we're already doing a baseline screening of all of our incoming kindergartners. To some degree it's not a full evaluation. It is a true screening. And then if if there are deficits shown there, they fall into, maybe they're categorized right into terms of even if you think of a color coding system, the red alerts, right. Like there were significant concerns. We need to be we need to have things in place right away. Well, those concerns could be simply due to exposure as well. And with a media intervention that that red alert could come down to, child just needs a little bit more with some intense services right away without going through  putting a kindergartner, for example, through a full special education. Val, you could also have kiddos who the some level of concern is identified. And again, if we can intervene right away. Hopefully it prevents them from getting into a special education evaluation. So that screening piece is in place. Currently. It's currently every incoming kindergarten are screened.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: I don't think this is necessarily a bad thing, but based on this model you're speaking at, because we've never had a a model where a child could be screened

[R12366-78] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Frank Sprague: 'similar to what Whitney | 2022-05-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: also have kiddos who the some level of concern is identified. And again, if we can intervene right away. Hopefully it prevents them from getting into a special education evaluation. So that screening piece is in place. Currently. It's currently every incoming kindergarten are screened.
TEXT> I don't think this is necessarily a bad thing, but based on this model you're speaking at, because we've never had a a  model where a child could be screened and then get the services quickly without being identified as special education. There's no way for us to truly have a baseline on, on, on our data for this right now, because the way the model works now,  the students get screened for kindergarten, and then they're either not identified as special ed or they are  assessed.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So in our current model, for example, this year's screenings that occurred this past fall, if our speech language pathologist or aide had availability in their schedule, which is essentially

[R12366-79] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: There's no way for us to truly have a baseline on, on, on our data for this right now, because the way the model works now, the students get screened for kindergarten, and then they're either not identified as special ed or they are assessed.
TEXT> So in our current model, for example, this year's screenings that occurred this past fall,  if our speech language pathologist or aide had availability in their schedule, which is essentially a no, there are pretty packed. Or if we,  for example, an incoming kindergarten that had some significant articulation concerns, if we could add them to a group without deterring in any way from the services that we're providing, students who are identified, we might be able to sneak them in a little bit, but that's not the norm. The norm is our related service providers are booked through their responsibilities through special education. So no, we wouldn't have the the baseline data currently. What we would have would be,  screening results. And how many of those kiddos that that we saw deficits in kindergarten screenings then went on to become identified through special education. We certainly would have that, you know, with some back work. But this would this would be you're exactly right. This would be very different.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Okay. But it's good that we do have that, that screening data from historical screening data. So just trying to build together an analysis plan, we could look at the

[R12366-83] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Ben, is a question for you, I guess. Yeah. So  in some of these situations, I'm assuming that children would be flagged, that may or may not reach a threshold where intervention would make any difference long term. And so my concern is, is that we would be providing interventions for children that don't necessarily need them just because they were identified at a low level. I'm saying this because I had a child who had a speech deficit, and basically the treatment was, let's wait and see how it works out.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yep.

[R12366-97] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: That's a good question. I'd have to think on that one.
TEXT> I would think one metric might be if you're exiting kids, you know, if you've got kids you identified and they're coming out at some point. Sorry for speaking out of turn.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I'm just looking for, you know, I'm afraid that there's not going to be a system by which to evaluate success and failure.

[R12366-99] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: No, I'm just looking for, you know, I'm afraid that there's not going to be a system by which to evaluate success and failure.
TEXT> And can I speak to that a little bit? Yeah,  I would have to respectfully disagree. I don't think we're looking to provide services that aren't needed. No one in our settings have time for that, nor do we want to be,  pulling students away from from their normal curriculum so that that's not our intention in any way, shape or form. We know the direct correlation between speech, language articulation, phonological awareness and early literacy. And so if we can ensure that there are no gaps for children, we're ensuring that they're getting a solid start to reading, for example. So when we start small groups, they run for about six weeks a traditional intervention group of any kind. And we run intervention groups for reading and math. Currently, every day  we tend to start with a six week intervention model. There's  again, what gets you into that group. There's predetermined criteria for that. The interventions determine its delivered for six weeks. And if the exit criteria is met then the child exits that intervention. If we find they're not making gains we intervene far sooner with something that's more intensive. So that's a cycle that's constantly looked at, even in our given a given day to day math and reading interventions. And this wouldn't be any different.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So globally, how would we evaluate year to year the success of the program?

[R12366-106] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Yes I see what you're saying. Yes.
TEXT> This is the piece that I'm kind of grappling with is that we're now moving this international students as an early intervention for traditional students.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So the kinds of data that we track on intervention groups currently, for informal uses in our building before our, for example, our data meetings, we track the child's attendance

[R12366-107] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: This is the piece that I'm kind of grappling with is that we're now moving this international students as an early intervention for traditional students.
TEXT> So the kinds of data that we track on intervention groups currently,  for informal uses in our building before our, for example, our data meetings, we track the child's attendance to that group. So we know. So yes, we might plan a six week intervention, but due to absences, how many sessions did they really receive?  We track who's able to exit at that point. Do they need to go to a more intensive group or are they moving to a more advanced group? So that's all kind of informally done. That absolutely can be formalized. That's not a that's not a challenge in any way.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think that's what satisfy me.

[R12366-111] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: So I'm going to jump in or did you still.
TEXT> Yeah. Just I just one of the things I think that  I want to piggyback on what Heather said because, you know, having had kids, myself and the doctor saying, just wait, you know, it'll it'll work itself out like my son never crawled, for example. He just went from doing this to walking. Is there's a there's a guy on the radio the other day is promoting a book he wrote, and it was it had to do with speech, which I found interesting. And he was talking about the fact that young babies, nursing babies, their larynx is in a position so that when they're drinking, they can drink and breathe at the same time. And that larynx begins a journey and actually moves in the throat and it doesn't go by, you know, a set clock. And so and it can have impacts on a kid. But everybody winds up at this point here. It's just some people arrive at different times. And I was thinking about that all the all the speech language pathologist we do and where we do all of this stuff, we're something it's really physiological.  So I kind of echo the, you know, from what I've heard from pediatricians that we, I sometimes I think we overreact to and I've heard people here say that, when they've had their kids referred that they've been offered a, you know, the, you know, buffet of, of different  options.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I just I agree that it's going to be really hard because we can say, well, that worked, but how do we know that the kid didn't just develop.

[R12366-112] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: you know, from what I've heard from pediatricians that we, I sometimes I think we overreact to and I've heard people here say that, when they've had their kids referred that they've been offered a, you know, the, you know, buffet of, of different options.
TEXT> So I just I agree that it's going to be really hard because we can say, well, that worked, but how do we know that the kid didn't just develop.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Versus.

[R12366-132] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: We actually would be doing the screening.
TEXT> Right. So like Michael right. Can't diagnose but he can work under the direction of of a diagnosing OTC.  So the so the our speech and language pathologists and we we we have we have gone from 12 speech and language personnel in the last few years down to like nine. We've cut four positions. So we're, we're we're grossly leaner than we used to be back in 1819 as an example. But but currently our speech and language pathologist do attend the student assistance teams when they can. And so they're the ones that would would do the screening.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So this actually doesn't increase our screening capacity.

[R12366-137] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Upset it increases the intervention capacity.
TEXT> But it does not increase the number of students that we're able to screen.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: No, that's not the assistance is in my recollection, from my short time that I worked years ago in the school system as an assistant. I can go to the

[R12366-154] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to push in and there has to be more creative ways. If when we're trying to capture all it's not going to be what we it's not going to be a pull out. We don't have enough rooms to pull out and do other sections.
TEXT> We we will try to embed these things like in opposite a gym class, and have people have eyes on and try to have a team approach and all the other things. So it's so it seems there's other models in which to do that, so  that, so that everyone our goal isn't as I think just to put it in brass tax. We're not trying to have the numbers swell so that we're creating something that we can't manage later. We're trying to. Theory of action is that we hope if we intervene sooner, particularly with kids who haven't been the traditional setting, all the behaviors we're seeing, all the all of the acting out and all the other stuff similar to the middle school and the high school models. We're just all in earlier and we will look at the entry, what our historic numbers are, how many kids do we service, how the plans, how we've diminished, the number of plans. Those are the criteria by which we could evaluate. But this we just wanted to be as fast as possible, show you everything that we were thinking of.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I also say that we, you know, we we we I can almost guarantee you, I hope it goes as perfectly as I hope we keep getting quality people

[R12366-160] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: for the sake of this, what I, you know, described here as a quasi research study, or a quasi experimental research design, I refer to pre-K students or the early childhood students as attenders and those that did not attend, we call them non attenders.
TEXT> So we we looked at it or I looked at it, in two, two forms. One, I looked at students that went through,  a childhood and then, and then went into pre-K. And how did they perform on I ready scores administered in the spring as kindergartners for every data set that's available?  And then we tried to look at it with a more longitudinal approach, which was a bit longitudinal. Perhaps  it was really just two cohorts that made sense. We had 16, 17, which is when the program, as it currently exists, came into development. And so we looked at the 1617 pre-K cohort up through third grade and then the 1718 up through second grade, and it made sense to use I ready for this because the the the the New Hampshire stat sass is not administered until third grade. So we just didn't have have that Whitney.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Were these analyzes done at the student level, like with individual student scores or at the aggregate level with some kind of summary statistics?

[R12366-161] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Frank Sprague: 'similar to what Whitney | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: up through third grade and then the 1718 up through second grade, and it made sense to use I ready for this because the the the the New Hampshire stat sass is not administered until third grade. So we just didn't have have that Whitney.
TEXT> Were these analyzes done at the student level, like with individual student scores or at the aggregate level with some kind of summary statistics?
NEXT> Ben Nester: We started at the student level, right? So we we gleaned all the data from the system from their, their servers going back to 1617 or 1718, rather. And then

[R12366-162] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Were these analyzes done at the student level, like with individual student scores or at the aggregate level with some kind of summary statistics?
TEXT> We started at the student level, right? So we we gleaned all the data from the system from their, their servers going back to 1617 or 1718, rather. And then  my assistant and I want to give Leslie Peabody a shout out. I told her I would because she spent a boatload of time sorting and conditional formatting and doing a lot of the spreadsheet work on this to help me with it. But ultimately we just I decided to average the average, all the the scores. And that gives us sort of a layman's look at the information.  And what we used. Again, you can look at it in a million different ways. You could look at it in terms of a percentile, which we're familiar with. But in this case we use what we call a  an overall scaled score. And these are scale scores developed by the assessment. There. So the numbers don't mean a lot. And I'll talk about that in a minute. But let me just stand up here.  Essentially what we're looking at is the purpose of the presentation or the data that I'm here was to look at the tenders  versus nonattendance. And so I didn't I didn't offer descriptors as to this low, you know, this highs in in the middle.
NEXT> Ben Nester: But it's just a straight look at attenders versus nonattendance. And I'll just explain the first one. And then we can quickly go through the others, you know if that

[R12366-170] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Great question.
TEXT> Turn to appendix. Number C okay. Is it not picking up. Yeah. So if if you look if you look at appendix C. Now something to point out is this is the I ready assessment placement tables for 2122. Every year. They update these a little bit right based on their normal population. So I'm not going to hang my hat on these scores. But generally speaking these are accurate descriptors. And so if if we're looking at let's let's look at math for an example. If you just look at the very first page where it says overall math K to eight all and integrated at the top you have student grades. So we're going to look at the kinder because that's what that's the cohort we're looking at here.  And let's so let's say 3352 for those that intended, you can see that they actually fall into the emerging, the emerging kindergarten or range in terms of how they describe it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R12366-184] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: No. That helps. Yeah.
TEXT> Just to get a little more granular on this, if you look down at the bottom of that second page that you're on, on overall math, you can see it delineates between early nit and late, right. And gets a little more specific with the with the score ranges. So we we administer I ready in the fall, winter and spring am I right. Not in kindergarten. So what I knowing that because I did I only looked at spring I already scores right. So this doesn't include fall or winter administration only only spring. So for our purposes here we'd only be looking at the late descriptor. Right. That's what we'd want to see. Kids. Okay. That makes sense.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yep.

[R12366-186] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> Okay. Any other questions on the the nuts and bolts of it? Okay.  So I'm just going to cruise through these because we see a very similar trend that aligns up with the first slide here. So we, we I broke out the data. And here we're just looking at regular  students right now that specialized students don't perform as well. Typically we took them out because it's going to skew the data. And we're looking at those regular Ed students that attended and not attended. We see very similar results. The Nonattendance, in fact, perform higher on standardized tests for both math and and ratings. So for this cohort, we also looked at special ed students. And we saw the same,  actually a slightly different trend here. And the tenders.
NEXT> Unidentified: Were for the reading that we saw the same.

[R12366-197] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Which which I will say going into this that was my my personal hypothesis is that we would see our attenders and non attenders with very similar scores. Right. Knowing that we tend to serve a, you know, a struggling population of students in pre-K, right. That their gap they would have started. They start here. The non attenders started here and then pre came to close the gap. And they would sort of be in a you know equilibrium at some point. The trend continues. We didn't administer it in 1920 because of the shutdown. 2021. Same trend here. We have the opposite which this is the only case. We see special.
NEXT> Unidentified: Ed students.

[R12366-198] Unidentified | Unidentified - large mixed cluster: pledge, seconds, 'aye' votes, roll | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: gap. And they would sort of be in a you know equilibrium at some point. The trend continues. We didn't administer it in 1920 because of the shutdown. 2021. Same trend here. We have the opposite which this is the only case. We see special.
TEXT> Ed students.
NEXT> Ben Nester: In 20.

[R12366-208] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Is there any way to flesh out of the percentage of students that qualified the 42.8 for Food direct certification, where they more likely to be special ed students or the traditional model students in the program? Because to me that that would make a big that that that would change the way I look at the data.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah.

[R12366-226] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Have that available.
TEXT> Another item worth considering is that currently our model is a no cost offering for qualifying students and then those that are on the wait list. And so,  my speculation there is that we tend to attract families that can't afford, you know,  the two other pre-K programs in town.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And what do you mean, no cost to qualifying families.

[R12366-238] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: You know.
TEXT> That identifies kiddos  birth to three that have some kind of developmental delay. And there are some cases I don't have the numbers today, but there are some cases where a student was receiving services through pathways, which is, you know, an arm or which is S, and then  was discharged under their criteria before entering. But there was some kind of underlying developmental delay, but they just didn't quite meet that threshold for, for services as they, as they came to us. And then there's also a few cases where we have a student that was under s as needing services. And then when they came to us and we were required to respond to that referral, they didn't they did not, in fact, meet criteria for special education services. Those are a few. There's a few cases I can think of this year, but those are they're not terribly frequent. Yeah. So so point being, there is some kind of underlying delay, but it wasn't at the threshold that allowed us.
NEXT> Unidentified: To.

[R12366-240] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: To.
TEXT> Identify them as needing services,  other items. So there was a question about the paras and related service folks in the program. We we currently have seven paraprofessionals. They're there to support students across the learning environment.  They'll offer carryover services as needed.  They're there to, to manage behavior, problem solve.  You know, just sort of support the, the general classroom routines at the direction of the teacher. Certainly there's some diapering and bathroom work that goes on at the pre-K level, as you might imagine.  And then they they do support, you know, academic groups and things of that nature.  Currently we have about four students, or we do have four students that you would, you know, describe as severely disabled and require one on one support for, you know, for safety or feeding reasons. And, you know, just being able to navigate the environment.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Does that mean that there's only three pairs available for the rest of the student population.

[R12366-242] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Does that mean that there's only three pairs available for the rest of the student population.
TEXT> In theory, but in application. Right. If if one of the one on ones student is in a safe place in their wheelchair, whatever the situation may be, they're also in the same room with other kids they're going to they're going to jump in and help out, you know, they're going to they're going to do what.
NEXT> Unidentified: They can. So, yeah.

[R12366-244] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (leads pledge and runs the meeting [1-20] | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: They can. So, yeah.
TEXT> So do you have I mean, there are four severely impaired students. Are they able to perform the tests that are. I know so so their scores are not reflected in here.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Correct. Okay. They wouldn't be students that students that have a pretty serious intellectual disability would qualify for an alternative assessment to the high ready.

[R12366-245] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: So do you have I mean, there are four severely impaired students. Are they able to perform the tests that are. I know so so their scores are not reflected in here.
TEXT> Correct. Okay. They wouldn't be students that students that have a pretty serious intellectual disability would qualify for an alternative assessment to the high ready.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So those scores are not there.

[R12366-249] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Affecting this data. Yeah okay.
TEXT> Good point. All right. Related service providers currently have a full time coda. We have a full time SLA. And then we have a part time SLA that that floats in and out, works in other buildings as well to provide services. These services are offered in group or one on one.  We've tended to move more toward group  direct instruction in recent years as we've reduced the number of  related service in the district,  just to deal with the capacity issue. And then also because of the, the original design of, of pre-K going back to 1617,  these service providers support the regular Ed kids there knowing that, you know, youngsters three and four year olds like you guys have talked about, you know, may not be fully developed in terms of language. They need a little bit of boost and  they offer that. And they describe that as integrated centers where you may have some special ed students, also some regulated students that are.
NEXT> Unidentified: Kind of.

[R12366-254] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: than not with these two, with these two childcare preschool providers, the parents will bring the kiddo to our program for sort of the targeted special ed services and then bring them back to their, their, their private program. This is not include daycare facilities.
TEXT> Do we have any idea what the capacity of those programing those programs are doing, this kind of how that might impact the data of our non attendees? I mean, are they 150 students, you know or are they the student? I guess you understand.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah I don't know I don't know if anyone in the community.

[R12366-258] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: In the, in the
TEXT> Any different age cohort. Figure 110 or 120 kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I'm talking about in the preschool programs.

[R12366-261] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> Journal, the private rooms. So if we were if we were looking, if we were trying to think of how the data might have been contaminated for the non attendees that were actually attendees, if there are big schools, I mean, I don't know, I mean, if their kids with 100 students then that would mean to me would be contaminating the non attendee portion. But if they're kind of reasonably small programs I wouldn't see it as you know, a.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah.

[R12366-268] Unidentified | Unidentified - large mixed cluster: pledge, seconds, 'aye' votes, roll | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Like 30.
TEXT> Students.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Maybe 45, 30, 45 pending.

[R12366-270] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Joshua Lambert: Maybe 45, 30, 45 pending.
TEXT> Yeah. When you were about 60 total, you hear half special ed, half regular Ed, roughly speaking. Head start again, federal, federal early childhood program that you're sure you're aware of? Students  we have right now we have about give or take, 38 special ed students in in the early childhood program. 30 of those are  on site with us half day. And.
NEXT> Unidentified: 30 of.

[R12366-273] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: the memorandum of understanding we have with Head Start, something I sign every, every 2 or 3 years that outlines, you know, our legal responsibilities versus theirs. And it's pretty straightforward. You know, there were responsible for a special ed. They're not and it articulates.
TEXT> Arrangement are the Head Start program. I'm sorry. That was what are the Head Start programs required to flex per federal mandate to accommodate all low income students that are seeking those kind of pre-K services. I guess what I'm saying.
NEXT> Unidentified: Is, I.

[R12366-277] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Like, is.
TEXT> This is this Head Start program allow all low income families that want to have their child attend preschool to be able to attend preschool, or does that shift some of the onus on us to absorb those students financially?
NEXT> Ben Nester: That's a great question. I don't know if anyone knows the.

[R12366-283] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: To try.
TEXT> To help with some of these. So, she said she, I asked her if she knew kind of a rough idea about, how many kiddos those two preschool programs do service, she believes, anywhere from 15 to 18. And that sounds about right. Did licensing guidelines for the state of New Hampshire for those programs? Some go part time and so they might service more children, but they might only go a part time. And then the same with Green Mountain, she said. And she said no. To to your question, Heather, that they're not obligated to flex.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: About how many Erin head start. Does she know? Because I contacted them and they never contacted me back.

[R12366-287] Unidentified | Unidentified - large mixed cluster: pledge, seconds, 'aye' votes, roll | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. Mrs. Jarvis couldn't be with us today. She's taking a course part of her master's program, but she is on call, and I made sure that she would respond.
TEXT> To that. Not a lot of kids.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Pretty straightforward. I won't go through this. You. Yeah. All right, so potential actions and then I'm absolutely want to take any further questions. So given the data we looked

[R12366-326] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Is to.
TEXT> Have students be ready or, or better ready to access the curriculum as they enter.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Isn't it special ed students? What's that? Special ed students.

[R12366-327] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Have students be ready or, or better ready to access the curriculum as they enter.
TEXT> Isn't it special ed students? What's that? Special ed students.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Special ed, and then the regular ed kiddos.

[R12366-330] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: The whole group.
TEXT> I was under the impression the regular were there simply as model students.
NEXT> Ben Nester: They they are. But but they're also there to receive services and supports to. We would like to see them, you know, be better positioned for kindergarten first etc. because

[R12366-332] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: They they are. But but they're also there to receive services and supports to. We would like to see them, you know, be better positioned for kindergarten first etc. because of the, the programing.
TEXT> So so another another variable that wasn't up there is  I wonder about attendance. How often are kids there? Are they or are they there every day?  Are they benefiting? So what's that's that's missing?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. I don't know the attendance data. Yeah, yeah.

[R12366-339] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (leads pledge and runs the meeting [1-20] | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Sure.
TEXT> So, I would I would think the hard, the hard thing we can't tell is what level these students, the, the attenders would be at if they didn't attend, if we didn't have the program. I  personally feel like the gap probably much larger. I mean, the gap is fairly small between the attenders and not attenders that I would I would consider it significant. But I would think that gap would be much larger if the attenders hadn't attended. Is that I mean, in your professional opinion?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, I.

[R12366-352] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Verrill versus New Hampshire. DHHS sure.
TEXT> Yeah. This one is very quick. We we got into it at the SA six meeting the other day, but the long and short of this is, it's a,  a letter from the attorneys we work with. And this is Jerry Zealand, who I work with regularly, is a special ed attorney. And he is asking districts in the state to signed on to a, a letter to the a letter to the courts or to letter to the state,  that describes what what what he believes and what we believe or what I believe is an unfair situation brewing at the state level. And basically it's the the state, in my opinion, making efforts to downshift costs to the local taxpayer again, which we've seen time and time again. And in this case, it is specific to adult disabled individuals that are, you know, 18 or older. Right. And the we're still obligated to serve them until 21. And what what Jerry has seen and I've seen a few cases of two is the parents, once they reach that age of 18, say, I'm not going to care for my disabled child anymore.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And then logically, and by law, Department of Health and Human Services has to step in and support that situation. But what we've seen time and time again is that

[R12366-354] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: think Mike is supportive of of signing on. The suggested donation is 500 to $1000 to help draft the brief. And I think the bottom line is it's just there's a benefit to having more districts sign on to this letter so long or short.
TEXT> So I have a couple of questions. So this is this is this doesn't affect students under the age of 18.
NEXT> Ben Nester: No, I do not think it does.

[R12366-357] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: couple of times and I was having trouble. Yeah. Making that distinction. So how much of a placement does DHS make? If it could say they go to formerly known as Crotchet Mountain, for example, what do they how much of it do they pay.
TEXT> If they step in and place the child? Well, it's I mean, in court and court ordered placements, which is a little different than this.  The HHS, which is in sort of as directed by the court, will step in and they may place a child residentially across it. Now, for whatever reason, at that point, the district is obligated to pay up to $60,000 as a as cap.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So this is cat.

[R12366-361] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Or whatever.
TEXT> It is. This is a little different than Court Place, though. And let me let me just I had a little hard time wrapping my mind around this too, Frank. But let me give you an a real example. So several years back we had a 19 year old or a 19 year old man, nonverbal, you know, quite severely disabled. And,  the bus went to pick him up one morning and  or went to drop him off one afternoon, rather from, you know, from his other district placement. And the the parent was no longer there. They, they left and they were gone. And so  my first call was to Pathways and Department of Health and Human Services to say we have a disabled adult that needs some sort of support. And their party line was, this is your responsibility. We're not going to touch this. So I worked directly with Jerry Zelena on this case, and we we had a bit of a legal battle back and forth with Department of Health and Human Services in our attorney, and we ended up winning in Department of Health and Human Services, you know, took this kid and and funded the residential placement, which is their obligation. But it was a bit of a legal fight to make that happen.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's what I was wondering, because you've heard me say this before that, and I've been saying this ever since I was in education that, it might be beneficial

[R12366-383] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Up next. Mr. Herzog. Doctor Herzog.
TEXT> Interesting data presented today. So I'll give you a little bit more. I'm not as specific, so,  maybe don't be too harsh on me, but the,  we do have some interesting surveys that we went through.  So I was asked to talk about the 2019 needs assessment status, which was a  study they had done. We did some surveys about what was needed and what we looked at data from the state regards to it. I'm going to give you some summary  ideas on it, but I want to do that. There's an updated report due by the end of the month, and I'd love to be able to come back in June and kind of give you the layout of what that looks like compared to what it was before. We're comparing some data between when we took the data in 20 1920. I think it was just before Covid really hit in that January, February and March is where we got most of this information. And then, of course, as you know, surveys, we use the Likert study or Likert scale. And so  we talked to students and did surveys with the students. So how accurate is the data. We got to assume that it's it's as valuable as we can get at this point.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So one of the things that for prospective CTE students, which are students not in the program yet mostly middle school, when we did this survey with them, they felt

[R12366-384] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: you know, surveys, we use the Likert study or Likert scale. And so we talked to students and did surveys with the students. So how accurate is the data. We got to assume that it's it's as valuable as we can get at this point.
TEXT> So one of the things that for prospective CTE students, which are students not in the program yet mostly middle school, when we did this survey with them,  they felt like students knew what they were good at. Students had a good idea where they wanted to go  from those students, but they generally did not know what it takes to get where they want to go. So that was a real good indicator of something that we need to work on  from a career counselor standpoint, getting in there to work with students to kind of help them figure out how do they get to where they want to go. I don't know about you all, but I didn't know what I wanted to do. So I was almost in college. I mean, it was a it was always that challenge. And I think that asking our middle school students, what do you want to be kind of plants a seed a little bit, but there's so many variables. I mean, the average,  major change in college is 3 to 4, right? Something. So somebody heads down a field and then they take a class and they're like, wow, this is really great.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Of the CTE students, the survey, the highlights were that students are not sure what they're good at. And so we're not sure what that really means. Right. Is that

[R12366-386] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: tech center, working with our students, either resume preparation, talking about careers. You know, when I go to her and I said, tell me what you know, based on the students that you work with, what is the number one thing they want to do?
TEXT> She said police and military, those are the two that she saw the most. Kids say they had an interest in going into  reasons to speculate why. Who knows at this point. But she's getting that data from what the students are writing about in those career classes. The next thing, we had a  region ten meeting and that community survey, and then we did a community survey out to the folks in the community. I don't know if you recall that survey. We used  email,  Facebook to get the word out,  just a whole bunch of avenues.  Things for improvements for us. I think we had 78 responses. We had some interesting you know, they want to address the travel time challenges. That's an ongoing thing between here and Newport.  Brought in our program offering. That's a great idea. That's something we're looking at. We've talked about possibilities for health sciences. We still have the region ten agreement. We've got to work through  on those issues, and maybe those things we can change. So what other health science kind of programs can we think of here? And I've been working with Mr. Tempesta to see what what we can do in regards to those areas.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: One of the recommendations to deepen the core academic integration. One of the things we created was a tech English class. We used some Perkins funds to hire a teacher

[R12366-392] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: technology program, which I know River Valley has. And that's something we can work with, health Sciences, which is pretty much managed by Newport right now. They're they're doing the health science classes. Welding came up and that is at Newport. Cosmetology is at Newport.
TEXT> The electrical neither one of us have they do have an automotive technology. And the final one was vet tech.  But we're talking about out of those 78 responses. I'm just looking at the math here. But that was about 60 responses on those. So take it with a grain of salt as what we're looking at.  One of the things I did learn is the ones that we would like to implement would be the teacher Ed, or the criminal justice. Those two were looked at by the state is very positive.  I think there's some good opportunity for a partnership with River Valley on a respiratory therapy. I think there's something we could look into that they do have a really new, cool one year certificate program that  can students can graduate with a 33 credit hours if they they could really take their senior year there. And according to  Paula, one of our school counselors, she's like, they wouldn't even have to take a class with us. The problem is finding the money to pay for the some of those courses would be,  what is it called, bridge to college, where they'd have to pay $300 for that for that class? Do we have the funds where we can support that through scholarship?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I mean, we don't I don't have that here. And that's something Mr. Tempesta and I were talking about. Where do we where can we grab that? Wouldn't it be

[R12366-402] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So with the Visioning Committee is how are we connecting with the state for that labor market analysis. So just because we want it doesn't necessarily mean that there's a market for it.
TEXT> So I understand. So they have  the state produces two report I think. It's employment EQ or something. And they shared those with us. And I have one for Sullivan County and I have one for Claremont, and that I'll be passing out at the Vision Committee so they can see that  I've looked at those both those reports. And it's interesting because I've talked to the state about it. For instance, they look at more general growth, but this past year we've seen a great growth in Claremont in the region. We've seen,  you know, with real estate prices and people moving in. So there's this thing is kind of flexible and fluid. And we may be changing and take a look. So originally I didn't think police would be a great one or criminal justice or they call it protective services. But when you talk to the chief here, he's like, oh no, no, no, we need cops. And we got to start letting kids know now that it's a possible career choice. And and a lot of it, it's about planting the seed.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So for, for the police.

[R12366-405] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Career, criminal justice career. How do you need a lot of money and equipment to get that? So you just need more of the room and the books.
TEXT> Essentially, there may be some equipment that we probably and working with, what I would do is look at what police departments are willing to donate so that the students can get those experiences. These could be one year programs or two year. Springfield has a very successful one that has a waiting list. They keep a  waiting list. And they they said to me right off the bat,  I'd love to share the curriculum with you. What we do. And he's a retired police officer over there. So but the investment would be to hire someone to do it. I don't think we can get a part time person  that was that is also willing to go through the certification to get the poor to get their license and all that may happen, but in my experience, it's not likely.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I got a question. A lot of the programs we see currently or the programs we've talked about funding, you know, they get someone on the track to that

[R12366-434] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: tried to do them on our display boards, but they don't always work on it and they freeze everything up. But we showed each of the videos. And really the big response by students is that culinary program, people are really digging that our students.
TEXT> So when we asked, okay, so what's your favorite program? The students were going around. It was culinary, culinary, culinary. I want to cook. So what's great is that we do have some great intro classes. So if they don't get in the culinary, they can learn some other skills. And then.
NEXT> Unidentified: I would say here, is that it? Oh.

[R12366-561] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 general | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: that if it's been given to other state, local and federal agencies, yes, but the matter has been officially closed. If that one item can lead to a prohibition of this policy, I want to know what it means to have an item officially closed.
TEXT> I can I can tell you how I would interpret it, which is it's gone to court, it's gone to somewhere, and it's considered a closed. And therefore we have a concern we were going to report it. That's already gone through a court. It's gone through something that Ben has been involved in on child or whatever. It's been closed. It's not it's no longer a what's considered.
NEXT> Unidentified: An issue. Right.

[R12399-16] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID at the mic, ASR 'Candy Crawford for  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Go for it anyway.
TEXT> Candy Crawford for two.  I was just wondering if  there's an update on the visioning committee. Is that on the agenda for the  tech center? And  related to that, just a comment.  I've. I've talked to different people around town, and I've heard that,  the the tech center's the programs right now are fully,  enrolled, which is terrific news. However, there are only four programs, and I hope the visioning Committee will look at the use of this building.  It was originally set up for eight plus programs. And so while the current  programs might be fully enrolled, the building isn't fully utilized. And I hope that the visioning Committee will address that. The second comment is,  and I don't know whether this is part of your upcoming agenda. I was wondering, I think people would be interested to have a report of the senior class and what percentage of students are graduating. What percentage of students are going on to  further education either? And I would really appreciate a four year or two year or,  continuing ed community college.  Information that would be very helpful to hear. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R12399-30] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [48-63] an | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a Google folder with some documents that we have to take a look at and make sure everyone can have those documents. And we also talked about coming together with a visioning statement of what the goals and objectives would be for the next meeting.
TEXT> But we did a we did a brush of all of the things  and of of what we have to navigate. Looking forward to the next meeting.  And, and I think we're off to a good start. So some of the things,  just to get the brass tacks that we still have to flesh out our the timetable. Visiting other tech centers, looking at  what and how we would select which courses might run  what and how we would have to  cost those out. Bring those two, of course, to the school board who makes all the budgetary and,  decisions on things. But,   it was just a well represented for perspectives. I think  if board members want to talk about it. I thought our representative merchant, I thought there were just great perspectives of how  and how integrated and how, What a reflection of the community expectation for graduates. In, in also the, the local workforce, what they're looking for in graduates. And it was it was borne out in the next slides that I'll show you with the career day, which to me was one of the most spectacular single days that I've seen. There were students from  elementary school, from block, from unity,  from the middle school, from the high school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Very well. And those are the next slides that I have. And it was a it was a beautiful day. It was very these I have are going to go

[R12399-31] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [48-63] an | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: out in the next slides that I'll show you with the career day, which to me was one of the most spectacular single days that I've seen. There were students from elementary school, from block, from unity, from the middle school, from the high school.
TEXT> Very well. And those are the next slides that I have.  And it was a it was a beautiful day.  It was very these I have are going to go through my I had basic slides from around because I haven't been in a  breeze through the elementary because they're going to it's a preview of what they have installed. So  a lot of things have been going on. This is one of my favorite things at bluff, which I was amazed at. These are stills from a video. You had to be there. And they do this often, greeting students coming in to rock and roll music. And it's really it's spectacular.  And the fall cleanup at Maple was I mean, excuse me. Strangely enough, at Maple and a lot of a lot of things going on.  Oh. I'm sorry, I'm not not coordinated here. So  this is the  the math,  fair that went on a Disney,  which was I just  unbelievable. The stations. It was a carnival.  Music, popcorn, drinks and families going around. Kids play. It was. It was absolutely wonderful.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I have the tech day that we we had on the 12th. This was the the career and schedule day. A lot went into this. I happened to be

[R12399-32] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [48-63] an | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I'm sorry, I'm not not coordinated here. So this is the the math, fair that went on a Disney, which was I just unbelievable. The stations. It was a carnival. Music, popcorn, drinks and families going around. Kids play. It was. It was absolutely wonderful.
TEXT> And I have the tech day  that we we had on the 12th. This was the the career and schedule day. A lot went into this. I happened to be at the faculty meeting when they were putting the finishing touches on this  and really dedicating the day to get as many people up there as they could,  corralling the students,  as it were, up the street, back to the street, and very, very well attended. And organized  the this is the representative from hypothermia was these young men I think some of the I think they're middle school. I think a couple of them are unity, a couple,  cms  that what they were this was my favorite inter  exchange that I  saw.  I saw a lot of them. But these they were just talking about what that machine could cut and what happens at hypothermia right from. That's one of the lead  people I think he is the chief operations.  But they were just getting right into the science of things. It was it was wonderful conversation. Those are. I think that's a yeah that's Jen those are unity kids who made it up. You can see it in the background. I believe there are about 15 or 20  different vendors a list of it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'll get the the the flier. And I think it's already up on the tech site. It was it was absolutely one of the, the, the best events that I've

[R12399-33] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [48-63] an | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: things. It was it was wonderful conversation. Those are. I think that's a yeah that's Jen those are unity kids who made it up. You can see it in the background. I believe there are about 15 or 20 different vendors a list of it.
TEXT> I'll get the the  the flier. And I think it's already up on the tech site.  It was it was absolutely one of the, the, the best events that I've been to.  How to get hired kids showed up with five resumes.  Exactly what, what and how in even the, the the elementary schools they had, there's a lot of prep that went into  the students and getting used to the careers of  canon representatives. The CTE truck was there talking about all the careers.  And it was wonderful. There's  instructor doing CPR with the with the students. So  it was it was very impressive.  We definitely going to have it again that I'm looking to expand it, maybe having some of our events. But it was it was fabulous. Everyone was  in the weather really worked out. It was actually very, very warm. The if you were there, the first thing you saw was the 75ft crane from the fire department who were there.  It was just a great community event. So, that's what I have in my report, for I know that elementary folks are going to do an in-depth presentation, so I won't steal that, that thunder. But that's that's what I have on.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Any questions.

[R12399-42] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [48-63] an | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Anything else? All right. You're on a discussion. Action items. Item number one. Bullying parent group updates. All right.
TEXT> So we we had a meeting.  Seemed like it was last night. Okay. Just so.  And this is a group of  concerned  citizens in Claremont who actually have been reaching out to us talking about the issues of bullying that that,  around the school, as they hear it and they observe it and  they hear from their students.  In  the Sons and Daughters and also, they had a few meetings outside of the school, and then we, we  told them that we would host them in their forums. We went to one vote before vacation, Mary Ellen, Richard and myself to hear where they're coming from. We talked about their goals and we heard their stories. Had some of the folks back in  the next day.  To to follow up on individual details.  The goal of the group was to try to work together collectively,  to, to just make a better Claremont. But they they also in both of those meetings, they talked about incidences of, of  of bullying, what our what our policies are, how we  just asking questions.  And  last night we focused on communication.  Principal Romeo  and  middle school and principal incoming Principal Pratt spoke specifically about their programs. Principal in Pratt will  talk about  you know, what they are going to do with  from a restorative practices approach.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Principal Romeo went into detail about how in the vision of of tactical approaches to having staff using some of the funds and other positions to help with the management

[R12399-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [48-63] an | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But I thought it was a very successful meeting. We I think we outnumbered this one. I think we had more administrators there than parents there. In the first one, I believe, I if I remember there were at least a dozen or so folks.
TEXT> So we're going to get and we looked at dates of which we can have another meeting. Also before the end of the school year. And we're also open to doing some forums, as we did last summer,  in  with folks to to get off to a good start. So, that's, that's what we had. But I'd like to ask Mr. Pratt,  to come up and,  and kind of talk about this exciting, vision that he's at. I know he's already started having student meetings.  And  they're they're excited about some of the programs they hope to roll out that will absolutely take some time to get off the ground, but they're going to start training staff and students  this summer. But I hand it off to  Chris Pratt.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Our evening everybody.

[R12399-47] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Good evening. Good evening.
TEXT> This is just an overview of the. Presentation I put together.  Restorative practices is something I've been doing probably over 20 years now. I think it many high schools, Massachusetts and Mont. So I just wanted to share with you tonight what it could look like at Stevens High School, what it is and how could it be in the future for students, staff and everyone alike? As before, you can really establish now we can really establish that consistency in regards to how you're responding to current discipline issues. And once you've established that, then you can start incorporating the restorative approach. So what you're looking at here is is very simple. It's something that's going to be shared with everyone in the handbook and the parents. Anyone who wants it very transparent approach. So people know these are all the different incidences we have across what happens at each term of the violation, and our restorative justice options that will eventually have. By doing this, it levels the playing field. Students, parents, the community know exactly how administration is going to respond when something goes wrong. That way you have consistency, transparency, and there's no surprises of what we're going on. So it makes it very easy to to understand the process. This is something that,  this is the current version.  Meeting with the student council next week.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I want to get their opinion on it. And so this is the new piece, but we're hoping I will be having it in the student handbook and online for

[R12399-48] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: something goes wrong. That way you have consistency, transparency, and there's no surprises of what we're going on. So it makes it very easy to to understand the process. This is something that, this is the current version. Meeting with the student council next week.
TEXT> I want to get their opinion on it. And so this is the new  piece, but we're hoping I will be having it in the student handbook and online for everyone to see as we move forward. So once you have a a consistent approach to behavior and how we're going to respond to it, you talk a little bit about what reporting practice is and isn't. Over the years, I've noticed that a lot of people, schools try to do restorative practices and they're well intended, but sometimes it goes about it wrong. So it kind of gives it a bad name. So this is just and this is in your packet really traditional discipline, which is very punitive compared to the restorative approach. And you can see some of the bigger differences here for instance focuses on the harmony offended and traditional. And this one here is focused on the person harmed in the victim. The word changes. You go down here. Primary importance is the most is the amount of the type of punishment over here is a primary. It's important is the harmony except responsibility for what they have. And the most biggest thing is if we're given the opportunity for them to come together and talk about what happens, just like adults do in the real world, how to resolve conflict without using,  harassing and bullying words and without restoring to violence.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So this is pretty much what Restorative practices provides a meaningful and responsible practice. It's a proactive approach. I think that's the biggest thing. People so often with the traditional

[R12399-49] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: have. And the most biggest thing is if we're given the opportunity for them to come together and talk about what happens, just like adults do in the real world, how to resolve conflict without using, harassing and bullying words and without restoring to violence.
TEXT> So this is pretty much what Restorative practices provides a meaningful and responsible practice. It's a proactive approach. I think that's the biggest thing. People  so often with the traditional discipline that we currently have. We're always waiting for it to happen. It's reactive. This here, what can happen is if a student or a teacher or anyone feels that you can see it coming. What they can do is we can have a restorative meeting right off the bat to talk about what's happening before it even comes to head. And that and that's something that will we're going to  have teachers trained in and students. We're looking at having a student panel, which is really a student restorative circle. They'll be trained so low level incidences that you see in the matrix classroom disruptions, leaving class, not coming back. Little things like that. The students who get the disciplinary referrals for that, they'll go in front of the restorative panel of students and talk about what happened, why they happened, and how it impacted them as students. Too often we're talking about as adults, this is what you did. This is what you shouldn't have done. It's more of a lecture.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: This makes it more of a learning experience. And so we're hoping that over time that we establish consistency and equity. Among how we're approaching things is the typical discipline

[R12399-50] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: of the restorative panel of students and talk about what happened, why they happened, and how it impacted them as students. Too often we're talking about as adults, this is what you did. This is what you shouldn't have done. It's more of a lecture.
TEXT> This makes it more of a learning experience. And so we're hoping that over time that we establish consistency and equity. Among how we're approaching things is the typical discipline and punitive piece have to be in place? It does. But how we use it right now, I think we overuse the  school suspensions. I strongly believe that only time we should use school suspensions, if a lot has been broken outside of the school, and the parties need to be separated for the safety of themselves in time for healing to begin. It does strengthen the overall community and the school community. The biggest thing, it restores relationship and repairs harm and mitigates the destructive aspect of shame. A lot of times we suspend the student. They come back. Is that awkwardness of coming back in the school and facing the person that whether you're the victim or the offender, this gives the opportunity that they've already come face to face. They already talked about it. There's no more of that awkwardness. For instance, two weeks ago I had  some students that,  best friends all through elementary and middle school. Something happened the freshman year. It got to the point where almost every single day I had to deal with these two students. So myself and the council had a restorative meeting lasted about an hour.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: At the end of the meeting, they asked us if we could step out. I looked in, they were hugging. So it's there is that piece that we don't want

[R12399-52] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: kind of pyramid approach. We have the the red, the the green, the yellow and the red, the response to interventions. This is kind of the same thing, only it's the restorative approach in what it looks like because they all kind of fit together.
TEXT> And these are the five we call them magic questions that we ask at every time we're trying to restore what happened, whether we're trying to restore relationships, we're trying to restore their education. What happened? What were you thinking? How are you feeling and what do you need and what is needed to happen now so that the arm can be repaired and that's asked of both sides. There's always a follow up. There's always check ins, follow ups with the students. We just don't say have the meeting and we cut them loose sometimes.  The student panel, for instance, might assign them a project, say two students.  Has been bullying, harassment going on. They might have a they might have be given an assignment by the student panel. And this has happened before saying, we want you to work on a project and present to the freshman  sophomore class a presentation on bullying and the effects that has on people's,  on people, emotional and long term effects. They do something together, they learn to work together. And so that so right now what we have is students are suspended.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: They brought back they have one reentry meeting, not with each other, just separate with the parent. And then we cut them loose and we're back to reactive, hoping nothing

[R12399-54] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: do justice system. So we're trying to separate the two, but use some of the stuff we learned from them. And this is, you know, just a lot of things about the proactive this that we can put into place once we have restorative practices.
TEXT> I put this in here and it's up to you whether you want to watch it. Now, it's just a two minute clip, but it gives you an idea of how a restorative approach will work. And this is with  some middle school students. So that's up to you if you want to watch this.  What I can tell you is that we're kind of working from a backwards design in the district, saying that once we have in place from the high school, we're hoping to roll it down to the middle school, because what what I have done in the past is I use the high school students who have trained and restorative practices and panels to train the middle school students coming in, or the middle school students, they can have it there. So it's kind of a peer teaching. It's kind of backwards by design. So once we work out all the bugs, because every school is a little different in regards to how we go about this, once we work that out, then we go backwards and work with the middle school, because so many times it's the middle school first and the high school second.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So this time we're trying just to back it up and go high school, middle school. And I've even done it incorporated at elementary schools, which is, you know, but

[R12399-56] Unidentified | Unidentified - mixed cluster: roll-call reading, seconds, thank-yous,  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: those relationships. So when they get to those different grade levels, they're already familiar with some of the students because they work with them in their own school. So I'll leave it up to the board of the night. You want to to watch this?
TEXT> Yeah, sure. What's happening? For you? I want to catch up to Jack and have a bit of a chat to remember what was happening out there. And  what do I want to get here and see if we can't come up with a solution that doesn't sound to you. I mean, what do you want to happen? What do you want to see happen for this? What did you just say? I have said don't. Fair enough. All right, well, you go get yourself a drink of water. Calm yourself down. Whatever you need to do to make yourself feel better. I'll catch up with Jack and I'll come and talk to you soon. All right. Thank you. All right. So here you go, Jack. All right. Wondering if you could let me know what was happening out on the oval today. I know nothing. Wasn't any problems. No. Okay. Amy's coming. Had a bit of a chat to me, and she was saying that there was a problem out there and mentioned that you were telling people she had nits. Do you want to tell me about what was going on there? Well, she does have nits. Okay. So what were you hoping might happen by telling people? I know few kids won't catch my first. Is there anything else you were hoping might happen? Kids were laughing. Guess it was a bit funny.
NEXT> Unidentified: Jack, I want you to have a listen to the sound of my voice. Do I do I sound angry to you? No. Not really. Good. Because I'm not. What

[R12399-58] Unidentified | Unidentified - adult voice in the restorative practices demonstration  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: that you both agreed to sit down with me and see if we can't come up with a way of solving this. But the first thing I want to do is make sure that you're both okay. Amy, how are you feeling? You're right. Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. What about you? Jack, are you feeling okay? Yes. Okay, good. Right. So  I want to recap on what my understanding is of what happened, based on what you both told me. And that is, is that you're out on the oval playing. And, Jack, you started to  tell people that Amy had nets, which people started laughing. And it's that basically what happened out there. Yes. Yeah. Okay. So, Jack, the first question I want to do was ask you and I'm going to ask you a couple of questions I asked you. I want to ask you is what you were thinking at a time when you were saying it? What were you hoping might happen? I know it was a bit funny. Kids were laughing. Okay, so you were enjoying making kids laugh? Is it? Yes. Okay. All right. I mean, how are you feeling out there? What were you. How are you feeling at the time? Well. I was really embarrassed, and I just wanted to start. I'm sorry. For your loss. So, Jack, what have you thought about since? I know, guess I shouldn't have done it. I wasn't that for you. Okay. I'm glad you feel that way. So how are we going to fix this? I mean, what would you like to see happen? I'd like Jack to stop saying that I haven't. It's. And for him to know, I don't know.
NEXT> Unidentified: So you like him to stop saying those things? And the one that's that you don't have nets. Does that sound fair enough to you? Yes. Is that something you'd

[R12399-59] Unidentified | Unidentified - adult voice in the restorative practices demonstration  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: that for you. Okay. I'm glad you feel that way. So how are we going to fix this? I mean, what would you like to see happen? I'd like Jack to stop saying that I haven't. It's. And for him to know, I don't know.
TEXT> So you like him to stop saying those things? And the one that's that you don't have nets. Does that sound fair enough to you? Yes. Is that something you'd be willing to do? Which is not so these things in the future? Yeah. Okay, great. Is there anything that you can think of that you could do to make things right? Yes. I better say sorry. Do you want to do that now? Sorry, Amy. What are you sorry for? Sorry for making fun of you. That's okay. Do you accept his apology? Yes. Excellent. That's good news, isn't it? Is there anything else that you guys think we need to do? No. Do you think we could move forward? Yes, yes. Fantastic. Are you guys feeling alright with what we've talked about and what we've resolved? Yes. So we've agreed that you're not going to say those things. You've apologized and you've accepted his apology. Is that all? Feel okay to you? Yeah. Wonderful. Okay. So the last thing, and this is something that some kids like to do, and they shake hands as a way of being able to move forward together. That's something that you guys want to do. Yeah. Come on. Shake hands. All right. Fantastic. Good job guys.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: To war. And we actually did it one way at one time in Brattleboro. We had over 200 people in the school. Because there was something that happens in school

[R12399-61] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: model of obedience, meaning? Look, you don't have to do it. We'd like you to do it, however, and the kids do sometimes, like, I don't want to do it, but once you throw this out to the parents, like, oh no, you're doing it.
TEXT> It's like, for instance, a kid, you know, you still have the typical discipline. You know, you got in a fight. It's 5 to 10 days. You get suspended. However you do restorative practices. We'll put a certain amount of those days in abeyance. For instance, if they got five days, we'll put three new bands. You do this in the new successfully completed. You have three days that you'll never have to serve. However, if you don't successfully complete the practices or there's a repeat offense, you're going to have to serve those three days and whatever else goes on to it. So there you need to give them a character, and it also brings the parents into the picture too, and say, no, you're going, you're going to do this because you need to be back in school. But it's different at each school. But it's been very successful. I've been doing over for 20 years. And,  it really does change the school climate. You start focusing on the positive rather than a negative. We ruled out  during the the tech day that I'm looking to, use  stop the restorative piece by stop and acknowledge kids with what they're doing positive because so many times as students, the only time to being approached by adults sometimes is if they're doing something wrong.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So we put in this thing, we have these tickets that we're going to start giving kids. If a teacher sees the student is doing something good, they're going to

[R12399-62] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: during the the tech day that I'm looking to, use stop the restorative piece by stop and acknowledge kids with what they're doing positive because so many times as students, the only time to being approached by adults sometimes is if they're doing something wrong.
TEXT> So we put in this thing, we have these tickets that we're going to start giving kids. If a teacher sees the student is doing something good, they're going to fill it out, give it to them, they'll bring it to the office, they'll tell one half off, they'll put it in the ninth grade bucket once and then the other half. They can bring home their positive ignorance once a month, and it will have our meetings with grade level or by house. We'll draw our name. There'll be a there'll be a prize. Who filled it out? And the student's name who's drawn will  get a prize, but also will not will acknowledge those names at the end of each day. And those students will also be recognized during their house meetings. Grade level means to stand up because they did something good, but the other side is they also have to support each other because you're going to get merits for doing something good because we're keeping track of those. But the the discipline aspect to get detentions, they equally weighed. You can have 50, you know, tickets of positive recognition, but if you have 60 discipline issues you're going to be in a negative. And it's a healthy competition. It helps them to support each other. And plus they're always they they like the idea of getting prizes too. And at the end of the year, the house that has the who is kind of, excelled.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Decreased discipline, increased the positive. They have their own celebration at the end of the year, and we have, raffles for bigger ticketed items which are going to meet with

[R12399-63] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: in a negative. And it's a healthy competition. It helps them to support each other. And plus they're always they they like the idea of getting prizes too. And at the end of the year, the house that has the who is kind of, excelled.
TEXT> Decreased discipline, increased the positive. They have their own celebration at the end of the year, and we have,  raffles for bigger ticketed items which are going to meet with the student council to find out to them what big ticket item to do that. And that usually gets them pretty excited and they stop supporting each other, and we got us to that stuff. So that's the restorative overview.  If you have any questions,  feel free to email me or ask them tonight.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And how. Is the restorative approach implemented when a victim doesn't want to participate, or when the victim feels by being in this kind of a setting? Because I think

[R12399-65] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: feels by being in this kind of a setting? Because I think there might be some circumstances where the burden of healing would be placed on victim to accept an apology that they don't want to accept and they don't want to engage. And so.
TEXT> It's been done wrong so many times, unintentionally, that there is a victim. The victim never has to participate. Okay. But we usually when it happens in a school, you have enough witnesses. And that's why the student panel comes in very handy, because you can still have the person who did the victimizing be part of the process, because it's always about who in one of the questions you have, who do you think was hung. And so  the  victim's.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Not required to participate? That's what I want to okay.

[R12399-67] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Not required to participate? That's what I want to okay.
TEXT> You know, because you can still get the same results without the victim being there. And so you can have an say. The important question is who do you think was high? Okay. They usually mentioned one maybe two people, but when they're in front of a student panel or a restorative circle with even doubts and stuff, so it says, okay, it was you. Yes, it was the victim. It was your principal, but it your counselor. It's your parents. It's the six friends who had the witness date. That's your parents goes on and on, and that starts it. So we can still do the same thing about who is. Who is armed. Being there. The victim of the armed is never made it to do it. No one's mandated to do it. But we never because we don't want them one to have to live in a situation. And it has to be done where they're both willing participants. One side's not willing. He just doesn't work out. But usually the person who did the hiring is usually we can still work with that person to make that a decisions based on just the questions we ask and putting in further supports for them.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R12399-70] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Stephen.' [442] and ' | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: And and then Frank.
TEXT> So the one question I have. I'm trying to figure out how the student panel would work given the number of where you're talking more my new,  infractions. Just because if based off the emails or what I hear from from my students, it sounds like that could become a full time job pretty quick. Not not trying to. You. Know, illegitimate  what you're trying to do, because I respect it fully. But how do we how do we one make sure it's an even playing field, not just top performers in the school? How do we make it? Because I can't see where you could put a kid who's struggling in school into the panel. And I'm just thinking several different aspects of the whole thing, because you're going to lose common learning if they're participating in this.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. Usually this is something that's done. We can do it during flex time. In some of those cases, sometimes we can do it after school. But I've used it

[R12399-72] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: it's not as many students as you think in regards we have. Plus we we try to train enough students where it's not the same panel that we're over again. We were evolving the panels and so it doesn't it's not a constant revolving thing.
TEXT> When I was doing it with in Boston with about 5000 students, I think we average maybe three a week. But it wasn't the same panel we had. It's a panel that was made up of maybe 6 or 7 kids, and we had three different panels. So it revolves. So then offering now.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Thank you for answering my question quite clearly and easy for me to to us.

[R12399-75] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: in in the case of self-defense, for example. So I'm wondering how you sort that out with this, with the nuance of, of premeditation as opposed to reaction, really doing the same thing, but two really different root causes. And how do you how do.
TEXT> You know? I found it's a, it's a very fine line because,  anytime does this all with something like that, this you, you have, you know, we have to report it to law enforcement. So all we can do is from the school and hopefully, you know, a lot of times from, the statements that we take, you're going to get enough of the truth in each statement to figure out what exactly happened. Sometimes are you always he said she said, yeah, but in those cases, you're teaching them life lessons in general terms, not necessarily tied to that incident, but saying if a situation like this happens again, what could you have done? What are you going to do differently? What are your options? What can you do because you're at we're always going to have those, he said. She said, and I'm not in a position to believe I can believe this student of this if I don't have the facts, if I don't have the evidence saying that this student regressor, then we just got to pick it up and look at it as there's a larger lesson to be learned.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Because I would piggyback on what Heather was talking about. Where? I've been suspended. I've got to jump through all these hoops now because somebody jumped me in the hall.

[R12399-79] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Don't get me wrong, I, I really.
TEXT> Grapple with, you know, over the years. And that's why I said it's different from to every school. And there have been many times where the kid is willing that the parent is not. And I'm saying, okay, then, you know, initially the kid wanted to say it was five. Then. That's why we still have to keep the punitive piece in the back burner. We're just trying to explore. We're just trying to give options we never want to force. We never want to force through slaughter practices. And that's where it's gone wrong over the years because. Oh, no, it's it's in the circle. We're making people to participate. It's because people who are well intended were not trained to have the experience and thought that, well, I did it in with adults. I'm just going to do it the same way with kids. It's it's not the same. I mean, it's a it's a very intimidating process. But you but part of that is you have to have a school environment where kids feel that they can trust the the adults around them. And that's a, that's another huge piece. They can't trust the adults around. It doesn't matter what you have a program. It's always going to be that out there in the soccer work.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So you promised to bring us some data on how it's going. Well, yeah.

[R12399-88] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (medium - chair: 'I've got Whitney and t | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: I've got Whitney and then Steven.
TEXT> Is there a component of this program that, allows for supporting a student who was a victim,  restore a sense of security and safety in the case where the aggressor chooses the  out of school suspension instead of the  student panel or mediation.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, because then we can work with the school counselors, the administration, social workers. We can still process with them how it made them feel and still ask a lot

[R12399-100] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: to take home that was donated by a local farm. So you can see our bluff pumpkin patch students and costumes and one of our math, examples. We didn't break it down by students, but at count we had 180 people attend this event. Wow.
TEXT> Moving on to November. We got families involved through their donations. We had a school on Thanksgiving feast, so each grade level had a an item to donate.  And then we distributed it to the classrooms. Each classroom had a turkey cooking and a cooker, and they had a feast in their classroom. A small, wonderful, and then any leftovers we had, we donated to the soup kitchen as a community service. This was kind of a biggie for students. We had a winter enrichment through  January and February for Fridays in a row, from 1 to 3 dedicated the afternoon.  We opened up various activities for students to choose from so they could choose their top three choices. And we sort of just spread everybody out.  Staff members stepped up and led an activity based on an expert that they had. So we had a snack and paint genius. Our Legoland crocheting, origami games, outdoor snowshoeing,  Stem activities, a music connection, and dancing around the world. And it's really just to provide some enrichment to target not only social emotional, but sort of build up there.  Background. So this is just a few snapshots, snapping paints. They did a guided painting of a polar bear. There was a literature connection,  music connection. Each week they made a different instrument and explored sound.
NEXT> Baker: This is snowshoeing, Genius Hour and steam. So they got outside. They had the snowshoes. On days that they didn't have snow, they did other outdoor activities. I think they

[R12399-101] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: only social emotional, but sort of build up there. Background. So this is just a few snapshots, snapping paints. They did a guided painting of a polar bear. There was a literature connection, music connection. Each week they made a different instrument and explored sound.
TEXT> This is snowshoeing, Genius Hour and steam. So they got outside. They had the snowshoes. On  days that they didn't have snow, they did other outdoor activities. I think they made bird feeders one week. Middle is a genius. Our project. I actually led that one myself. So students did a self-directed project.  I had anywhere from this. This young girl made a sculpture that was sort of in the initial stages, but she paper mache it and had a cake in the whole nine era. It's a  character from her comic book that she she created to a student who was very worried about a feral cat in her neighborhood who learned how to make a cat house. So we had several different projects that I facilitated for that. And then a steam activity was an example. They had to engineer a. Prosthetic fin for the the little,  water water toy, much like it was the dolphin. I came over the name, but the model from the dolphins said it's  thin, so it was modeled  from that. So those are a couple of examples there.  On 2nd February we had a kindness challenge to get  home involved. So students filled out a bingo chart for acts of kindness at home. They were entered into a drawing to win a lunch with me. So here we have myself and a student. And then also students did,  you know why we we loved Bluff in February.
NEXT> Baker: End of February had a book swap. So that was to get families involved. They sent in a book with their child, gently used book, and we spread them out

[R12399-102] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: filled out a bingo chart for acts of kindness at home. They were entered into a drawing to win a lunch with me. So here we have myself and a student. And then also students did, you know why we we loved Bluff in February.
TEXT> End of February had a book swap. So  that was to get families involved. They  sent in a book with their child, gently used book,  and we spread them out in the cafeteria and then supplemented with staff donations. And each child was able to bring a new, new to them book home. Finally, we get to April, and  we opened up a little bit so we could get families. And so we hosted a Walk Your Child to class event  on April 20th. So they could basically just do a walk through, say hello to the teacher, physically see the classroom, and, meet and greet me in the gym. So a good data point for that is that  I had a PTO sign up sheet, our PTO multiplied by six, so we're up to 12 members instead of two. So that was  a nice outcome of that event. Superintendent Vesta already alluded to this, but we have Dance Party Fridays. So as students are driving through with their family, we have the music playing staff are welcoming and greeting all students as they walk in. We have main entrance and the side entrance.  It's just really a great way to set the tone for the end of the week.
NEXT> Baker: You know, some of those kids got some good dance moves and the families are smiling as they walk through. So that's that's our dance party Friday. That's right. A

[R12399-116] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: in several different ways. Academically, you're all aware of the challenge that we face academically with some of our students, given the the upheaval, let's say, of the last couple of years, socially, we're seeing kids face some challenges that they have not faced previously.
TEXT> And so we really needed to increase the amount of social support that we're providing to students.  Goes right along with some of the emotional supports that they need. And when you are  struggling with your social and emotional skills, there tends to be some behavior there, particularly if you're also struggling academically because it's a lot easier to come off as a as a  silly person or a class clown rather than say, this is hard for me. So  we have a variety of teams that support all of these areas.  Mrs. Boynton leads several of them. You saw in Principal Pratt's presentation that pyramid of support. Dessner has a very same similar a similar triangle. We have a universal team. What needs to be in place for all kiddos to address all of these areas? We have a tier two team that's a targeted team. So for kiddos who need a little bit more support in any of those areas, Nicole leads that team as well. And we have a group of, all different perspectives,  different stakeholders in our school that get together and plan those supports for students and then provide that that additional re teaching. For example, if you are  five six, your age really doesn't matter and you have a hard time recognizing people's space.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And so you don't recognize that people have a bubble. We have a really great, program for that that we work with for students that actually came out of our

[R12399-117] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: different perspectives, different stakeholders in our school that get together and plan those supports for students and then provide that that additional re teaching. For example, if you are five six, your age really doesn't matter and you have a hard time recognizing people's space.
TEXT> And so you don't recognize that people have a bubble. We have a really great,  program for that that we work with for students that actually came out of our occupational therapy department. So again, a lot of great cross curricular and cross-departmental support for kids.  Behaviorally, today is Woo-Hoo! Wednesday. So we would we would be remiss if we did not talk about Woohoo Wednesday. So I'll let Nicole talk about that one.
NEXT> Nicole Boynton: So woohoo! Wednesdays are just a way for staff and students or other adults around the school to recognize when kids go a little bit above and beyond. So kiddo

[R12399-118] Nicole Boynton | Student services coordinator, Disnard Elementary School (medium - intr | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: our occupational therapy department. So again, a lot of great cross curricular and cross-departmental support for kids. Behaviorally, today is Woo-Hoo! Wednesday. So we would we would be remiss if we did not talk about Woohoo Wednesday. So I'll let Nicole talk about that one.
TEXT> So woohoo! Wednesdays  are just a way for staff and  students or other adults around the school to recognize when kids go a little bit above and beyond.  So  kiddo drops their tray at lunch and some friends run over and it helps you pick it up. Adults would notice that they get to fill out a little ticket.  The ticket goes in the bucket,  and one of our secretaries is well known for her big, boisterous boos. And so she gets on the announcements and she announces every single student that was in the bucket for the last week.  And if you are  there, you'll get to hear the woo! Who's that echo throughout all of the classrooms. So some classrooms have little noisemakers. They have plastic clappers. It's just a wonderful, wonderful time for us to start our Wednesday morning. So it's one of our favorite days of the week. And you all know Patty to shame. Patty has the best woohoo voice there is.  It's a she loves it. She loves. It's another way again that  she supports our school in so many different ways. Now, Mrs. Duchesne was not able to do the moves today, so we had a guest.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Woohoo! And we don't reveal who that is. And we have the kids have to figure it out. It is a phenomenal way to start your day. On the academic

[R12399-120] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: important part for our families. We wanted to make sure that we gave them every opportunity we could to meet their child's teacher and learn as much as they could. So we held an outdoor open house for our first go round Veterans Day gathering.
TEXT> Again, just trying to rebuild that sense of community while also trying to be Covid sensitive. We tried to do as much outside as possible.  So we're gathered here in the front of Disney.  We had students reading some poems or thoughts that they had.  It was an amazing, amazing event to gather K to five and all staff. Thanks to our third grade team and some great Stem thinking on their part, we also held the Disney, our first annual Thanksgiving Day Parade in honor of the Macy's Day Parade, and our third graders had to develop their balloons. That had some requirements to their design. And then they paraded around the school with all of us standing in the hallways cheering. It was an amazing event. And what it also showed us is that kids had a hard time having the spotlight on them. That was something they weren't used to again, because we hadn't been doing things like that for a little bit. So  you'll see that we created some other ways to continue that thinking. Then we came into fun  and fun had a two week. As you can imagine, things get a little exciting around the holidays in an elementary school, and so rather than try to fight it, we try to embrace it. And so think of like a two week  school spirit, I guess, for lack of a better way to say it.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And every day honored something about a different winter holiday or just winter in general. So we had holiday sock day, holiday headwear day. Oh gosh, what else do we

[R12399-122] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: classroom actually has their own country. It also gave them a nice extension to some social studies work they learned about their country. They talked about different aspects of the environment, just characteristics of the country in general. Now this right here will look odd.
TEXT> That I think is the number one Covid safe community building event that we've had over the last few years. And I'm it they're addicted and it's bingo. And I can't explain it other than if you can picture Mrs. Boynton sitting at a table.  We all log in to a Google meet and kids play right in their classrooms. And it is absolutely mind boggling how excited they are about with this. So we do this. We've done this several times. We used to gather in the gym to do it every once in a while, and now they really prefer this. So they like they like seeing their  on the on the screen in their classroom. They can clearly see the other classrooms. You'll hear kids say, that's my brother. That's my sister. Again, just a really nice way for us to build community. Spirit week is always  they do it every week if we  let them for. So we did a spring Spirit week. We did things like,  your favorite team day. We did beach day, tie dye day. We did  your what was the one with? Well, we did their favorite. I'm saving their favorite for last. And that was their that was this one right here dressed like a staff member dressed like a student day.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And so students could dress like any staff member that they wanted to staff were we were scared. We weren't sure what was going to happen there. And student and

[R12399-123] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: did beach day, tie dye day. We did your what was the one with? Well, we did their favorite. I'm saving their favorite for last. And that was their that was this one right here dressed like a staff member dressed like a student day.
TEXT> And so students could dress like any staff member that they wanted to staff were we were scared. We weren't sure what was going to happen there.  And student and we could dress like students. Many, many staff members dress as other staff members. I will tell you, Mr. Gregory, if you don't know, Editor Gregory is one of the most beloved staff members we have at Disney,  and he has been for at least the last 20 odd years that I've been here. And we had more students dressed like Mr. Gregory that day than you can imagine. And it was it was pretty spectacular.  Again, just another way to build culture and climate.  There was a little competition to this. Believe it or not, we have some staff members who are a wee bit competitive. And then as Superintendent Tempesta mentioned, we had a mass carnival just a few weeks ago. Huge, huge thanks to our title one department for this. This is completely planned by them. Normally we open up our gym. We decorate it like a like the big top.  Again, just trying to recognize that that not everyone is totally comfortable  around Covid yet. We're trying to host as much as we can outdoors. And so there were a series of math events that students and families could go around and participate in.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Popcorn was served, I'm pretty sure for some of them that was the draw. But the smell, in all honesty, really is the draw and the butter and salt, of

[R12399-124] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: top. Again, just trying to recognize that that not everyone is totally comfortable around Covid yet. We're trying to host as much as we can outdoors. And so there were a series of math events that students and families could go around and participate in.
TEXT> Popcorn was served, I'm pretty sure for some of them that was the draw. But the smell, in all honesty, really is the draw and the butter and salt, of course.  So huge thanks to them. As you can see, it was a great turnout and lots of different ways to get kiddos thinking about math, and they have no idea  that they're doing it. So then we needed to get ready for the New Hampshire sass. And so we hold an opening,  assembly to kind of get kids excited in third, fourth and fifth grade. It's really hard to get excited about a test, to be honest, but our staff always finds a way to do that. We have buddy classrooms, so each of our third, fourth and fifth grade classroom has a younger classroom that has adopted them and does different things throughout the week to kind of keep their morale going and motivate them and recognize that, yeah, tests might not be fun. However, this is your chance to show what you know, and that's the slogan we use for New Hampshire. Sass is this is a chance for you to brag about all you've learned since your very first day of preschool or kindergarten, and you get to show it on this assessment. And so then, thanks to Nicole, I'm going to let her explain this.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: The picture on the right is really just a screenshot. It's a video. And if I had access to the rights to the music, I would have played it for

[R12399-132] Unidentified | Unidentified - mixed cluster: roll-call reading, seconds, thank-yous,  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. Three, three. Good evening. Nice to see you. Thank you. For. Having. Me here tonight. When I got the assignment, I took the. Opportunity to get my notes so. That I don't miss. Any of my important things to say. I  wanted to share all the fun and the love and the laughter and the good times that we had  all year. And I want to take this opportunity to put together a package that I can give to the community when I'm done. So I hope that you'll see a lot of happy faces here. Hear a little bit about what we did over the course of the year and,  and, and enjoy. Our theme this year was amazing together. First thing I did on entering is we talked about where we want Maple to be and who we are as a maple team. And so a challenge to staff and the leadership team and the full staff came up with our mission statement at Maple  Avenue Elementary School. We engage, challenge, inspire and empower all students to learn and grow in a safe and respectful environment. And we did a lot of PD in the beginning of the year to truly think about who we are, no matter leadership, no matter teacher turnover. What are the core beliefs of the building? Here's the beginning of our happy faces.
NEXT> Unidentified: Starting with kindergarten. As Principal Lewis just mentioned, we had a focus on play based learning this year and so often play based learning. What is that? Play based learning

[R12399-134] Unidentified | Unidentified - Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (presents Map | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: to be one of the groups that was challenged most by that he Covid learning loss. And one of the things we found is they're missing a lot of persistence and they just give up and they want their adult to do it for them.
TEXT> And so one of the struggles this year really was you can do this. You may not know how to do it yet, but you will be able to. So first graders had a lot of fun with how can you make your brain grow as a muscle using fixed growth mindsets? And then we had some fun days with teacher ties and tiaras for the first 2 to 2 to. And then we had Tuesday which was Tuesday, 2222, two. Not to have them confused. And here was their  pumpkin investigation as well. Second grade  has done some other different things. They have done a phenomenal job working with other reading scores. They're reading scores have improved drastically over the course of the year, and it's so exciting to see these students excited about  their books and the things that they're reading in the chapter books. Just reading socks. One class is making stop motion pictures. We are going to. You can see them. They're working,  with Tammy Morse and their teacher and creating a they're going to have huge movie premiere. Don't tell all of them.  And you're more than welcome to join us. It's on June 2nd at the auditorium is going to be the full red carpet for their stop motion videos. They're having so much fun. And we also did some flat, flat Stanley moving around. Where can Flat Stanley and up.
NEXT> Unidentified: In third grade. We've got some key learning that's going on there. Reading, their writing, their happy faces and lots of science and steam. They've done a lot with mystery

[R12399-137] Unidentified | Unidentified - Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (presents Map | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: and then they had to build it and bring it one step further, and they had to pay for the goods. And then to take it one step further, there was a, a windstorm, and your house had to withstand the windstorm at the end.
TEXT> So it it truly took the engineering, the math, the economics and, and brought it all together in so much fun. And they love it. The same way the  testing weight on a bridge built bridges out of popsicle sticks and they use their shoes. They would hang shoes off to weigh  for for the challenges. Our visions program  has a wonderful scrapbook. If you ever stop by our office, it's in our front lobby. They have done a wonderful job this year. They're modeling much of their learning through the 50 states. Our vision program is a self-contained learning program. And through each of the states, they learn about different habitats and professions and arts and culture and social skills and applications for all of these things. See, they learned about exploding pumpkins and they all dressed up as Nurse Ronnie to celebrate Nurse Ronnie one day, studying beaver dams and astronauts. And they are so fun. And it's so creative. The way they approach learning our title one rock star, Mrs. Herzog,  brings to us a wealth of information on the science of reading, works with kids all day long, and presents learning in many different multi-sensory ways.
NEXT> Unidentified: Moving into PE is in a snap. Continuing in the snapshot of our school, we've got students learning gross motor skills, the ready physician and stepping off at the foot

[R12399-139] Unidentified | Unidentified - Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (presents Map | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: lot. It was so great to see happy faces. It was the first time people had gotten together and smiled at each other and actually had conversations in years. And everyone was able to breathe a little bit and it was so nice to see.
TEXT> We then had our Halloween parade.  We were visited by Juke and Sam over there.  Who made his rounds with the red to the kindergartners? And took a parade all the way down. May believe all sorts of parents came out. It was a lot of fun in the holidays. We finally got live music. We were able to go to Stevens High School and socially distanced, but we saw the concert and it was wonderful. And we too had  12 days of Christmas, where every day was a different activity, a different,  wearing your socks or your sweaters or, and we finished it up with a virtual school wide movie celebration of Polar Express, and we all wore pajamas, had popcorn, and watched it over Google Meet together separately. Or eight couple weeks ago,  cleaned up our neighborhood.  And there's smiling faces doing yard work. Who knew?  I need to do that with my children. And this was from our. Our maple has smarts night.  Where we had hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people come walk through our halls.  Our RSVP list was pushing for hundred  at one point, and they had stations set up throughout the school where you could look at the artwork on the walls and then have all sorts of different literacy activities.
NEXT> Unidentified: And here are some of the artwork, around on the walls. That's the end of the show for now. But we're not done yet. We have our math carnival on

[R12399-140] Unidentified | Unidentified - Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (presents Map | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: of people come walk through our halls. Our RSVP list was pushing for hundred at one point, and they had stations set up throughout the school where you could look at the artwork on the walls and then have all sorts of different literacy activities.
TEXT> And here are some of the artwork, around on the walls. That's the end of the show for now.  But we're not done yet. We have our math carnival on June 3rd, right after our arts presentation or our  movie night on six  two. We've got field day and all sorts of other end of year festivities coming up. So thank you for letting me show how special of a place Maple is. I'm really proud of the work that the staff and students have done all year.  Even when things get hard, they come with a smile on their face, a little, a little laugh, a little fun, and a whole lot of love. And so thank you for allowing me to share what a special place people is.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[R12399-157] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Questions at the end. So.
TEXT> At the top I have the, the three programs that that we use to  put together this financial summary. The, the Elementary Behavior program was the what we call the pride program. And this is something that we started in 1819 with,  you know, in coordination with with the board members. I think we're all very excited about trying to bring students back into the community and then simultaneously reduce our our out of district placement costs, which were which were growing exponentially at the elementary school level at the time. The the second program along the the top there is the elementary autism program.  We  roughly 1920, I think it was 1920. We started that by contracting with NEC or New England Center for children. They came in and ran the satellite program for us.  We we ended our contract with them after the first year  because after just looking at the programing that they offered and the and the cost of the contract, we were able to do it cheaper by hiring our own staff and, and, our own teachers and staff for that. So,   and then the third one is  autism program for the high school. This is similar to the life skills program that Kelly Fontaine has run for many years, but  tends to serve students that are that are more severely disabled there. Michael, any any more on that in terms of program description you want?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: No, no.

[R12399-159] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I got Frank and then Steve' [43 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: No, no.
TEXT> Just how many kids are in each program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Right now. The numbers in the elementary program are ten. We we have a capacity of 14 there. So we we have, you know, capacity to take additional students. The

[R12399-160] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Just how many kids are in each program.
TEXT> Right now.  The numbers in the elementary program are  ten. We we have a capacity of 14 there. So we we have, you know, capacity to take additional students. The elementary program, the autism program, which is housed at bluff, currently has five kiddos. Again, capacity is greater there as well.  And capacity. What's that?
NEXT> Unidentified: What's the max capacity?

[R12399-163] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Ben Nester: well. So what I, what I did here was I include I tallied this as 17 total students, currently being served with the capacity to serve more students without adding without adding additional staff. So just the quick breakdown on the right hand side here.
TEXT> The total operational costs for all three programs, right around 686,000. That includes staffing and supplies.  Then I the second second  row down there, I included, excuse me, I'm just a little under the weather today, so bear with my voice. The,  the second column down there.  I took the 17 students and and came up with an estimation of the added district placement costs, plus a fairly conservative calculation of additional transportation costs. And that came up with a figure of about 1.8 million to serve those 17 kiddos that that historically would have been in not a district placement or would have been a really strong candidate for our district placement.  Then the variance between the the  operational costs and the the projected cost for the 17 kids, if they were to be out brings us to 1.1 million, right? So that's 1.1 million. On the plus side,  however, going down one more column, if we factor in revenue from the state, which shows up on the revenue side of our of our budget sheet, you know, looking at Sped aid on 1.8 million at a 68%, which is what historically the state is giving us. They don't give us the full 100%.
NEXT> Ben Nester: They give us a pro ratio of that amount. So that that means we're looking at roughly 510,000 in, in state funding. And all that factored in. We're looking at

[R12399-164] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Ben Nester: revenue from the state, which shows up on the revenue side of our of our budget sheet, you know, looking at Sped aid on 1.8 million at a 68%, which is what historically the state is giving us. They don't give us the full 100%.
TEXT> They give us a pro ratio of that amount. So that that means we're looking at roughly 510,000 in, in state funding.  And all that factored in. We're looking at  total savings or cost avoidance by running these programs of around 623,000. One one more note on this. As I was looking at this just before the board meeting, I recognized an error in my calculation. And the error is that the two tuition students that are mentioned in the note over on the far left, these are two Fall Mountain students that that currently tuition in.  I did not include them or I did not exclude them from the calculation. So they're in the 17. So that does make the numbers slightly less favorable.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I.

[R12399-166] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: So I.
TEXT> Did some some additional calculation not reflected on your sheet. And if I factor in their their costs and I also factor in the  the tuition that we receive from Fall Mountain, which is roughly 43,000 a kid, give or take a few thousand, depending on their services.  That would bring the the truer total savings and cost avoidance to around 585,000. So a little off from the 623 there. So, you know, long and short of it, you know, my recommendation is that we continue to to operate the programs from a financial perspective. I think it it does result in some, you know, in some savings for the for the district and the taxpayer. So.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I was on the board when this first came about. And we always knew, I think, that this was going to be a cost of ordnance and not a,

[R12399-168] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I got Frank and then Steve' [43 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: you know, follow them there. So I think in my opinion, these have been really beneficial programs as far as cost of audience and as far as keeping our kids close to home where they need to be. So I got Frank and then Steve.
TEXT> So we, we, our last meeting, we've we got a letter from  Jane Bergeron in the context of that was front of the court, legislation. So as I look at the high school autism program, we ever encounter parents who, don't want their kids to come back into our programing? We do. And how do we react to that?
NEXT> Ben Nester: It it depends on the case. By and large, I mean. You know, our parents have a pretty, a pretty good working relationship with David Cochrane and myself and and

[R12399-171] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Wouldn't they have to have evidence that the program, our present, our program lacks something that their kid needs to do that?
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah, I mean that, you know, parents that are that are. You know, certain parents have may have strong feelings or had a very positive experience or not a district program. And, you know, on occasion don't really dig their heels in,  you know, that they want their child to remain there. It's, you know, it's it does if if a district and a parent is, is in disagreement about a matter like that, that's pretty substantive. It does it does become a legal matter where our attorney against the communicate with their attorney and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Due.

[R12399-173] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Due.
TEXT> Process through due process. You know, we haven't we haven't done that yet. You know, what we've done in a few cases, Frank, is if we really targeted one student, we felt they're ready to come back. And the the parent was disagreeable.  You know, we've been able to target other students that we've got were right on the verge to and and those parents being more agreeable. So we were able to, to find students to come back that we generally felt were ready in most cases. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Stephen.

[R12399-176] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: it's actually another tuition based piece. When we did the total cost savings. And I understand you, you've missed the the cost of the students. Yeah. I just want to verify that we're not operating at a loss on those students to be tuition students.
TEXT> No.  If I, if I understand your correct your question correct, Steve. We're we're billing we're billing fall mountain for each of those two students to the tune of anywhere from 41 to 46,000.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: What's our revenue roughly on that? Should be positive, I would assume.

[R12399-178] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: What's our revenue roughly on that? Should be positive, I would assume.
TEXT> Yeah. The  I mean, right now we're not we're not hiring additional staff to serve the students. We're doing it with existing staff. So that's, that's that's entirely revenue about 4140.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That's where I was confused as to how the total cost of ordnance went down. If it because that would have if we're charging roughly 43,000 per and it's supposed

[R12399-180] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: total cost of ordnance went down. If it because that would have if we're charging roughly 43,000 per and it's supposed to be straight revenue, I would have thought we would have had just over 700,000. That was where I was going with my manager.
TEXT> And anybody that does math better than I, Richard can jump in on this one. The reason it went down is I, as I did my figures, is when I look at the 1.1 variance that was a that sort of in essence of savings before I take out the state funding, I was including two students right in that in that count.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So what you're saying is, is you when you did the original presentation, you double dipped on the okay. Exactly. So that's the answer I was there you go.

[R12399-189] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: 3 or 400,000.
TEXT> Yeah. High school was our biggest number this past year because of a handful of very pricey placements. Yeah. You know, the good news with middle school, if you know, is that we do have a good partnership with Granite Hill next door in Newport, and  they're, you know, they're a good partner. They offer their own transportation.  And that transportation cost is figured into their total tuition costs. And so with that in mind, they're the cheapest game in town by far. So we we work closely with them. For a number of students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are they cheaper than us? I mean, are they cheaper than what it costs us per student?

[R12399-190] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I got Frank and then Steve' [43 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Ben Nester: a good partner. They offer their own transportation. And that transportation cost is figured into their total tuition costs. And so with that in mind, they're the cheapest game in town by far. So we we work closely with them. For a number of students.
TEXT> Are they cheaper than us? I mean, are they cheaper than what it costs us per student?
NEXT> Ben Nester: They they run about 60 grand, roughly speaking. So they're a little higher than what we're charging there for the elementary level. I mean, if you if you factored in

[R12399-194] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'Mister Nestor. Update on | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> But right now, a lot of our middle school students that need heavy duty therapeutic behavioral programing attend  Granite Hill. And we're thankful that that they're a good partner.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I know that part of the pride programs mission was to reduce the need for services moving forward, and that we would see a positive impact. Fully, I know

[R12399-204] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Start on this one with Bonnie'  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: Friday and they come in. They most likely have not eaten. Until they get fed again on Monday morning. So meals within our systems, meals within our society in general, our for their at risk students that we have is just a huge, huge challenge.
TEXT> How many students are there that are not fed during the weekend?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We really don't know the answer to that. All we know are the kids had come in on Monday and say, can I get two breakfast please? And we have

[R12399-206] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Start on this one with Bonnie'  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: a part of the program, so we're trying to find anything we can to perpetuate what we've had here, which is really strong participation in taking meals during while it was free and trying to continue it. Going for my program to recover the caps.
TEXT> I remember hearing about a program where the students took a backpack home with food for the weekend. Was that from the school or.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Those were one of the local churches?

[R12399-208] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: Those were one of the local churches?
TEXT> We well, we had it during this period where we could provide weekend meals during the during the free time here. What they also have is restrictions on how you can provide meals. So you can't just give it to them. They actually have to eat it in together in a in a room or in the building. So there are different types of requirements in order for us to get reimbursements. Again, I'm not familiar with the backpack program except for what went on during the pandemic.  But if there's something out there. I'll certainly take a look at. What we can do is try and get food to kids over the weekends.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R12399-213] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I got Frank and then Steve' [43 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: About.
TEXT> Kids getting, you know, taking an ice cream and things like whatever, extra things and also  being slow to react to, to kids getting in arrears, also making sure that kids who are eligible for free and reduced lunch got the paperwork home. So I'm hoping that all of that those lessons learned are still somewhere in the archives of consciousness.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The lessons, I think, are identified. Frank, I don't know that there is a good answer to it. The the policy of the district, as I understand it, is we

[R12399-214] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: being slow to react to, to kids getting in arrears, also making sure that kids who are eligible for free and reduced lunch got the paperwork home. So I'm hoping that all of that those lessons learned are still somewhere in the archives of consciousness.
TEXT> The lessons, I think, are identified. Frank, I don't know that there is a good answer to it. The the  policy of the district, as I understand it, is we are not going to decline a child a meal. So if a child comes through, we're not going to say, can you pay? Can you? Not if you can pay, you can have a hot meal and anything that's over here. And if you can't pay, we'll give you a baloney sandwich or a cheese sandwich over here. So any child that comes through and asks for a meal, we're going to provide them with a meal when they come in and they provide their ID card. No one knows whether or not they have money on their account for that, because we're giving them a meal. And here it is. We will continue to have challenges on some of the collections as it relates to those that take a meal and they don't have the money on on their account. We are doing and are looking at the procedure for following up with parents and doing collections and trying to deal with that as it occurs and not waiting till the end, or when it's a much larger number.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The other piece that we, I was talking about today with one of the, the proposed vendors, is that we get out of offering what is basically a la carte.

[R12399-215] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: the money on on their account. We are doing and are looking at the procedure for following up with parents and doing collections and trying to deal with that as it occurs and not waiting till the end, or when it's a much larger number.
TEXT> The other piece that we, I was talking about today with one of the, the proposed vendors, is that we get out of offering what is basically a la carte. So you can't just get an ice cream or some cookies or something like that. You need to get a meal and the meal has everything in there.  What it also keeps kids from doing is getting $3 from their parents for a day, spending $3 on a la carte stuff, and also taking a meal and charging it. And that's it. So there are a number of things that take place, but the the issue of collecting on a, on a balance, if the child has not paid or the parents don't pay, I don't have a good answer for that. I know we've discussed it and no more than willing to, and I think we need to discuss further, familiarize. Parents again with. How they can go in and monitor. What.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Because.

[R12399-224] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Where.
TEXT> I think it was probably the first summer that we had done very, very well with, with cash flow from,  lunches. But I haven't heard this year based on the most recent. So this would have been the May invoice from Abby group, I estimate will probably have a surplus on food service here this year of about $300,000. Okay. The money that we received this surplus needs to be spent on food related, something. We've been having conversations. It hasn't reached a point even to, you know, to finalize with Mike and to bring to the board on how can we utilize that. There's no doubt that our kitchen, some of our equipment needs upgrading, whether it be the refrigerators or the stove tops, etc. if anyone who's been in the middle school and seen the middle school cafeteria layout,  there really isn't a middle school cafeteria layout. It's just sort of brought to an open space. And it it doesn't work very well, even though we have a huge participation there.  So starting conversation to see whether or not we can build or is there something we can do to create a better environment for kids to come in and get through the line, pick up the things they need in order to improve what's going on there.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So there's some opportunities that I would like to bring forward on how we might be able to utilize that surplus within the food service operation. Because it's a one

[R12399-237] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Start on this one with Bonnie'  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: So that first okay.
TEXT> So I have a question being being new to this group, the students who can't afford to pay for their food, do we pay for it. Does that money come from the state federal. It's federal.
NEXT> Unidentified: Only if they fill the paperwork out. So the problem is, is we do have a a meaningful number of families or students that do not fill out the paperwork

[R12399-238] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member asking about the PRIDE pr | 2022-05-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: So I have a question being being new to this group, the students who can't afford to pay for their food, do we pay for it. Does that money come from the state federal. It's federal.
TEXT> Only if they fill the paperwork out. So the problem is, is we do have a a meaningful number of families or students that do not fill out the paperwork for free or reduced lunch.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So, as Richard described, if if my kid goes through the line and gets a lunch and they're not qualified for free and reduced lunch for not going to deny

[R12399-239] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Only if they fill the paperwork out. So the problem is, is we do have a a meaningful number of families or students that do not fill out the paperwork for free or reduced lunch.
TEXT> So, as Richard described, if if my kid goes through the line and gets a lunch and they're not qualified for free and reduced lunch for not going to deny that child a meal, they're going to get the meal and then.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: It'll go on in the count.

[R12399-245] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Start on this one with Bonnie'  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: restrictions are so tight, we can't say, Whitney, you didn't put in an application, you know Steve and you didn't you? It's got to be a broad across the building. And it's an ongoing challenge to make sure we get as many to participate in.
TEXT> Then I just I can't get over the fact that there are students here who are fed on Friday and don't get a  set until Monday. I just can't bear that thought of. That's terrible. And and plus they're not getting the nutrition. So they're not getting the education up in here. And just to let them go hungry for two days. These are it just doesn't seem like an hour here. It happens here. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah. There.

[R12399-250] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair asked 'Richard' to  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: the problem as well. Is that one the stigma of it, I mean, the stigma of going to the soup kitchen to get a meal is still there. And to maybe some the responsibility of the parents have to an adult has to do that.
TEXT> So and we could have a conversation on this that we're willing to commit X amount of dollars to this specific need, whether it be during vacation time or some other. I don't know what they are, but we can have those conversations and the board can allocate a certain amount of either surplus food or from the from local funds to say, we want to have additional opportunity for food security based on the benefits you get on a Monday morning when a child spent and reasonably rested to start to learn. Yeah.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: There must be some school social workers like Courtney Porter probably knows some of these families who are really in need of this. Yeah.

[R12399-259] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Start on this one with Bonnie'  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Well, I'm.
TEXT> Going back to the school lunch program if we're going to vote on this next, next,  next time around, I wonder if we should have Courtney come and speak to us about how many kids she really knows to help us with our decision? And I mean, does she know that all the.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Two separate.

[R12400-29] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [34-50] an | 2022-05-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the like. So. And at the same time, we had a shift within the technology department. We're lucky enough to, to retain Mr. Small and put him in the leadership position he's currently thriving in now and, and but he we had two network administrators.
TEXT> We didn't fill one and we also didn't fill the administrative assistant. So there's four positions.  And we did that when we came in because  particularly when we were looking at the staffing at the,  at the middle school, knowing that students didn't have a full  at Claremont, they didn't have, a full complement of, of core electives. They only had half a year of  social studies and half a year of science. We decided to take those positions and put them in the classroom and, well, we could right away in the summer to for the fall so that that's where we  left it.  In my proposal on this would  to look look at the staffing to eliminate the merit pool, look at the staffing. As people have said in the other meeting and  in maybe come back with a proposal for that next year. And but that's my recommendation on that. And that's, that's those are the only items that I had in the superintendent's report for the.
NEXT> Unidentified: Shortest week.

[R12400-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [34-50] an | 2022-05-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: who still do building or do technical services at unity, who aren't necessarily in the same year as it were. Right. And and we there's been some sharing and things like that. So I do think an objective outside of wood might, might be warranted.
TEXT> But I also want to make sure that we have, in proportion to,  districts of other size, of similar size. So if we think of,  and I still can't get used to it, I'm trying to get used to it. But if Claremont is the eighth largest city in New Hampshire, it is,  I believe so we in the or the elements that we have, the amount of students we have, there's ways to look at a paper review, but also to have someone come out from the school board, Association, administration Association, Nasdaq does a lot of studies like that. And maybe we can get some in. There's also a little bit of segue into the essay retreat.  We could we already  and I could talk about that when  but we could have Will Phillips. He's intended on coming out anyway for a retreat if we do something in the summer or later, later in the next couple of months. So but I think it's we could put something together and we would. We still have to take a  dive into it. But there are some, some obvious things that we, we don't have any more that are fairly substantial.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: And so are you. So are you saying that you prefer not to have New Hampshire School Administrators Association do the evaluation?

[R13420-56] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the 6/15/22 meeting, recognitions a | 2022-06-15
PREV> Steven Horsky: I'd like to make a motion to approve the meeting. Minutes from May 18th, 2022.
TEXT> Second seconded by Joshua. Any discussion? All those in favor? I posed. All right. I think that's all. The April 6th is in process. Thank you for all those minutes. All right. We are on to citizens comments. Just a reminder that citizens comments will be also part of any of the  discussion items. So any citizens comments on non-agenda items. All right. Seeing none, we're going to move on.  We do not have a student rep tonight due to being the last week of school and finals week. So she she hopefully is home studying. So we are under our discussion and action items.  Discussion. I remember one, the Claremont district data presentation.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: Okay. So everyone has a pack in front of them and she's school. So our high school, SAT scores on a five year average. Some things to note about the

[R13420-58] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: Hampshire. So looking at the five year average. One of the things to consider is that this is something that happens in March and March of junior year, which is rather early for students because we're looking at particularly for the math piece of it.
TEXT> We're looking at, skills that that are often go all the way up to pre-calculus. And students sometimes have not encountered pre calc until senior year. So essentially being tested on things that they haven't yet studied. You'll notice that, across some of the schools on the next slide you actually see a  first for many of the schools. Not for all of them, but for many of the schools. There's actually a little bit of a bump for 2020 in 2020. Of course, schools  closed down on March 13th prior to the testing, and the 2020 test was administered to seniors in  October or November. October.  Of of their senior year. So there was a  bit of an increase. I know that  we like to see how we're doing comparatively to schools that have,  size and socioeconomic demographics that are similar to ours. We like to look at our neighbors  as well. So for your  reading and comparison enjoyment, you've got, Six other schools there, a couple neighbors and others that just seem to suit our,  similar size. Stop me if there's any questions. I'm happy to entertain questions.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do we incorporate the students that take the SATs over? Is there any way we can get those schools? You know, often students take them more than once and.

[R13420-59] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (addressed as Heather by the guidanc | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: like to look at our neighbors as well. So for your reading and comparison enjoyment, you've got, Six other schools there, a couple neighbors and others that just seem to suit our, similar size. Stop me if there's any questions. I'm happy to entertain questions.
TEXT> Do we incorporate  the students that take the SATs over? Is there any way we can get those schools? You know, often students take them more than once and.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: Right. Glad that you're here, Mimi, because that's a guidance counselor question at the high school. How we're tracking for students that that retest in October, November and December of

[R13420-60] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we incorporate the students that take the SATs over? Is there any way we can get those schools? You know, often students take them more than once and.
TEXT> Right.  Glad that you're here, Mimi, because that's a guidance counselor question at the high school.  How we're tracking for students that that  retest in October, November and December of senior year.
NEXT> Unidentified: When they do the state testing in the state.

[R13420-62] Mimi | Stevens High School guidance counselor; Ward 1 resident (presenter: 'G | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: When they do the state testing in the state.
TEXT> And so we have a portal to college board so I can look up a kids scores. You know, like, Heather, if I know you took it over one scores release, I can look up that score and see it.  So if we know kids took it, we can look it up. We don't always know if kids took it. They don't come and tell us they're going to go retake the SATs that weekend. You know what I mean?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So we don't look for that information either right now?

[R13420-72] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (addressed as Heather by the guidanc | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Well, well.
TEXT> The way the state of New Hampshire does is my understanding is that every student is required to take it in other states. Only college bound students tend to take the SATs.
NEXT> Mimi: Gotcha.

[R13420-86] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> In the city is more of an eastern test.  So statistically, more kids take the act in the country.  The other thing,  back from my days in guidance,  there is a report from the city where you can you can go you can filter by by date.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R13420-102] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Sure, sure.
TEXT> Okay, so our next slide is the is just a colorful way to look at the  information from  prior to. And if you wanted to spend more time  on a quiet Sunday trying to figure out what all of this means and make assumptions of why,  things happen the way they do.  Good luck.  Sometimes the numbers are only what they are, and there's so many stories behind every number and reasons why things happen. I don't have the answers to,  some of the things that you're looking at there. I can only speak to this district and only to the year here if. What just happened? There we go.  The AP exam performance and course is offered in 2021. We had 14 students in AP lit. We had 13 students in US history in 2020. We offered AP chem to seven students in AP Language Arts to 19 students for the national exam. If you think of a one as a as a, not a passing score, if you will, a two is maybe a D, a three is a C, a four and a five is B's and A's.  You have a breakdown here noting that with the AP classes often nationally, some colleges will accept students who have fours and fives to be able to bypass, say, English 101 or math or science class.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: So the force and the fives are kind of the scores that that students are oftentimes looking for. In order to be able to, to save themselves the college credits,

[R13420-103] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: a four and a five is B's and A's. You have a breakdown here noting that with the AP classes often nationally, some colleges will accept students who have fours and fives to be able to bypass, say, English 101 or math or science class.
TEXT> So the force and the fives are kind of the scores that that students are oftentimes looking for.  In order to be able to, to save themselves the college credits, our performance in those is has not been  maybe,  is productive as we would like. I think that the move towards looking at some of the community college courses where kids can actually take the college classes through dual enrollment, be able to walk away with those credits and then walk into college in some cases, as you've heard this year. Sometimes we have had students who have graduated who have associate degrees with their high school diploma. So  a little bit maybe more sense to to approach it that way.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm interested and we don't have to.

[R13420-106] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (fragments  | 2022-06-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: at least a three. I personally scored four and fives on all of my AP exams. And so looking at these scores, it's kind of like like were they paying attention? Do do they not select the higher achieving students into these courses. Like what.
TEXT> And so when you're you're. Stumbling into all of those really valid questions that I was just. Referring. To have, you can sit here and make all kinds of assumptions of what's happening. But each each number behind each number is a different story. Is it is it a student issue? Is it a homework issue? Is it a teacher issue? Is it a foundational issue? And there's going to be different answers for each one of these numbers.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R13420-114] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven.' [2], [52], [ | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: day for hours on end that the teachers volunteer their time to do Saturday instruction. So the idea that we're trying to cram a an AP course into three and a half months is insane, frankly. So there's another story behind the numbers, right? Yeah.
TEXT> So I mean, that I,  I kind of I'm following with Whitney here,  because it's like we're offering these courses, but we're setting the students up for failure based off our schedule layout works with these courses. And it's disappointing. And I would love to see a documented trend of how this was previous years as well, if available.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[R13420-118] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Years back.
TEXT> When I was sitting on the board, ten years ago, we had the same issues  and which was a board decision at that time to ensure you had at least had math each year, because you would have kids who took all their math by their sophomore year, took the tests. And this this was now me. What was the name.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of the test?

[R13420-124] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Done by.
TEXT> Raid level. So you've got third grade at the bottom,  first left hand corner moving through. You've got the state comparison at the far  right.  Looking at the years, there's some noticeable Covid dips at some grade levels. Not at every grade level. Sixth grade seems to have held firm.  But you'll notice, like seventh grade has a 2021 dip coming off  a year, which had an awful lot of interruptions and remote learning as to fifth grade. So math is something I want to dig into a little bit more in just a few minutes.  Particularly as one of our spots for focus Ela proficiency on the next slide. Again, some of those trends that you see for 2021 are red line,  some dips, some recoveries that at some of those grade levels, I have to, you know, make sure that that we understand that the largest academic impact was often on our youngest learners losing that time at a very important, fundamental level when they were picking up those skills of literacy and math. And we're seeing we're seeing that, in these scores, the science proficiency for New Hampshire is given,  at fifth grade, eighth grade and level grade. And science is another topic that I want to deal with when we get towards the end of the presentation. But you can see,
NEXT> Mary Ellen: Statewide, performance is, is, significantly higher than district performance has been. And we'll talk further about the unevenness of that and what's in place to rectify that. The next slide

[R13420-143] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: program and you're, you're looking at it reviewing curriculum, that's a process that that should to be done with, with fidelity and due diligence should, should be something that takes place over an extended period of time, two years to three years in some districts.
TEXT> But to be able to, to we don't have that kind of time. We don't. We have some,  low hanging fruit, if you will. And one of those things that,  was was very evident walking in the door here for me was that our science curriculum was at the elementary level, particularly, was almost nonexistent. The teachers had access to Mystery Science, which is a terrific,  program that's aligned to the National Science standards. But there has not been implementation with fidelity. Teachers were did not have any mandates on. Here's what you need to to do for hours. Here's what you should be covering for lessons. Here's what the expectation is around assessments so that we can start to build a data  and benchmark. So to that end, it was it was really easy to, to look at the mystery science, get together  a k to 12  science advisory board and be able to put in some super,  logical supports for the teachers, which include, first and foremost, giving them the ability to, to do the hands on,  labs for kids by purchasing the kits for each classroom.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: And that's it's like a small thing, but it's a huge thing when you are trying to to get together lessons for the different content areas as elementary teachers are,

[R13420-149] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: this product. What do you have? What's happening? And they said, so glad you called because we have something. We've listened to the complaints nationally from teachers and we we have this updated version of Math and Focus and we're happy to send you samples.
TEXT> So we spent  two of our PD days at grade level, district wide, got everybody together in their grade level rooms, got them the kits and had them going through the books. And, you know, that probably remains my most favorite day in this district so far. That was the day that I went home and I thought, yep, we're making a change and everybody is on board with this. We feel good about it. Teachers were going through going, oh my God. Here's the rubrics. And they've got the assessments. And look, they fix this and and wow, the big heavy books are gone. And we've got these are consumables. Does every kid going to have this. Because this is going to make a huge difference for us. And are we getting the manipulatives. Absolutely. And again like the mystery science just feeling supported having those parameters around what the expectations are for learning moving forward. We adults are no different than than children. We we we may buck a little bit at some framework and discipline, but we we like it because it tells us that we're on track. It tells us we're moving the right direction.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: It helps us to understand what the expectations are for us. You can't meet a goal if you don't even know what the goal is. So for the mystery, science

[R13420-154] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mary Ellen: and able to lead that will, will make a large difference. Data assessments and grants manager is another, role that we, felt that we needed to be able to start building this data culture because we don't have a lot of data to look at.
TEXT> We don't have a lot of benchmarks. We're not advocating for more standardized testing of kids. No one is saying, let's, let's have kids sit and test more. But we do need to figure out when we do test. There's so much more that we can do that we haven't had the capacity yet to do. Even with I ready to be able to create those data meetings with teachers and say, let's look at what's happening for this individual student, and here's how you can target this. This is what this means for this kiddo, that they're struggling with phonemic awareness. Here's what you can do. Here's kind of the prescription that diagnosis. So that we're bringing we've got somebody else  who who's able to help gather that and then be able to to be someone at the table who can lead those conversations around the data that can help to to also support those conversations with the literacy specialist and with the principals, because we want that whole culture.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: We want the principals as the instructional leaders in their building, to be involved in those conversations with the teachers, their in their every day, day in and day out.

[R13420-183] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: So educator it.
TEXT> Yeah. It's an educator position. And so for the data piece of it as well. That's also a push in piece for understanding. Oh well this for you know this is the component for phonemic awareness for this kid kind of thing.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So what I understand.

[R13420-186] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (addressed as Heather by the guidanc | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Today and I might.
TEXT> Clarify or not. So this person is helpful  assessing the data that we have and helping to develop intervention for certain students with the data points that we do have.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R13420-199] Mary Ellen | SAU 6 curriculum administrator, first year in the district (presents t | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: It's it's I'm not telling you anything you don't know. But, you know, our single largest.
TEXT> Problem is, is in our teacher turnover that we're constantly training people.  And if we don't have the money for trainings or Covid got in the way, people were thrown into the trenches to swim the best way they could. And, you know, if we can kind of stop a little bit of that bleed and we can get consistency with our teaching staff, we have it. And I want to close on this note because. I mean it. The Math and focus day was my favorite day at work because. Being with we have teachers who are so dedicated. We have teachers who go extra miles for kids. We have principals who go extra miles for kids. It was lovely to hear them. The elementary principals share with you all the wonderful things that happened. We we have those elements in the district, but we have suffered greatly from our turnover. We're constantly training, shifting, getting new people in the time and the money that it takes, even just my office and my staff to to do new teacher orientation and support the mentor program. I mean, we are right now in my office, we are we are two and a half people trying to do the work of 5 or 6 people.
NEXT> Mary Ellen: And the most important work that we do, the teachers, are the most important. That's the reason we're all here, is to have high quality teachers in front of our

[R13420-209] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: It's huge.
TEXT> If it was the same test, how can you kids possibly be losing ground.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R13420-217] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: We did have an evaluation criteria which was provided from the state. We utilize their their criteria as well as adding in our own, which was what was the nature of the financial proposal that they came in with and have waited them this way.
TEXT> So the financial proposal, we've waited that 30 points  experience. References service capability 20 points. Accounting and Reporting systems ten points. Personnel management and training ten points. Innovation, marketing, merchandizing five points. Involvement of students, staff, patrons, and the community five points. Menus. Concepts come out of these food quality  and portion size the 15 points and then they're recommended staffing that they're looking to get all this done with. And said that that would be a five point criteria. This is more  than it looked like on my screen. But  what we have here is now the comparison between Abby Group and,  cafe services. So on the financial proposal and the way the financial proposal comes in is they have their own estimates and we're going to serve this many meals. And based on that, it extrapolates out into and revenue side and expense side. And, you know, you could sit all day long and say, how come you said you want to do 18,000 kids versus 17? And how did you come up with 17? With over the last two years, we haven't really had any of these. So I evaluated their financial proposal more based on worst case, because in the case of Abby Group, and as they had in our current contract, they said it'll be no worse than break.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Even. So the cost of the food service will be no less than zero if we sell more lunches. If we're able to do more programs, any upside comes to

[R13420-220] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: How can they do that?
TEXT> They take a look at the projections based on their experience, the number of kids and their ability to serve more meals. Maintain the expenses and their determination is they're comfortable with being able to provide this. Now, we invited each one of them back in after the RFP came in, and after we had our list and went through each one of the questions, and it was exactly one of them for Cafe services, was exactly that. How can you guarantee for five years a $25,000 surplus? Now that's the surplus coming back to us. And their response to this is based on based on our knowledge of food service, our knowledge of reimbursements, our confidence in our marketing, our merchandizing, getting kids to utilize more meals. We're very comfortable with the ability to be able to do that. And their financial position, their balance sheet is more than strong enough to be able to support it. So this isn't a question of them saying they can do it and won't have the the wherewithal to do it,  to be able to basically pay out on that questions as we go along.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Yeah. Just a quick one. Does that mean that they would charge more per lunch?

[R13420-222] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Joshua Lambert: Yeah. Just a quick one. Does that mean that they would charge more per lunch?
TEXT> No. They're charging. They're charging whatever price per lunch. The board sets and we set they and the reimbursements are based on a federal level. The expenses are based on what they buy, the menus and their ability to best manage that. If you figure you're going to have 200 kids, you make 300 meals. Your financials aren't going to support these kind of numbers, but their experience and again, this is all we can do is ask. We'll find out if they're actually able to do it. But all we can do is really ask on this one okay Richard, one quick.
NEXT> Unidentified: So you may have said this when I was reading the. So I apologize if you did. Who who generated the ratings.

[R13420-239] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: again, here's where they're a little bit, at knowing them as well as we do hurts them. We have seen the turnover that has gone on with Abby Group. We saw it not only in the pandemic but pre to the end to the pandemic.
TEXT> We've seen it with their regional person, with the local person who is our on site. We've seen it with the training that has come in or lack thereof when new people are coming on board. And in looking at that, it has not been as strong as we would hope for. Are they dealing in a tough market? Absolutely. But we saw what happened as that turnover took place. We weren't seeing support coming in from their corporate office. We weren't seeing support coming  down from Paul's. To help address the fact that you've got significant turnover, how do you maintain quality? How do you maintain all the things that we need to do to stay in compliance on our food service? So that's the reason why they were graded lower in this case than Cafe services, innovation, marketing and merchandizing. This is a really important thing, more when it comes to the high school than it is when the elementary school. We lose a lot of our high school kids that go out and get alternatives around the school building. They'll go to Tremont, they'll go to Cumberland Farms. And what can we do to keep them in the building and buy the food that we have here?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And it is absolutely merchandizing and is absolutely marketing and trying to appeal to the kids that are in the building. Our, our the number of meals we serve in

[R13420-241] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: outside of the pick. We don't have those either. And this is a part of and this is the drive on the side of the food management service to push volume through is they want more of these kids and more the meals being done.
TEXT> So we know what's going on with Abby. Group I've seen with with Cafe services. We saw what they do and some of the things they do over in Newport, like taco trucks and, you know, different types of pizza days that are different than ours, different types of days or cookouts and things or pasta days. We haven't had those in five years. And therefore, does it mean cafe services are going to do it perfectly? No, but at least the way we're looking at it right now, it appears they're going to be able to do it better than the Abbey Group. Involvement of student staff, patrons and the community. I'm not quite sure what a patron is in this case, but involvement of people in in the process. It's been very hard during the pandemic to get our Wellness Committee together in order to be able to do this, but the drive on getting the Wellness Committee together and getting feedback from our from our,  different, our different audiences here has been driven by us.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We have not gotten the level of support from Abby Group in getting this done. Now part of that is us pushing on them. Part of it is them coming

[R13420-242] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: very hard during the pandemic to get our Wellness Committee together in order to be able to do this, but the drive on getting the Wellness Committee together and getting feedback from our from our, different, our different audiences here has been driven by us.
TEXT> We have not gotten the level of support from Abby Group in getting this done. Now part of that is us pushing on them. Part of it is them coming and saying, this is a part of our job in order to be able to do it. So we did Mark Abby group down a little bit on this one again, is cafe service is going to be doing it better when I speak with the business managers. When we were up talking with the people within the buildings, we heard a stronger argument related to cafe services than we heard related to Abby Group, but it's a relatively low score. Menus, concepts, commodities, food quality,  portioning they're both really good at it.  We do and have had issues on portioning. For example, inside of our elementary schools. There's nothing that pisses off a little kid more than your piece of pizza is bigger than my piece of pizza. You got this, I got this. I didn't get this. You. I mean, this is. And it's more systemic than we would like to have gone. Part of this is training. Part of this is oversight. Part of it is having the stronger regional support. So we have had some issues in their food quality. We've had issues on food quality now.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Food quality as in bad, no food quality as how does it compare to other school districts? How consistent is it? How does it compare between Maple Bluff and Disney?

[R13420-251] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the 6/15/22 meeting, recognitions a | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: We may have. And whether or not it's enforced on the 10th graders or people sneaking out of a door is another issue.
TEXT> So hearsay has it that there's some there had been some issue where the older kids bringing lunch back to the other kids, so the older kids may run to the calls, whether bring some of the younger kids food. So there that I believe that's been an ongoing issue that they're trying to clamp down on.  Much of the dismay of younger kids. But, well.
NEXT> Unidentified: We also.

[R13420-277] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (addressed as Heather by the guidanc | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: we'll put it to one thing or another, how it's done, but at least we know if there's a bona fide reason or a recommendation that we have the ability within the food service process to be able to address any of those delinquent accounts.
TEXT> So if we're if we have delinquent students, they're still going to give us a $25,000. They are.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Because what they're looking at is their cost. And what the I mean, when the delinquent student comes in and they and they put their card and they do it,

[R13420-278] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: So if we're if we have delinquent students, they're still going to give us a $25,000. They are.
TEXT> Because what they're looking at is their cost. And what the I mean, when the delinquent student comes in and they and they put their card and they do it, it's going on to an account from Cafe services point of view that is a collected revenue. It's not a bad debt. Same with Abbey Group. It's not a bad debt. We're finding out it's a bad debt. So even though they're come through and say, here's what we sold as far as we now come in and say the collections on this is $25,000 less, regardless of which player is in there, they don't know it on the day that they're that that they're that they're they're collecting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But they're owning it essentially with this 25,000.

[R13420-280] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: But they're owning it essentially with this 25,000.
TEXT> Well, in fact, they're owning it because they're saying, we will guarantee you a surplus. And with that surplus, you can do anything you want with it. If everyone's paying, it's a surplus available back to the food service. If everyone's not paying or we modify our policy on, you know, what we're going to do with kids who come through for a meal right now. Kid comes through with a meal. We're not questioning whether they have the money where they don't. Are they in arrears? Are they not? They come through with a meal, they swipe their tag. It goes through.
NEXT> Unidentified: So the Abbey Group does not guarantee us the profit.

[R13420-282] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: So the Abbey Group does not guarantee us the profit.
TEXT> They guarantee us no less than break even. But we know they're guaranteeing zero. If it's better, it's going to be better for both. It's based on volume, number of meals that are sold, number free, and reduce your ability to get kids to eat meals and get them either reimbursed or purchased. But at the worst case, Abbey Group is saying it won't cost you anything. Cafe services are saying worst case you will have a surplus of $25,000.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I'm misunderstanding this I think is in the past. So if every group says are zero. In the past we've had food service debt of $30,000 plus.

[R13420-286] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Job to.
TEXT> Bring the meal through, have the kid take the meal, and then that either triggers her reimbursement or the need to do collection. They assist us on the collections, they'll help to put out letters, etc. but it's our responsibility. If that debt cannot be covered, it's our bad debt. It's not there a bad debt. And going forward, it's our bad debt. It's not there a bad debt.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Okay, so it's the.

[R13420-289] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member questioning the food serv | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: take the meals. You need to make it a tractor for them to take, the meals you need to get them to return their free and reduced applications because that not only drives food service, it drives titles. It drives some of our other brands.
TEXT> I guess I don't know how anybody can guarantee you 25,000. Do they think that all the high school kids eat there?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I know what they're doing is based on their on their forecasts and their ability to get more meals, breakfasts, lunches, etc. they will guarantee that level.

[R13420-311] Mimi | Stevens High School guidance counselor; Ward 1 resident (presenter: 'G | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: So and we also and Melissa Lewis came, who was the only principal who could make the time to do it. So she came and visited on them also and gave us the elementary school perspective.
TEXT> But you didn't have any students go with you to taste them.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Not many students come with us on this. I mean, the visits were taking place at between 11 and 1:00.

[R13420-312] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mimi: But you didn't have any students go with you to taste them.
TEXT> Not many students come with us on this. I mean, the visits were taking place at between 11 and 1:00.
NEXT> Mimi: Which is obviously school time.

[R13420-314] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Mimi: Which is obviously school time.
TEXT> Do that. But what I would really hope is that as we get the wellness committees up and going, we get much more of a student involvement,  much more of the parents, should they desire to. Yeah, in order to because then we can modify the menu. We can we can push and provide the direction of what it is we're looking for.
NEXT> Mimi: I think because, you know, if you guys do go with fresh picks and you give them this year to kind of see how it goes, I think it's important

[R13420-315] Mimi | Stevens High School guidance counselor; Ward 1 resident (presenter: 'G | 2022-06-15
PREV> Richard Seaman: going, we get much more of a student involvement, much more of the parents, should they desire to. Yeah, in order to because then we can modify the menu. We can we can push and provide the direction of what it is we're looking for.
TEXT> I think because, you know, if you guys do go with fresh picks and you give them this year to kind of see how it goes, I think it's important to get student input on what they think of the food compared to this year's Abby group, especially with the high school kids, because they've had the food for the last five years, you know, and kind of see what they think.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yeah. And and it's a combination in my mind of what do they think? And when we provide them feedback three months in do they change. Right. That's yeah. That's

[R13420-323] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (chair introduces 'Mr. Sea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Josh: marketing, their strategies, could you just be a little bit more specific about what they're going to do differently? We heard an awful lot about sort of like management and things that will happen behind the scenes. But in the schools, what would be different?
TEXT> And the answer is that the menus are very are  comparable.  The things that kids really like to have at the elementary level, whether it be pizzas or the salad bars, another one at the elementary level, are consistent across each one of the offerings.  At the high school level, we're hearing, you know, a greater need on it says that they have choice of make to order sandwiches at the high school. Sometimes they are they back to doing them now as opposed to they're made and then they're opened and modified.
NEXT> Mimi: I think that came back with the salad bar. Okay. Yeah they do. They have like spicy mayo, mustard, all the different stuff. And like lettuce, tomatoes like it's it's

[R13420-342] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member asking about students lea | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: The discussion.
TEXT> Well, I, I agree, I think Cafe Services is much better. Way to go. My question was when the students leave for lunch to go wherever, do do they all come back? Are there a certain amount of them that just don't return once they've left the building for the day?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yeah.

[R13420-403] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reports on the clerk vacancy, police MOU and gr | 2022-06-15
PREV> Unidentified: Graduation, so yeah.
TEXT> So,  in the the update I have on that is it's not complete yet. So in the in the program, we saw where the students and I didn't know this. They, they kind of close out and  they put the, the profile together each year over the next  few weeks.  And they historically had had done that. The board had requested that we'll have that completed. So the difference between the two, you see, the intended plans  that were in the, the,  the program for graduation and that's actually  presented where everyone's going, but they look into also seeing, the, the of students that that graduate, what they take, how many what type of diploma they got all there's there's a more detail to it. And so we'll have an update on that. We kind of jumped the gun on that and I didn't know that. I'm I apologize for that.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I often on. Profile too is there's the the median SAT scores as well. The senior class. Yeah. And I think that might tie in to what Heather was asking

[R13420-415] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reports on the clerk vacancy, police MOU and gr | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: part of that was, access to enter the buildings. And we even talked about this just a few hours ago in this room with our At meeting. And we we did give them access, and passkeys exterior and interior masters so that they can exit.
TEXT> There'll be one in every cruiser so that they can get in the building quickly  in, in general, not to obviously, there's been a lot of that in, in the press with Uvalde and the like and the horrific,  you know, just  school shootings in general and things like that. So, so that is something that, that we have done. They, they have those we're going to meet tomorrow, hopefully execute that, that document. And it's something that, that most,  we have, we have a great relationship with police and fire.  What we want to do  more thoroughly though, and we talked about this as well, is have more actual planning and  meetings with them to drive the work that we've already have with our, our plans. And also,  just to get to know each other more and expectations and things like that. Talk about  roles and how we see that part of the plan  for the district, as you know, is to really focus on and have kids graduate as their intended and lower  the dropout rates and things like that. So one of the things we want to do is, is literally have everyone in the room talk about how we use that truancy officers, things that we're trying to have more more outreach, we have more outreach that we're doing.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we spoke about some of the ceremony used for that, for seed money to have people, people back as well in the fold of school school councils and just

[R13420-416] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (reports on the clerk vacancy, police MOU and gr | 2022-06-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and things like that. So one of the things we want to do is, is literally have everyone in the room talk about how we use that truancy officers, things that we're trying to have more more outreach, we have more outreach that we're doing.
TEXT> And we spoke about some of the ceremony used for that, for seed money to have people, people back  as well in the fold of school school councils and just have more conversations about how we're keeping, how we're working together to have everyone in and also what other schools do.  And we've done this before. And again, it's a tight I wanted to say it, you know, but I'll, I'll semi allude to things haven't been normal over the last couple of years. But it's good to get in there and, and have them in the, in the hallways practicing drills. I don't want  anyone to, but it's a common practice that they need to know all the facilities, everything about it. I can't stress enough. And you know, I'll get to it. My,  you know, the the superintendents  report and you saw that,  in the the resource officer and Sully and things like that. We're we're definitely in the house at graduation. It was pretty cool. We stole the show, but the, but it's also something that we, we, we've had for a long period of time, and it's, it's integral to the, the students and the other support. And, and we want to make sure they, they know exactly what we're doing in terms of, just like the board needs to know our handbook and things like that, our outreach and investigation and things like bullying and all those other things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have great partners, but we want to we want to ramp that up a little as well. And we need to, just like, you know, you don't want to

