[R15003-275] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: that we had noted in our work plan is looking into how adult education could happen here. I don't have the answer for that, but I can tell you that it is in the work plan as one of the items we're considering looking at.
TEXT> One other question I had was, it's may have been touched on in some more abstract way that I pick up on, but  is there any discussion about  public private partnerships specifically with manufacturers or businesses in our area that I was thinking maybe we could tie in financial commitments from them for our adult education to weigh in with students.
NEXT> Andy: So it would most likely come through the discussion in the part of the section that covers potential funding. We'd want to make sure that we have a list of

[R15003-325] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: That's good. I would just like to know what happened to the other 55.
TEXT> It we paid. We piloted to have the eighth graders come up with another activity to pay for the extra classes to again. To. To CTE. Teachers to get. More students involved.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So those dollars.

[R15003-329] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So just for clarity. So the fraction of that 100,000 was used to hire teachers at the middle school.
TEXT> At the CT. At the CT, teach extra outside their contracted agreement, okay. To have the eighth graders come in in an attempt to have that feeder have more  traction and have more students in the future at the take the courses. That was another activity. We used.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So that was independent outside of the recommendations of the Visioning Committee.

[R15022-68] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board Chair (elected 3/30/23), presiding; Claremont School Board | 2023-04-13
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> All those opposed? Any abstentions? Passes unanimously. Citizens. Comments. I do see one gentleman out there. Is this is your time? Nothing to say. Okay, moving on then. Student representative report. Hannah is not here this evening to give us a rundown. So we are going to move on to discussion action items. And we will start with the Luchini Report update. And we will start with the curriculum update.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Okay. So we're continuing to move forward with the coaching model. We're advertising for those positions for next year. We are, hoping to have two elementary, one middle school and,

[R15022-70] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - reads the two nonpublic roll calls a | 2023-04-13
PREV> Mike Koski: problem and everybody mimics it to get develop a new a numeracy or a math literacy with our students. Other than that, I think we're there's not much new. We're getting ready to, At our last meeting, unity. They showed student data about another month.
TEXT> Will collect our third round of student data to show growth over the course of the year. We're we've, I think, established that as a, as a culture. So now teachers know that it's going to occur every few months and it becomes visible as to how your students are doing. And so everybody's looking at their classroom data. And that's spurring some conversations about, well, why are you better than I am or what did you do different? So we're all starting to be able to see  what learning is occurring and respond to that. I think that's about it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So, I know back in my old days as a testing coordinator, we used to get together and look at the data with our data teams and such and, the

[R15022-71] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board member; Claremont School Board Vice Chair - the chair rest | 2023-04-13
PREV> Mike Koski: their classroom data. And that's spurring some conversations about, well, why are you better than I am or what did you do different? So we're all starting to be able to see what learning is occurring and respond to that. I think that's about it.
TEXT> So,  I know back in my old days as a testing coordinator, we used to get together and look at the data with our data teams and such and,  the what we call the thinking problems, as you describe, where students have to look at the information and they have to pull out what function they perform on that. I have not looked at an SAT test in a few years, I don't think since probably 19, 2017.  There's still probably some straightforward math problems on that. I think.
NEXT> Mike Koski: There is. They the the testing begins simple with. So for the math portion, can you do calculations different things, measure area, figure perimeter, all that kind of stuff they

[R15022-79] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board member; Claremont School Board Vice Chair - the chair rest | 2023-04-13
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah. Yeah. I'm not I'm not sure about SAT score.
TEXT> Yeah. Interesting because one I mean I, I get it about because we want to teach kids to be able to have critical thinking and all that and get it.  But we also, I don't think, want to lose sight of what they're going to be asked to do on the. Yeah.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. So the, the current state testing that's used it, it's, it's set up so that 90% of the information you need is there in the, in the text or

[R15028-46] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair 4/5/23; arrives after the | 2023-04-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: education. This is the meeting for you. If you want more information. Be a better informed voter. This is the meeting for you. So. May 25th, 630, the community center. I really think it's important for us all to learn as much as we can.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. Do I see any other citizens comments? We're going to close citizens comments. We're going to move next to the super  student representative report, and does not look like we have a student representative this evening. And next on the item list is the superintendent's report, the lawsuit update?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. So, Couldn't agree more with your your points. Both canvas and the we. I am testifying. I was scheduled to testify tomorrow. I just got word that that's delayed.

[R15028-49] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: to adopt a classroom for facilitating this, acquisition of funds to help our teachers and our schools succeed. So we're just giving a shout out to adopt a classroom. Next, we're going to move on to presentation by Principal Christopher Pratt from Stevens High School.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Thank you for having me here tonight. So public notes on the. Board had asked that. Some, some questions of myself to answer and provide to the public school board. Just so the public's aware. These are the questions that were provided and I'll be answering tonight.  So you can see the present, please provide a high level update of the restorative justice discipline system and connected this year. What are the greatest challenges that you've observed your students are facing in the school year, which have or may have interfered with their learning and achievement? And what would you ask for the board in terms of support? And what has students high school put in for extra supports and restructuring to improve behavior? Mental health at Stevens High School. What would you hold up as excess for this year and how can the board support you? So,  we'll jump right into it with the first question on restorative discipline and the overall accountability at the high school. So we we tried to put a lot of positive spins to the high school this year.  This is the sixth high school that I've been a part of. And I felt that this year a focus from the beginning of the school year, we really wanted to work on school climate, providing a safe and healthy environment for students and teachers for when they're there.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So we all decided that was what we were going to work on this year. And so one of the things we did is we incorporated the cognitive recognition cards.

[R15028-51] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: they want to give these cards. And so that was one way that we we tried to improve on acknowledging students for when they're doing something good. We also and that was all this is part of the restorative approach to to Stevens High School.
TEXT> We also had  in the process of setting up the the student panel,  and what this is here is that, as you can see down below there, that's just a a  file photo of what the circles look like. And what we want to do here is that, we're setting up these student panels where the students go and see after train. They go through the  low level incidences that might happen a lot, maybe a confrontation with the teacher, maybe it's,  disruption of class, not the higher things that the administrators will continue to see, but the low level things. And we want them to know how to talk through it, talk to each other like adults do in the real world, and learn from what they did. What could you have done differently, and getting them used to how to deal with conflict in a positive way, rather than always taking the next level and with more, more, more discipline. And because we want them to talk about in here, what would they do different? How did that make the other person feel? And you could do it with we did it with students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We've done it with teachers and students. So it's really just tying and educational component to when things happen at the school. We also started a Cardinal support team, and

[R15028-54] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: when the fall stops we'll be able to have these student panels. And this is just more on the, on the program and the Accountability Project. I'll show you in the next slide here. So what the Accountability Project is, is that. Get a little.
TEXT> Closer to see is here is we actually get an assignment. And it's the areas that are making a connection. Real world scenario. Best correlation with situation. What format we want the project in. It could be a PowerPoint, it could be a written assignment, and we go over to see what happened, the outcome, the central  outcome, who was affected, what they learned. And then, for instance, we had a student who said some stuff they shouldn't have. So they presented to their health class and presenting this to the health class as part of  repairing any harm that was done. In this case, it wasn't necessarily victim, but students may have heard what was said. So we wanted to make sure that he was presenting back to that health class and learning something along the way. Offending students will be guided by supported peers through reflection process to unpack the event. Restorative circles allow the sharing of personal experience and perspectives. Understanding the harm was done. And that's the most important thing. We want the students to understand what they did.  Because believe it or not, they could be in trouble. They don't really grasp the concept of how many people they may affect it in the process.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: A lot of times say who is affected? Well, just me and the other student. I was talking to you really. We're trying to dig deeper with them and saying,

[R15028-55] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: harm was done. And that's the most important thing. We want the students to understand what they did. Because believe it or not, they could be in trouble. They don't really grasp the concept of how many people they may affect it in the process.
TEXT> A lot of times say who is affected? Well, just me and the other student. I was talking to you really. We're trying to dig deeper with them and saying, well, it wasn't, you know, it was your teacher. It was every student in the class. It was the administrator that had to deal with the issue, parent to cut the phone call. It was trying to have them really understand, to the degree of what they did and how they're going to fix it. So this here is,  part of the cognitive recognition cards. We keep track of them every day. I get the cards and I put them in. And so what you have here is right now, the the ninth grade has the most out of five, 579. The ninth grade has the most recognition cards, you know, followed by the 12th grade and then the 10th and the 11th grade high. And that changes that just updated from this afternoon. So this is the we keep track of that to healthy competition. We do it by house, but we also break it up in grades because you know I seniors have come out of nowhere in the past week.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And they're they're moving up because I don't think they want to lose to the to the senior, the freshmen. So the kids that follow the teachers have fun with

[R15028-58] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: here inappropriate behavior in in language is the thing we deal with the most followed by class cuts. And I would say at this point class cuts. Is this a close second. And like I said, this is the sixth high school I've been at.
TEXT> And a lot of the problems that we see at Stevens High School, in my experience, wouldn't even show up in the radar at other high schools based on the level of behaviors.  You know, do we have our conflicts? Yeah, we have maybe 2 or 3 a year where I'm from in the past. That's a daily occurrence that's happening. So for someone new coming in. I can't understand why Stevens High School has the reputation. It does because the data doesn't show that. And we're there every day. You know, you have a lot of minor stuff going on that's keeping us busy. And we're still hold them accountable for it, but it doesn't reach the level of the reputation that you hear that Stevens High School has, the great kids, that staff are working hard. And so this is just to show how hot everyone's been working this year. So I drag this on data out of power school. And if you look the number of out of school days served last year, that means the total day students spent out of school was two 424. This year, the total days were 277, followed by the number of ice in school suspension day served last year was 178, this year was 46, and then the number of students who served OS last year 67 this year 33.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And then if you look at the last one year number of students served ES, we're only two less students. But that's not necessarily a bad thing because that's saying

[R15028-59] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Chris Pratt: school was two 424. This year, the total days were 277, followed by the number of ice in school suspension day served last year was 178, this year was 46, and then the number of students who served OS last year 67 this year 33.
TEXT> And then if you look at the last one year number of students served ES, we're only two less students. But that's not necessarily a bad thing because that's saying that we're dealing with the same amount of students. However, the days of in OSS and ES are down, so that just shows how had the students have been working and the teachers have been working together to change the climate of the school as something positive. So this is truancy, all these things that we look at, truancy out of school, suspension, these are things that contribute to dropout rate. So it's very positive to see that last year we had a 385 days of truancy. This year we had 269. So once again, the students and the teachers were all working together to improve all this stuff. And I know you have a login agenda. That's why I passed out this to everyone. But the rest of the stuff is just,  you know, what was the greatest challenge that you observed with students facing? And I think hands down, its associated emotional learning that that that's going on, that's interrupting with the education and the classrooms.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You know, students, even adults are coming with a lot of things already to school of work. And I think, you know, you know, and what would the, you know,

[R15028-67] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair — facilitates the ope | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Yes.
TEXT> Steve kind of take you back. So I think because it was a broad statement of how we can support. And I was going to ask to narrow it down a little bit.  It is there any specific professional development that you want us to look at? And, that's related to the prominent social and emotional needs that the students are facing?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, just the overall the approach of trauma informed instruction that we, that a lot of places are starting to use when you're dealing with a lot of students that

[R15028-68] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Steven Horsky: we can support. And I was going to ask to narrow it down a little bit. It is there any specific professional development that you want us to look at? And, that's related to the prominent social and emotional needs that the students are facing?
TEXT> Yeah, just the overall the approach of trauma informed instruction that we, that a lot of places are starting to use when you're dealing with a lot of students that have social, emotional,  issues that are coming into school. So it's very specific. It's trauma informed instruction.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Okay. And do you feel that with the budget going into next year that you have ample ability to get some training?

[R15028-75] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Just a quick question. And I could look up the handbook, but I don't have my computer. Define what a ninth grader is. Is that or 10th grader? Is it by credits or by years.
TEXT> That's a that's a gray area. I mean, I think right now you have kids who are in Aaron, 11th grade with ninth grade credit. You have kids in 12th grade with 11th grade credit. I think in today's schools, the grade isn't as important is where they like credit wise.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[R15028-82] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I just. Have a quick question. Where where are we at with recouping our Covid academic losses, in your opinion?
TEXT> Only being one year here. I mean, I'm seeing a lot of the same stuff I've seen in other places that I've been. And I think we're I think the problem is already there, but Covid just compounded them.  That's why, you know, and said, you know, what could we do? I think we really have to work on,  looking at the student soft skills, you know, accountability, holding them accountable,  getting the school on time because without those skills there,  I think more, more habits were created from Covid, not having those set schedules be to school at this time and get the class on this time. So so soft skills. I think we're still trying to find a way to to do that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Yes, and thank you for coming out this evening and giving up your free time.

[R15028-87] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Unidentified: You just wanted to shoot. That, but.
TEXT> Good evening. Thank you for having me, I appreciate it.  The one thing I just want to add to the question that you had for Chris and and how we're measuring, and what are we looking at with the gap that exists? I think for last year, and I think my presentation I'll talk a little bit about from last year to this year. So we spent a good deal amount of time of really just teaching students how to be human in shared spaces again, right. Coming back together. And for adults as well, everyone kind of brought different forms of trauma,  different experiences. And we spent the year really just trying to teach each other how to be human again. So, you know, I think from last year to this year, I have seen a lot of growth. And I'm going to talk a little bit about that. So just kind of. What you were talking about.  You have a packet which I had sent ahead of time. What's in there?  Is a look at our mission and vision.  It's a bullying intake form, a response to intervention. Re tears. And I think you also have in their on another item,  our our disciplinary. So, so you can kind of use that as, as part of a backdrop to what we're doing.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: On there just talks about the three goals we have. This is something that we do together as a school. We come together and kind of talk about what is

[R15028-90] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: this is the next step. And this is sort of that sort of top of the rung. This is a little more serious when we talk about a red team. We're talking about outside resources, TLC, Turning Points, network, truancy officer, SRO, anything like that.
TEXT> We could have West Central there. And this is sort of the behavioral plan that we're using isn't working. What else do we need to do? Does the family need extra resources that we don't have. What can we incorporate. And so this is the next year that we have why these are important. I mean I think self-explanatory of why they're important but just sort of following laws and updated,  what we need to do there. So it's kind of added that, so you get an understanding of why and what it's about. So here we have some behavioral data.  And I'm going to go over different parts of this. I think there's a lot more data to dive into without a doubt.  But I'm going to try and scratch the surface as best I can with what we have. Taking a look at the 2020 122 school year. It's self-explanatory. Going across in school suspensions es  for a number of students 65 last year out of 388. Excuse me. Served on a total number of 162 days out of school suspensions for that year. 45 students serving 262 days. Looking at this year.  And you can see a huge increase in those numbers in school suspensions 183 days total, 385 out of school suspensions.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And the reason I think that is very simply is the student centers that we have. I think we have more people to address more issues. Those of us that

[R15028-91] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: Served on a total number of 162 days out of school suspensions for that year. 45 students serving 262 days. Looking at this year. And you can see a huge increase in those numbers in school suspensions 183 days total, 385 out of school suspensions.
TEXT> And the reason I think that is very simply is the student centers that we have. I think we have more people to address more issues. Those of us that are parents and have worked with students, the tighter you make that screw, the tougher that resistance, right? And so they are learning the lines of what's happening. And I think this is a credit to our faculty and staff and the people that we have, that we are addressing everything that's coming our way. And these are the consequences, and this is a result of that. I see this as a positive,  I see this as us addressing the things that we need to. This is a look by grade, so I'll just leave that up there for a quick second. It takes a look at in-school suspensions by grade,  between the two years. And school is still going on, right? Yeah.  OS and again, looking at the numbers from last year to this year, you know, to point out last year it was myself and assistant principal and that was who was handling all behaviors, all discipline. This year we have a team.  And again I think that's reflected in these numbers.  I think this is worth mentioning as you look at those numbers and I'll break this down very simply.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Two students that we have in school each make up 14 days combined, ES or OS. Two students combined. Write each of them individually. 15 we have three students in

[R15028-92] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: principal and that was who was handling all behaviors, all discipline. This year we have a team. And again I think that's reflected in these numbers. I think this is worth mentioning as you look at those numbers and I'll break this down very simply.
TEXT> Two students that we have in school each make up 14 days combined, ES or OS. Two students combined. Write each of them individually. 15 we have three students in our building combined ES OSS of 30. That means those three students make up 90, 90, ES and OS days. So I think that says a lot as well. And some of the things that we're dealing with and how we're managing behaviors, some other information I just thought was important. Bullying investigations. You have the bullying intake form. The way that it works is any student or parent can initiate a bullying intake form. So in other words, a parent calls. I have concerns a student. I have concerns these forms go through our school counselors. The school counselors will take the intake. There is a form that you have in front of you. That form then will come to me. I will take a look at all intake forms and there we will make a decision. Does this seem like conflict resolution to work with the deans and the counselors, or is this something we need to investigate? Has this risen to an investigation of the 58 that are up there, 48 had to be investigated, which means ten were conflict resolutions.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Currently, we have ten open cases. Miss Oaks is working on that, and I just don't have the number because it's state reporting. And a lot goes into there are

[R15028-94] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: school, that could take up to 2 to 3 hours waiting for someone to come that needs to do an emergency intake, or we are discharging or asking them into West Central or to emergency at the E.R. and we work with parents on that.
TEXT> So that just kind of gives you an understanding of, of what the counselors, when we're having those numbers and how that sort of works through its system. We have what's called Saturday support.  This was something that we introduced,  and it was something that I had picked up. And  I love this. It is Saturdays 9 to 11. We serve food for kids.  We have some snacks. It's made up of an administrator, teachers, a counselor, if possible. It gives them individual attention. It gives them ability to work with small group instruction.  It's sort of tutoring, but it's more than that. They're making connections. We've had eight possible Saturdays since we started this. We started the second half of the year. 41 students have attended. Of those 41 student students, through our gradual discipline policy, only five were mandatory, which means 36 volunteered to come.  That means working through yellow team, the yellow team process with parents. When we come to that yellow team, this is an option. Do you want to take it? Yes. Or you know, what is it like? So I think that's a great number  and I  love to see that grow like that. That's definitely worth mentioning here.  Title nine I just put that in there because I think it's important to understand that title nine process. We have made five inquiries into title nine investigations.  Two when I made this slide were active. One more pending.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Title nine investigations can take up to 4 or 5 months. And so those are, those are investigations that take outside the purview of our school by a neutral party.

[R15028-96] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: This is a small number, but always something that we're talking about. Last year at this time, 85% of our students were present, to when we made this slide, 88%. So at least understanding and Chris mentioned about truancy always a problem, always a concern.
TEXT> That number  I'm would love to see more. But I think again worth mentioning of where we are out of district placements.  Always a topic, right?  Five last year, up to this point, up to this point. This year. Two. And I mentioned that because we have two out of district placements, and that's without having a special ed,  behavioral program in our school. And I believe if we did, at least one, possibly two would have not have gone out. And that's something that has to do with  and I understand that has to do with staffing. And Ben and I have talked about that and how to fix that. But I think that again, a number worth mentioning without having that specialized special ed discipline behavior program,  student centers are keeping kids in school. All right.  Council referrals. So this is a student asking to see a counselor. We have a Google form. Students can go on their computers and ask to see a counselor. So I want to see a counselor. This is what is. And it goes to the counselors. That number only reflects those that are asking to be seen. That is not counselors making appointments about scheduling, about conflict resolution, about lunch groups.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: That's students themselves advocating 125 days of school for 595 asks to see a counselor failing grades at this point, which a failing grade represents an RI and an F

[R15028-103] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Chico is a check in. Check out. You have that packet there.  The idea is checking students obviously in the morning. Check out before they go. Sort of a temperature check in the morning.  How are we going to start our day? What is it going to look like? What goals do we have for ourselves individually?  And then how do we accomplish that? And we have a cheat sheet. But what you have there, sort of the meaning behind it  and how we go about this is just the role of the academic. Dean and David came up and talked about it.  You know, you have that slide. It's it's a lot of things. Right.  And so I just wanted to highlight that the, the academic centers also have campus aids. The campus aid is sort of first responders,  to come in. And so sort of a highlight of some of the things that they do as well. You have that,  social. So how are we tackling some of the things that are happening?  One of the ways is that our counselors are piloting a program. We're starting with the sixth grade.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: It's an sell program. Miss Sarah Ferland, who is behind me, is teaching that, and it's talking about, self-awareness, self-management, social awareness. You can see we're piloting that with sixth

[R15028-104] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: highlight of some of the things that they do as well. You have that, social. So how are we tackling some of the things that are happening? One of the ways is that our counselors are piloting a program. We're starting with the sixth grade.
TEXT> It's an sell program.  Miss Sarah Ferland, who is behind me,  is teaching that, and it's talking about,  self-awareness, self-management, social awareness. You can see we're piloting that with sixth grade. We'd love to start next year with six and seventh grade and then embed it all the way. But  we have to take small steps. And so,  having the ability of the counselors that we do in the capacity with the student centers allows us to do this. Our schedule allows us to do this, and this is very much needed.  We also have partnered, as I talked about, with Turning Points Network. They come into our school during our enrichment block, spend an hour.  They started with seventh graders. They'll be moving on to sixth graders this year again piloting. And I just put sort of the curriculum in there. So you get an understanding of the things that they are addressing.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: All right.

[R15028-107] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: flexible. We do not use subs in our building, meaning that we do not pay for subs. We sub for each other. I sell counselors, sub teachers sub for each other. Our schedule allows it, and there are so many things that come with that.
TEXT> But any time that I need a sub, I send an email and I have more than enough help. We do that each morning and  obviously it saves money. What I really like is the students. We're not bringing in somebody from outside. The students know what the expectations are from. Each teacher and teachers get to make connections at different grade levels and different subjects. So I think subbing for each other not only show support, but  it shows a great deal  of unity with students as well.  Our PLCs that we're allowed to do with our schedule enrichment. Our teachers do duty like so many of the other right teachers in the district.  They do all do lunch duty. They do bus duty, Am and PM,  and allows for our testing. Proud of the academic centers.  As I talked about our counselors, social worker, I. What more can I say?  About them and  my colleagues. And that's just not the people behind me, but it's in the other buildings,  the other principals and people. It is a tough lift, and it is a tough job.  But I drive every day because of the people behind me in the evening circle. And it's worth mentioning what I need. This. This took.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Me a while to go through because there's so much that we need. We also have a lot. So I just highlighted a few things, that are here. The first

[R15028-110] Alex Hill | Computer teacher, Claremont Middle School; Claremont resident | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah, please.
TEXT> Hello. I'm  the computer. Teacher at the middle school. My name is Alex.  Alex Hill.  I live in town, and I  deliberately chose to buy a house in the place where I work.  I know that is not always a norm for a lot of my coworkers.  Not just at our school, but elsewhere. It's kind of  like one of those unspoken rules. Like, you don't live where you teach, so you don't have to deal with it. But I think it's really important to live where I teach because I have skinned the game. These are not only my students, but these are my neighbors, and these are my my future neighbors. And it matters a lot. I've heard my coworkers talk about, you know, like being confronted in really unkind ways and, like, the supermarket and they live in town to. And I think it's important that our teachers feel like we can live in the town and be safe in the town. And,  yeah. So just that sort of like safety and support would be lovely. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you, thank you.

[R15028-128] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair 4/5/23; arrives after the | 2023-04-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: we're looking for are highlighted. Sort of it doesn't necessarily have to be a teacher. Because as we see that there are so many people within our building that are not specific classroom teachers that are supporting the program and the welfare of our students.
TEXT> And just one more question about trying to differentiate between the student support centers and the academic.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Same thing there. Interchangeable. Correct.

[R15028-131] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: And so when you just clarify when you say access, accessing, is that most of these kids are coming on their own, correct. Or are they being directed by.
TEXT> So. So the way that it works, they have their own they actually have their own classroom. Each center is their own classroom. Students can access on their own. They could have access through one of the yellow team in the process. So it might be okay. What we have for you is we know this is a struggle, so why don't we have you access a student center during this time? And so they can self-advocacy. Parents can ask for it. Yep. And a lot of students do. And I will say this and I didn't mention our schedule allows that every single one of our teachers spends one block a day in an academic center. So when a student comes in there, they are actually not only being met by the dean and the campus aid, but a certified teacher. And so when we have struggles that are happening, we could specifically line up students from that certain discipline with a teacher that has that prep. And so they're spending that time in there.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: All right. Great. Thank you very much, Steve.

[R15028-133] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair — facilitates the ope | 2023-04-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right. Great. Thank you very much, Steve.
TEXT> So I just wanted to go back to the behavioral data for this year  just to make sure I understand this correctly. So I see two students at 14 days, two at 15 and then three at 30. And that's a combination of both in school and out of school. Correct. Now is it for three students accounting for a total IT. My understanding was it's 90 days. So that's.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: One student 30 days.

[R15028-134] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-04-19
PREV> Steven Horsky: two students at 14 days, two at 15 and then three at 30. And that's a combination of both in school and out of school. Correct. Now is it for three students accounting for a total IT. My understanding was it's 90 days. So that's.
TEXT> One student 30 days.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yep.

[R15028-190] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: We did. We did it. We launched a book.
TEXT> Giveaway, a book giveaway. So she was able to find funding to be able to fill brown paper bags with books that kids got to tear open. And so that just furthers the love for of reading for students. You know, if you want to open a present, that's a bunch of books, like, you really got to love reading, right? But multiple different initiatives take place in the buildings. We don't have a district initiative, so that's something we can look forward to doing next year. We had to get the high quality materials and also the professional development for teachers as well. So that's going now.  So hopefully we can get that going for next year.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: As a. Graduate of what character Day programs? In my own elementary schools, I would like to advocate for a book Character Day program as our literacy initiative, because it

[R15058-9] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Sullivan District 8; House Education Committe | 2023-05-03
PREV> Hope Damon: And I'm being very direct. And this is a there are two different points of view on this bill. There is no one who doesn't support parental rights and want parents to integrate with schools and work collaboratively and together, as does often happen already.
TEXT> This bill isn't going to make that happen more. What it does do is require that school staff who receive a confidence from a student, will need to divulge that to the parents, whether they think that the child or teen is ready for that information to be shared or not. It's not getting voted on on it came out of committee. I should back up. No recommendation meaning we were tie vote.  It's not being voted on the House floor tomorrow. So the first time that it would be voted is next Thursday. And that's,  SB 272. And I thank you all for your time and your work.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to speak on a non agenda item? Seeing no one else we're going to close citizens comments. Unfortunately Hannah

[R15058-10] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — presides; addressed as 'Madam Chair' an | 2023-05-03
PREV> Hope Damon: back up. No recommendation meaning we were tie vote. It's not being voted on the House floor tomorrow. So the first time that it would be voted is next Thursday. And that's, SB 272. And I thank you all for your time and your work.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to speak on a non agenda item? Seeing no one else we're going to close citizens comments. Unfortunately Hannah Patron is unavailable to come this evening. So we are not going to have a student representative report. Hopefully she'll be able to attend next meeting. And we're moving on to the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the what I have to report is just an update on the business administrator search. So far, there have been three initial interviews of candidates.

[R15058-27] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — presents the American Sign Language p | 2023-05-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: in ASL, and additionally, offering these classes would allow students to earn high school credit for each level of the ASL. Completed a running start class. Adding a running start a ASL class would allow students to earn college credit while still in high school.
TEXT> This can save students time and money when they eventually attend college. Students who complete the running start just like all the others we have. Class could be better prepared to pursue higher education in fields related to American Sign Language, such as interpreting or deaf education, offering a comprehensive ASL education, including levels one and two and a running start, would better prepare students for careers and fields related not just to ASL, but other areas that they would be pursuing. Students who complete the classes could better be equipped to pursue these careers as interpreters, teachers of the deaf, or other professionals that require knowledge of ASL inclusivity. Providing a more comprehensive ASL class at Stevens High School will promote inclusivity to create environments where every student can feel welcome and valued. Students who complete these classes will be better equipped to communicate with members of the deaf community, and can also help break down barriers and promote understanding. Adding this class would provide students with a more comprehensive education, better preparing them for college and career opportunities. Promote inclusivity in creating more diverse and welcoming school environment. The course description, competencies and the overview of topics covered for each of these classes have been provided for your review. Thank you for your time and consideration. Questions.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Full credit. Half credit.

[R15058-33] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — presents the American Sign Language p | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: But they put the requests in. Yes. And nobody has requested ASL.
TEXT> Right now. If it was to be off, we have 88 students who would be interested in signing up.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: For it, but interest it isn't enrolled.

[R15058-36] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: Well, I mean, no, it's not enrolled, but we can't enroll them in a class that hasn't been approved.
TEXT> Right. So just doing some math,  based on having done a few high school schedules myself, we always felt that the the nominal level for a course to run would be ten students in a course. And so that would be for this course to nominally run.  Each section would have to have each,  each  the would have to be 60 kids for the year. Right? Six one the teacher would be teaching six one credit courses. Yeah. So there would be 60 kids in it to be nominally,  viable.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Correct.

[R15058-38] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: Correct.
TEXT> So I  personally I would, I would like to see this and it's going to be very expensive to do this. And looking at the teachers,  employment history, they're going to come in at the top of the scale.  So they're going to be around 60 plus benefits. So it's going to be 110 one or more to put this position in. So I in view of the fact that and again, I don't even know where the money is coming from for this.  So in view of the fact that from my perspective,  Don't get me wrong, I think this is a great idea, but I don't think it's a full time position right now. And,  I would be amazed if we could get more than 60 kids into this, into this  course. Do I like the idea of the running start? Absolutely. And the fact that kids could take ASL. Absolutely. But I don't see I don't see it as a full time position in its first year. I just don't.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The reason I'm offering is a full time position, because right now, going into next year, the only language that we have at the high school is Spanish. So right

[R15058-39] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — presents the American Sign Language p | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: kids into this, into this course. Do I like the idea of the running start? Absolutely. And the fact that kids could take ASL. Absolutely. But I don't see I don't see it as a full time position in its first year. I just don't.
TEXT> The reason I'm offering is a full time position, because right now, going into next year, the only language that we have at the high school is Spanish. So right now we're we're we're no longer have French or German. So if you look at the amount of students who take to foreign language classes were taken away two languages and that in just one more. So hypothetically, based on everything we're talking about, we would have the numbers for a full time, for a full time ASL position.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So French was in the program of studies, was it not know. Was not taken. Out in German was. No. That was taken out of.

[R15058-41] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — presides; addressed as 'Madam Chair' an | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: So French was in the program of studies, was it not know. Was not taken. Out in German was. No. That was taken out of.
TEXT> So to that point, it's it's my understanding that for a student to earn a diploma, which would allow them to go to a four year institution, they would have to have two years of a language. Correct. And I think technically, according to Ed 306, we need to offer to languages. And American Sign Language is one that is accepted. So if we if we can make the assumption that we have to push students that want to attend a four year university into another language, we won't have enough. We won't have enough educators in Spanish to be able to provide. Right that access.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Go into next year, we'll have two Spanish teachers.

[R15058-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2023-05-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: You'll have two Spanish teachers. Okay.
TEXT> Right. Right now there's 250 kids signed up for Spanish. I don't know exactly where. You know, you are in process with, with getting all of the tallies in or obviously they haven't had the chance to refer. So  and those are pretty full sections. So if, if it does net those numbers.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What are the levels. Are they one, two, three and four?

[R15058-46] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: What are the levels. Are they one, two, three and four?
TEXT> Yeah. So what I liked about this,  I like everything about it. Not only is the person known who I think would be a pied piper, who who has also,  kids have have solicited his assistance in taking the course at the college already. So I think he he will draw oftentimes having, you know, 15 years high school experience as principal. There's that can be everything. You know, I was talking about this with another superintendent earlier in the day. And,  and, you know, I think I think it's definitely worth doing the,  overwhelming.  In the past, since I've been here, there was a  movement to,  slowly take French offline. Anyway,  about principal Barry  started and,  and basically there was double the amount of interest in Spanish than the, other than the other two combined. So I don't think,  in for years, some of the other enrollments have been 60, 60 or 50 or 70 for the, for both French and for for German. So I think it's the same ballpark, maybe out of the gate, I don't know. So I think it's worth a shot.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I'm wondering if offering ASL would encourage more students to sign up for a language, because there are students who struggle learning a second language, and this is a very

[R15058-47] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: years, some of the other enrollments have been 60, 60 or 50 or 70 for the, for both French and for for German. So I think it's the same ballpark, maybe out of the gate, I don't know. So I think it's worth a shot.
TEXT> I'm wondering if offering ASL  would encourage more students to sign up for a language, because there are students who struggle learning a second language, and this is a very different opportunity. So perhaps  maybe more students would even sign up for a language because it's different.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It opens the door for students who are visual learners. Yes. And there's they don't just not students on IEPs and life ed, it's in general, we're tapping into another

[R15058-51] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Policy Subcommittee chair | 2023-05-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, there's there's three budgeted language teachers.
TEXT> Brittany I'm in favor of this proposal. And  I'm really glad that you're proposing to add ASL as of course, as Stevens High School.  My one question is who is going to perform as the ASL interpreter for a student at Stevens? If the this person is currently serving in that role, the person, the proposed teacher.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Well, he he would still be available to do it. I mean he that would be part of it. And we we we spoke about, you know, things like this

[R15058-52] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — presents the American Sign Language p | 2023-05-03
PREV> Whitney Skillen: you're proposing to add ASL as of course, as Stevens High School. My one question is who is going to perform as the ASL interpreter for a student at Stevens? If the this person is currently serving in that role, the person, the proposed teacher.
TEXT> Well, he he would still be available to do it. I mean he that would be part of it. And we we we spoke about, you know, things like this come up in conversations as that as the as the classes go on. Students could actually be doing it. Okay. We already have quite a few,  upperclassmen who take the class of the community college. And so  it would be, you know, that would be probably part of the hands on learning would be  to be interpreting during house meetings, graduations and stuff like that, where students would take a bigger role in that.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: But this wouldn't disrupt that. Students, I don't know, access to in classroom ASL interpretation.

[R15058-53] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Policy Subcommittee chair | 2023-05-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: the class of the community college. And so it would be, you know, that would be probably part of the hands on learning would be to be interpreting during house meetings, graduations and stuff like that, where students would take a bigger role in that.
TEXT> But this wouldn't disrupt that. Students, I don't know, access to in classroom ASL interpretation.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: No, because the current student we have now is graduating. Oh. So, you know, yeah, he'd be graduating, so it wouldn't interfere with any current students that we have. Perfect.

[R15058-54] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School — presents the American Sign Language p | 2023-05-03
PREV> Whitney Skillen: But this wouldn't disrupt that. Students, I don't know, access to in classroom ASL interpretation.
TEXT> No, because the current student we have now is graduating. Oh. So, you know, yeah, he'd be graduating, so it wouldn't interfere with any current students that we have. Perfect. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there a motion to approve this?

[R15058-77] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: director, this is a record high for Claremont at 26%. There's a historical average of 23 to 25% identification rate in the district. I was able to pull some of our neighbors. One of the other statistics that came in late is the Franklin statistic.
TEXT> This was not in your original presentation. I heard from her yesterday. Franklin is unbelievably at 36% of rate.  Newport 27, Claremont at 26,  unity 24, fall mountain 22. And then Kearsarge appear very, very similarly matched at around 60% or less in terms of  number of disabled students in the district. Also, just as a side note, some of the items that are presented in the first part of the presentation directly answer the questions, and then some of the questions didn't lend themselves to a slide in there in the back. And we can certainly review if, you know, whatever your pleasure is. Heather.  So this is a quick picture of what our disability spread looks like. The the most common disability is a specific learning disability in our district, with other with developmental delay and then other health impairment coming in at second and third. And then there's other very less common, you know, less common disabilities that we see. We have one student that is visually impaired in the district. We have two students that have a traumatic brain injury and receive services because of that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Could you. Yeah, I play those for the each.

[R15058-88] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> Yeah. Related service providers. These are our speech.  Ot  and school psychologists and a few, you know, lower incident providers.  In 2018 when I came on, we had we had a what I believe to be a bloated number of related service providers. And then over the years, systematically, we've whittled that down by six positions. Five of those were speech positions, and one of those was an autism specialist last year that  that was riffed. And so now we're at 19 related service providers. This doesn't include the the low incident providers like the one child that's blind. We have a teacher of visually impaired that consults is not added there because that's only a consulting  position. It's not a full time position. And then you can see in your appendix, I lay out in a spreadsheet, you can see who the who the providers are in their Prudential's hiring trends was a question that came up. Interestingly, I see things as remaining fairly static. Over the last five years, it has been a bit more challenging to find staff in the last two years post Covid, but we've we've typically see a turnover rate of about 30% in Claremont. And that's pretty pretty, pretty static since I've been here from 1819 on.
NEXT> Ben Nester: One of the things to mention anecdotally, from my perspective, the prime driver for turnover is the exigent demands of the student population. It's the students are tough to work

[R15058-96] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Oh. Can you explain what eligibility oversight actually looks like and what that means?
TEXT> Yeah. So going back to this item here. So one of the one of the questions that anyone would raise when they see a district with 20, 26% or students as identified is are we over a are we. Students as having an educational disability when they should not be identified as such? That's that's what we mean by, eligibility oversight.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So just to that point, that was actually a question that was kind of being generated is who makes the determination on a lot of these diagnosis? Or is it

[R15058-112] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah. What? What is the Summer Para Academy like? What does it look like? What are the outcomes and the goals for the Paras? Like, what's the point of their training?
TEXT> It's not fully fleshed out yet. I'm working with the consultant to, to do that. The. The, the few things that I did put in the survey, it was going to be, you know, the relationship between the teacher and the para, because that's crucial. And then also, we want to offer somewhat of a one on one level training to all of our parents around, you know, disabilities and students, students disabilities and strategies when working with those students. I mean, we we we see a lot of our parents come in from food service industry and, and other positions like that with, with no experience. And so it's going to be it's going to be tailored to those that attend to. Because you may have some people with no experience in some with quite a bit. So that's that's what we're trying to work through. Still.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Arlene.

[R15058-114] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Arlene.
TEXT> Are the parents that we currently have. I based as one on One Paris or are there opportunities for them to work with students who are having less difficulties? So the teacher who's the most qualified educator can work with those students most at risk? Do we have that option?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, we have right now. If you were to look at an IEP and there's Paris services written into it, it would be written generally in one of two ways

[R15058-115] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: currently have. I based as one on One Paris or are there opportunities for them to work with students who are having less difficulties? So the teacher who's the most qualified educator can work with those students most at risk? Do we have that option?
TEXT> Yeah, we have right now. If you were to look at an IEP and there's Paris services written into it, it would be written generally in one of two ways as a one on one, you know, one on one with that child or in a shared capacity. So that would be a para that would be there to service 4 or 5 students in the classroom that may have shared pair support written into the IEP.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Are they only working with the identified students or are they more flexible within that classroom?

[R15058-116] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: one on one, you know, one on one with that child or in a shared capacity. So that would be a para that would be there to service 4 or 5 students in the classroom that may have shared pair support written into the IEP.
TEXT> Are they only working with the identified students or  are they more flexible within that classroom?
NEXT> Mike Koski: They're flexible.

[R15058-118] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Mike Koski: They're flexible.
TEXT> You know, I mean, they have to be I think that the teacher is going to utilize them,  you know, as, as they're needed. And if a particular child doesn't need support, you know, they they better be working with other people. Okay. Let's say it like that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Thank you. Yeah.

[R15058-131] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Right. But I'm talking about beyond their pay being paid for the time there is. Okay. And that last bullet and celery salary schedule. Strata. Yeah. Is that what you're. Is that what this is referring to?
TEXT> Oh. So this this is. Another one that Mike. And I have talked about quite a bit and. And is common in many districts is that there is a delineation on the salary schedule between pairs that are general special education pairs or supporting kids in the classroom in pairs that are doing diapering or feeding tubes or restraining children that need physical restraint. You know, we looked at Kearsarge as  set up. We've looked at Fall Mountain and many others, and this is something that we're supportive of. And again, this would be negotiating with the union. But there is a delineation between the the workload that one pair has and maybe another. And there should be a salary difference as well.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Do we currently have a salary differentiation between Paris power ones, power tubes or anything that I don't understand.

[R15058-135] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So it's just it's correct. Thank you. Yeah.
TEXT> So that's again that's something we're supportive of. And I know that our paraprofessionals are asking for that as well. One other thing I mentioned earlier that we do have the ability to change in regard to, you know, the overriding of students is,  you know, creating more oversight and supervision at the, at the building level. And. This is just this is truly just a consideration that I put in here.  I think it's worth mentioning that our current special education oversight structure is not typical for Claremont or not typical for New Hampshire or New England schools. What you see in a typical model is a special ed director and then a building special ed coordinator at each level. So you'd have a high school special ed coordinator, a middle school, and then a, in our case, a special ed coordinator that could serve and float between the three elementary schools. And that allows me to have increased control, if you will, over some of the decisions that are being made at the at the,  at the, at the building level,  I see Chris nodding. This is a very common structure. And we've  you know, had we used to have a middle school special ed coordinator, but then when that person retired, we  did not refill that position just in an effort to reduce the budget. So that's something for us to consider moving forward. And that's why I put it on there. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We have that at the high school. We converted one of the A piece to to that.

[R15058-140] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So then are you saying you would want that to be an administrator like an assistant principal. So they have the evaluative opportunities.
TEXT> Yeah, that's that's standard practice. Yeah. I'm sorry. It's your standard practice to do that. Yeah, yeah. And that's. That's for. That's for another budget cycle perhaps. Questions?  I don't know if at this point it makes sense to, to take questions or other thoughts. I Heather, I want to get back to your question about I'll jump in on that now and then. And then if there's questions that everyone has or folks have about my responses, we can jump into that as well. So, Heather, you were asking about how how a child is determined to be eligible for special education. So like, like everything in special ed, it's all driven by federal law, interpreted by the state  and very scripted. So in New Hampshire, we have a we have a book called The Standards for the Education of Children with disabilities. And this is the law that we we follow around  supporting these students. And so I put a couple of examples in here. So this is a emotional disturbance. Eligibility form. And this is a form that you'll find in any district different you know format looks different. But it's the same. The law  the federal and state law is provided a above. And then there is a decision making process that the team walks through when they're determining eligibility.  In regard to who determines eligibility, it is what the attorneys refer to as the  the all powerful IEP team is the language in the law.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So there's not one individual that determines eligibility. It is the IEP team. And the IEP team legally has to constitute the Lea, which is typically an administrator, a regular

[R15058-141] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: a above. And then there is a decision making process that the team walks through when they're determining eligibility. In regard to who determines eligibility, it is what the attorneys refer to as the the all powerful IEP team is the language in the law.
TEXT> So there's not one individual that determines eligibility. It is the IEP team. And the IEP team  legally has to constitute the Lea, which is typically an administrator, a regular education teacher, the parent and a special education teacher. And then related service providers. So. When you're looking at eligibility, your value, your evaluators have evaluated a child. They've generated a a comprehensive report in the area that they are expert in. And then they present that report to the IEP team at at an eligibility meeting.  The report, each of their reports will include a recommendation around does the child is it recommended that the child receive services in that area of need. So the school psychologist is president at all of these meetings as well, and is generally the one that walks the team through the decision making process. So not. To go into. Great detail, and I don't want to spend. Too much time on. This. But,  the the first question that the team will answer in this particular instance as the student been found by a qualified examiner, and this would be a school. Psychologist by law.
NEXT> Ben Nester: To have a condition with constitutes emotional disturbance. And so the school psychologist in this case would have conducted an eye and IQ test. They would have conducted several types

[R15058-143] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: the child's educational performance, they do not have an educational disability. There is a distinction between an educational disability and a disability as defined by the DSM. As an example, those are two very different things. So a child, the process may stop right there.
TEXT> The other question, which is another prong of eligibility, is if the child does have an emotional disturbance, does the child need special education? Sometimes the answer is no. Often it is. If it gets to this point, the answer is yes. And so then ultimately when you get to the end of your eligibility form, you that yes or no, the child is eligible to receive special education services and then an IEP is drafted following that. Did Madam Chair did that get it all your sorry.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Couple more questions but quick.

[R15058-146] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: some samples, obviously. Redacted samples, but how the scoring is done. Yeah. Because I think the board would, because from my experience, it really isn't black and white. It's pretty. It can there's all kinds of shades of scoring in these from my experience. Yeah.
TEXT> You're right, probably small percent to a small degree. I would agree with you that there's a there's a few cases where there is really a gray area, but by and large, you know, when a when a school psychologist or a speech and language pathologist completes an assessment, it's done. Normed population of 10,000, 20,000 students, you get an age range in, you know, a range of of score. And then there's a, you know, a statistical analysis around what is the, you know, the confidence interval around that score. So if you get a score of 100, you know, you could there could be a conference confidence interval of like 95 to 105, you know, explaining that. But yeah.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Jennifer just more of a comment. Not really a question, but this is just mostly for determining if a student is eligible for an IEP, right? Correct. Because if if

[R15058-147] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23 to the one-year seat; C | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: a statistical analysis around what is the, you know, the confidence interval around that score. So if you get a score of 100, you know, you could there could be a conference confidence interval of like 95 to 105, you know, explaining that. But yeah.
TEXT> Jennifer just  more of a comment. Not really a question, but this is just mostly for determining if a student is eligible for an IEP, right? Correct. Because if if they don't meet the IEP criteria, they may still qualify for a 500 for accommodation. Sure. Right. Yeah.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Thank you.

[R15058-152] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: And like, you see what underwear.
TEXT> Yeah. Right.  Under the educational achievement, are we now including or are we going to be including? You know what I'm going to ask? The benchmark results of assessments for students that truly indicate what they're doing, what the where they're falling down, where their gaps are, what strategies have been put in place prior to getting to this point, which I know is part of the MTS.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. And that that data all gets folded into trying to needs and would and then leads to the next intervention. And so those tier two and tier three interventions

[R15058-156] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah. And so we'll have more information to better assess what the student's situation is. Thank you.
TEXT> I mean, a point on that is that if you're a. If you're a school. Based team, right, a student support team that is looking at students that are at risk in the school, and you do the MTS process with fidelity. If that school based team makes the decision to refer to special education and it's done properly, there's a high likelihood that the child would be eligible at that point. We don't we don't see that across the board at this point. We see sometimes students getting referred and and then they're determined ineligible because they don't have a disability. And then they're, you know, they're discharged. So we have a better process. It'll.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So do you think that's more professional development that's needed?

[R15058-172] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Not very often since I've been here. Yeah.
TEXT> Because from my experience,  their main motivation is cost shifting. Yeah. They want to shift the cost over to the district instead of through the through, DHHS. Yeah. So that's that's been my experience there. Do you have any stats on lead poisoning? You mentioned it. Do we know how many kids actually are affected by that?
NEXT> Ben Nester: I don't. Does anyone from the community have any?

[R15058-177] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Oh. I'm sorry. Here we go. Gotcha. Can you say that again, Frank? Sorry.
TEXT> It said page nine. It says 37 kids are out of district. Yeah, but if I go to the elementary page, I think it says 1 or 2. So.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, there's only one. One elementary, kiddo. Out place.

[R15058-179] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah, there's only one. One elementary, kiddo. Out place.
TEXT> 36 middle high school kids out.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah.

[R15058-181] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah.
TEXT> And so?  So 35 of those are high school kids.
NEXT> Ben Nester: No, I think what Frank Romeo was saying was, the number of students that had been placed out this year or over a certain period of time. Okay. Yeah, there

[R15058-182] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: And so? So 35 of those are high school kids.
TEXT> No, I think what Frank Romeo was saying was,  the number of students that had been placed out this year or over a certain period of time. Okay. Yeah, there were, there were.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Chris is gone. How many are each? Would you guess?

[R15058-189] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; retired school administrator | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: I'm just curious.
TEXT> Yeah. So one actually a couple more  title, one role. We talked about classroom teachers. We talked about special ed and we have 9 or 10 title one people in the elementary schools. I wonder what they do. And I know that's not your purview, but it would be nice to know at some point. How did they fit into the overall intervention, the tiered system? Yeah. So in looking at the stats for schools with special ed, I notice that Disney has 15.6 and  which is way less than everybody else. Yeah. And so so my takeaway and I'm going to support what Mike said a minute ago is that it really makes a big difference, around what's going on in the building. And I don't mean this. We have our most experienced principal there, and I worked with Melissa. I know, I know what how she conducts business. And it's no offense to other people that new they're finding their feet. But I think that when there's high expectations, when there's supervision, when there's somebody really paying attention to what's going on and,  I think that this is the type of result that you see. And I think that that's really a probably one of the most significant statistics that we had in this whole presentation is, is the special ed rate at this Naht. I noticed that 60% of early childhood kids are special ed. Yeah. How many kids is that? Oh.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I don't know exactly where we're at. 68, 70 I think last I looked, but right now we're we're over in terms of a rate, we should be at 50%.

[R15058-199] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: It is. It's a good point. It's a good point.
TEXT> For my clarification. When you say 60 children are early receiving in early childhood services. Are you talking about the pre-K?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[R15058-206] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23; retired elementary pri | 2023-05-03
PREV> Ben Nester: Arlene, as a new board member, the current model on file with the state is an early childhood model, which requires 50% of the students be typically developing in 50%. So we're a little inflated in regards to the special ed students in the program.
TEXT> Right. And that's important for,  role models for, for early childhood students who need to see like peers who are something they can look at and model. Sure. My other question to dovetail to your desired percentage, how many? Self-contained, for lack of a better way of saying it, programs are at Disney versus Fluff and Maple.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Great. Great question. Zero. So the the numbers are a little bit inflated at bluff and maple if you look. So Arlene, you asked this question about our self-contained programs.

[R15058-220] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23 to the one-year seat; C | 2023-05-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. I just didn't know why they were because those are district programs. Yes, I come in.
TEXT> Right. So if. This. If a student,  isn't in like maples district, but their student requires the program, they go to Maple this way. Okay.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah. What's. So while we're on this, we have two types of life. Self-contained programs in the district. Students that are life skills. These are students that are likely

[R15058-225] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23 to the one-year seat; C | 2023-05-03
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> One more question. Sorry.  There any kind of, like, peer support groups for parents of students with special needs in the district?
NEXT> Ben Nester: At Mr. Tempesta direction, we started a parent advisory council in 1920, and we got parents that wanted. What's that.

[R15058-243] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — also calls the roll (district c | 2023-05-03
PREV> Hope Damon: Like that. They some do stay in this work.
TEXT> Absolutely. And and what's interesting about that is the districts that pay more tend to have less challenging students. So there's this very interesting dynamic there. You get paid more to work with students that are easier to work. With.
NEXT> Hope Damon: Different inputs. Yeah. Thank you very much. I have spoken word.

[R15123-7] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - attending by Zoom (ASR 'Mister Timbuktu') | 2023-06-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: attached Smart goals, and we also have some changes to the 2324 school year calendar, which is under exhibit A. Is there any questions that anybody has regarding the school year calendar changes? It's my understanding that it was an addition of some half days.
TEXT> Yes. So the first day of school will be a half day, which would allow for kindergarten, open house for parents to come and meet teachers with their students. And then the last day of school would be a half day.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any discussion or concerns related to that? See? Yes. Can I just ask, what are the hours for the parent teacher conference day? On November 9th?

[R15123-79] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Stephanie: have what they need to be able to execute the plan? And so that's probably to me the most important piece and letters is a huge component of that. We've also sent some teachers to the writing Revolution and 95% group for our intervention teachers.
TEXT> And I've heard wonderful, wonderful things about all three of those. And our administrators. I participated with our principles to take letters for admin, so that was really nice as well. So  I  like this quote here. I think Claremont is on its way to  I think the the component of the curriculum framework was the piece that was missing. But when placed into schools with effective principals, strong curricula, and well supported teachers, virtually all students can learn to read as well as the most advantaged students, and I've been a part of that in other states. I've been part of, you know,  schools where students are, you know, 90% English as a second language and they're thriving. They're a schools, you know, they're all free and reduced lunch. They don't come from a background where anyone can help them at home, yet they are proficient readers. Claremont can be proficient in reading. We can be proficient in math. We can be proficient in all the content areas. We just have to have a good framework similar to what she's talking about with the  Mary correct? Is talking about what? The business plan. We have to have something that is straightforward and about the business, and that's what we have to do for education to. So and if you don't know Doctor Louise and  you need to check her out, she's  part of the letters movement and the science of reading.
NEXT> Stephanie: It'd be very good reading for you. So I'll open it up to any questions that you may have about your 63 page document that was sent over.

[R15123-93] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Stephanie: The efficient follow the rules. That's me.
TEXT> And two other things is I wonder if there's anywhere in this curriculum for,  the gifted and talented students, because I know that we are required by state law to provide programing for gifted and talented. And also,  if there's anything that includes,  Holocaust studies, I know that we have to  sustain New Hampshire as mandated, that we have to provide that as well.
NEXT> Stephanie: So the wit and wisdom materials that we purchased for K-5, there's multiple entry points. And what they've put together for six through 12 also has multiple entry points. So

[R15123-99] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Stephanie: I don't I don't want to say this the wrong way, but we have to do more to prepare them for what they need to do. And that's what we've done this year. And we've spent a really valiant effort putting all of this together.
TEXT> And I don't know if you were able to look at the curriculum maps. That's really  for teachers. I mean, what you look at with the standards, we all know that. We know the standards backwards and forwards. You can put them on paper and that's no big thing to us. That's just, you know, another everyday occurrence like taking attendance for us. But when you look at the curriculum map that's, you know, in kindergarten, that's for different programs, a teacher is going to have to look through four different teachers guides multiple times a year because there's one for module one, there's one for module two. That's a lot of reading and a lot of siphoning through. So our hope as an advisory board was the turnover that we have here in Claremont. While we're working to fix that and to bring teachers and keep teachers in Claremont, we have to have something for our teachers that are veteran teachers that are working here year after year, that are training a teacher. Every year there's someone new coming in. That curriculum framework is something that they can give to a first year teacher, and if she follows nothing else, if she changes nothing from that framework, those students are going to be successful.
NEXT> Stephanie: But the teacher that's been here for ten years, she can pick that up. She can have the teacher autonomy to add in some extra word play, to add in

[R15123-110] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Mr. Kosky') | 2023-06-07
PREV> Mike Koski: a state average of 50. Middle school a little higher. As we get into this upper grades, I'm going to predict that we see these two flip. I think our early grades, as we implement this science of reading, I'm going to be much higher.
TEXT> And the middle school and older grades are going to be harder to move and show improvement in, but our early grades are going to jump quite significantly in the next few years.  So middle school, we're at 40% proficient in L.A. Math scores.  Similar story except,  a reverse trend. So as the grades go up, the proficiency tends to drop. We score better early in math, and then  we have more students having more difficulty as we we move along that scale. Again. The groups the same group of students are improving year by year. But we're not  we're we're losing ground to the state trend. And so we need to see those gains increase in in size. But every year, those students have improved their scores as they move from one grade to the next. We just need to see those gains increase and get larger. Overall. Here's our elementary math. We're 30%, not quite 30% for proficiency overall. Elementary school, middle school  math drops. So we have that kind of reverse trend. Whereas grades increase, the  proficiency scores are dropping from early elementary through to middle school and  SATs math and E-R. W is English reading writing. Here are 22 Math and English  SAT scores. State average for New Hampshire is 492.
NEXT> Mike Koski: English 511. Math is blue, Ela or English writing is red. So we are below those state averages. Our scores dropped a little bit this year compared to last year's

[R15123-111] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Mr. Kosky') | 2023-06-07
PREV> Mike Koski: that kind of reverse trend. Whereas grades increase, the proficiency scores are dropping from early elementary through to middle school and SATs math and E-R. W is English reading writing. Here are 22 Math and English SAT scores. State average for New Hampshire is 492.
TEXT> English 511. Math is blue, Ela or English writing is red. So we are below those state averages.  Our scores dropped a little bit this year compared to last year's groups, different group of students. It's kind of hard to compare, but it shows the trend. We haven't,  haven't moved that much statewide. There is a a  not a trend of improvement. It's still a slow Covid recovery.  So the year before 2020 would have been 2019. Or 2018, I guess 2018. We haven't yet gotten back to that 2018 level statewide. If we were to combine those scores, combined SAT scores, this is kind of if you remember trying to get into college, you probably knew your combined SAT score. New Hampshire's average is 1050. Where 20, 22, nine, 17, 20, 23, eight, 95. So we're we're a little below that average.  But we are definitely within spitting distance  as we get into high school. So math trends we we see and Ela we see a recovery once those students get into high school from the elementary school and our scores go up and we get much closer to that state average compared to our elementary middle combination. Again, to repeat what Stephanie said, this is not on our teachers. They are working very hard. We haven't given them the tools that they need to be able to make these improvements, and I feel like we're going to start on that path.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So, I would say that's our most important instructional response at this time. We'll have it. And we're beginning with Ela and math. Those are the subject areas we begin

[R15123-113] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Mike Koski: baby steps for a little while. Love to come back and say we popped over the state average, but likelihood of that is probably not going to be next year. But I would say within two years we're we're right there. So any questions Frank.
TEXT> So,  back in the day when the only kids that took SATs were college bound kids, essentially, and I was in a position where  I would have a normally high achieving student take the S.A.T. and I might advise them to take the act instead. And I used to explain to people, which was true at that time, and I don't know if it is still true that the Saturday the the A stands for aptitude. And so I used to make the distinction in saying that the act is an achievement test that measures what you know, and the SAT measures how well you figure things out based on what you know. And those are very, very different tests. So I don't know if they if they've changed. It's been a while since I've been 10 or 12 years since I've looked at an SAT, but I don't. Is that still true? Do you know?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes. The general SAT is still an aptitude test. They also have specific content area tests, which are more like an achievement test. So you can take SAT and chemistry

[R15123-121] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated on the recording (el | 2023-06-07
PREV> Stephanie: the things you need to teach them, and you're not equipped to teach them the things from kindergarten through eighth grade. You're going to start in the least restrictive place possible. That's going to help that student be the most successful that they can be.
TEXT> And for example, this happens in math, social studies, science, and all content areas I could give you. But for the Ela department a couple of years ago, they noticed that conventions are running low in the writing scores. Year after year, they're zero. You can get a zero, 1 or 2. They focused in on materials that they could use. Last year they adopted no red ink. It may have been the year before that. Actually. They got no red ink this year. When you analyzed the scores, when you're looking at these charts, there's 62 pages of what Ela needs to teach. Okay. So when you're looking at this chart, that's  that's the whole house that needs to be remodeled for their scores. For conventions, they have 65% of students scored a two. Can't get any higher on conventions. Okay. So  I just want to make sure that our message is clear that we're saying teachers are working hard the same in kindergarten. We're going to come back and present to you our our ready scores. This is one score, right. And the test isn't that great.
NEXT> Stephanie: I'm going to tell you our test in New Hampshire needs to be revamped. And we looked at if you wanted to work on something as a board, that would

[R15123-161] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Policy Subcommittee chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Bonnie Miles: A, C, E and f.
TEXT> Yep. Yeah a BGABCOE and f c. Okay okay. And so just if you would like to take a look at those before you vote to withdraw them, they are  obsolete. The current the the current BG policy will cover everything that those policies did cover in the past. And so we don't need all of them.  Other than that, the policy committee has  created for ourselves an activity tracker where we are starting to prioritize and list the order in which we're going to tackle the review and update of various policies. Right now, we have eight policies in our hopper, which will take us probably through August or maybe September.  One policy related to public complaints and seven policies related to bullying and student conduct.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Has I doing a lot. Thank you. Would you kindly forward those, policy numbers or policy lettering to Chelsea? Yes. With a reminder that we must have a vote to

[R15123-225] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And it's been growing.
TEXT> You know, come and gone like people that don't have kids in the school anymore or what.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: He said. It's been growing.

[R15123-253] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So is this the point that you could suggest future agenda items?
TEXT> Yes. And I just wanted to go through the what we have here. Okay. So we have a school board meeting scheduled for the 21st and saw six school board meeting for  713. There was also a request for a lunch money debt accounting to be on a presentation. And I believe we're going to on our next agenda, I saw on the working agenda that we were going to have, possibly vote on our our food service vendor again. So maybe we can tie them both in at the same time. We had board members request  a discussion about traffic flow around Claremont Middle School and pick up and discharge issues, which a community member brought up at a previous meeting. Also, the. Potential of fourth grade civics trip to Concord and whether or not we can fund that as a district to make sure that every  fourth grade class is able to participate in that experience. It was a limited number of students this year,  as part of our Claremont School Board retreat, we discussed having a school board celebration of a achievement of at all grade levels, and that is to include the student that is demonstrated the most academic achievement, and then one student that has demonstrated the greatest level of progress in each grade.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We also discussed at our retreat having a school board self-evaluation retreat to discuss how we can improve as a board to serve our community and our district, and also

[R15123-256] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: is that pre. Covid 1918. 19, 18, 19 year. So it's really important that we have that everybody who is eligible those those out. And since we have somebody that's what their job description is I'd like to know how we're performing in that area.
TEXT> I know that we have been dropping statistically, over the last ten years we've been dropping. And I also know that, the legislature  voted down having  automatic reporting of Medicaid. What some states do is  anybody who is receiving Medicaid services with school age children, they automatically get free and reduced lunch. But our legislation legislature has voted that down to make that an automatic supply. So you still have to apply.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Even though you are eligible.

[R15123-258] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair | 2023-06-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Even though you are eligible.
TEXT> Even though you are eligible. So just for board members that haven't I mean, Frank and I have been on the board long enough to be dealing with  lunch debt for quite a while.  It's quite a struggle because there's there's not a lot of teeth that the district has to  you can't force somebody to pay,  knowing that  we're going to feed the child regardless. So there's really not a lot of mechanisms. We do have a policy in place currently,  how to respond to,  a child that is sent to school without lunch and without payment for lunch. So  it's,  it does have a policy that our policy does have teeth, but we as a board would probably want to revisit that and see if we want to,  suggest that it be applied more frequently than it is being applied.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Is the use of the Medicaid number sufficient identification for qualification when the forms are completed at the district level?

[R15123-274] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair, Capital Improvement subcommittee | 2023-06-07
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> So  hope Damon was there at that at that meeting.  Across the street. Yeah. For the for the. That's right. You were as well. And she said that for every applicant form that gets filled in and sent, sent in, then the state would pay for the for the food for that child for the year. I can't remember what the dollar amount was.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think it's roughly 1800 more.

[R15123-303] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member, elected 3/14/23 to the one-year seat | 2023-06-07
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I wonder if we're making this all too complicated in that there is a lane that runs around the middle school, and that is a solution.
TEXT> That's all that. Is in. The morning. So it would stand to reason that instead of winding all around the road and through the parking lot, parents would just be instructed like first in, first out, put up a sign with your last name, and then they call your kid out like, it's not that hard. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's not our problem to solve. I think. It's. It's not the school board's problem. And I think the school administration should solve it. Collaborate with the police, whoever you

[R15153-127] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board | 2023-06-21
PREV> David Jack: got to address that. What happens in some districts is we don't address it and you can't get the revenue. So there's only only you're getting revenues from reimbursement or from sales. That's really there's no other way to put revenue into the program. So,
TEXT> We'd be hopeful to know what our, what the sales are. That would be helpful if we knew what what exactly the numbers are,   compared to what they were perhaps adjusted for inflation. So we would know how many kids are going through the line. We'll be able to paint.
NEXT> David Jack: We'll be able to tell here at the end of this month what happened this past year. And the way your budget is laid out is the way that the

[R15153-140] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board — puts his own submitted written qu | 2023-06-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: give us a little bit more teeth into helping the administration. Fresh picks, kind of apply a little pressure to getting these this paperwork filled out. I know that multiple board members had submitted questions. And is there any discussion that those board members have.
TEXT> Just on the  number nine question? A little more clarity. I'd ask what percentage of Stevens students eat in the cafeteria, and should you answer? Juniors and seniors are allowed to participate in open lunch. But I was wondering, what percentage of of freshman sophomores did they all eat in the cafeteria, or do they all take lunch? Do we know what what we know that we know what the,  free and reduced lunch numbers are. But do we know how many other students and students there to.
NEXT> Miss Skinner: I was taking that question as you meant total enrollment, not just freshman and sophomore. And because juniors and seniors have open lunch, but on top of having open lunch,

[R15153-141] Miss Skinner | Food service / lunch program manager and district data (PowerSchool) m | 2023-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: freshman sophomores did they all eat in the cafeteria, or do they all take lunch? Do we know what what we know that we know what the, free and reduced lunch numbers are. But do we know how many other students and students there to.
TEXT> I was taking that question as you meant total enrollment, not just freshman and sophomore.  And because juniors and seniors have open lunch, but on top of having open lunch, they also have to have their privilege card approved. So if they don't have their privilege card approved, they have to stay in the cafeteria. I don't know how many kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we have to presume if they're keeping that vigilant, that all the freshmen and sophomores out there.

[R15153-144] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board | 2023-06-21
PREV> Miss Skinner: I would presume all freshmen sophomores are in the cafeteria, but I don't know how many juniors or seniors are in there. That's why I couldn't give you a accurate percentage of the total enrollment of the high school.
TEXT> One of the issues we had,  when we were talking about the viability of even having,  at that time, it was the Abbey group come in, was the unpredictability of the high school, and that was potentially a deal breaker for them as far as being worth it, even come to the district depending on how many kids from the high school eat there. So it's because that it's a very low number of people considering what they have for a setup, their the number of employees. Right.
NEXT> Miss Skinner: So and you can see that in the breakfast participation numbers that I gave you for the month of June, the high school only has 2% of their population eating

[R15153-154] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board | 2023-06-21
PREV> Miss Skinner: years with Covid have just knocked everything off the rails. They're there. Sometimes families are like, oh yeah, I turned in that application and it really wasn't last year. It was the year before. And just it all just kind of ran together for him.
TEXT> There was discussion years ago and I don't know if it's legal or not, but let's say I've I'm a parent, I've got a student in a third grade and I've got a student in the ninth grade, and  my third grader is getting free reduced lunch. And I can, can my ninth grader automatically get it because my family is eligible?
NEXT> Miss Skinner: It's one for. Yeah, yeah. Because yeah, it's one form per household. If they're doing the form if it's direct certification. If a child is identified on the state report,

[R15153-155] Miss Skinner | Food service / lunch program manager, SAU 6 — sub-second onset fragmen | 2023-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: I've I'm a parent, I've got a student in a third grade and I've got a student in the ninth grade, and my third grader is getting free reduced lunch. And I can, can my ninth grader automatically get it because my family is eligible?
TEXT> It's one for. Yeah, yeah. Because yeah, it's one form per household. If they're doing the form if it's direct certification.  If a child is identified on the state report,  any other child in the household qualifies automatically as well. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are they.

[R15153-172] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 — self-describes 'having been a princi | 2023-06-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we? Is that something we could.
TEXT> I think it's something we. There's no. Doubt that particularly having been a principal most of my career.  There's no doubt that schools know the individuals. They know the the families they know and the ability to dig into that and do it in a private way as well. You know,  piggybacking off of existing  events, oftentimes in some of the  buildings I ran, we had  at the high school level, we had honor society students and others. Okay. Identify for piggybacking off of existing events. It's not necessarily congruent with this with with  with privacy and things like that. But there are also other places to go around with a guidance counselor, with a trusted with a social worker, with the outreach worker Dean was talking about before. We have to do that at at at the school level, but we can also  assist in any way. But frankly, there's more staff to do that at schools and there's more knowledge, direct knowledge of of siblings, of family connections, of translations of, of all of that stuff at a granular level rather than from central. So we will discuss this again and revisit it and ask for suggestions. And I honestly think that,  particularly with a little bit of notice.
NEXT> Mike Koski: You don't we can all be at those some of those subcommittee meetings, maybe we have we grab a principal in there and we kind of you get the boots

[R15205-75] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — reads RSA 671:33, runs the board-vacan | 2023-07-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And the second.
TEXT> So we'll write that down as future agenda item is about. Any other questions for the superintendent related to superintendent report items? No. Moving on to discussion and action items.  First on our list is a request from  our supervising registered nurse requesting that we add to the over counter medication list. She. There was a, An exhibit within our packet outlining the reasons. And primarily it is now becoming  one of the more common ways of treating,  allergies. And many students are now having their allergies treated with zero tack versus Benadryl, but it is not on our approved over the counter the dispensed by the nurse protocol. So if there's any objections somebody like to make a motion. Miss Gillan.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: I have a question.

[R15205-93] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member — onset of her own motion | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Would like to make.
TEXT> Make. A motion that we, add the over-the-counter medications to the list of approved medications for students, for nurses to administer.
NEXT> Unidentified: Second.

[R15205-124] David Bailey | Applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat — Claremont homeo | 2023-07-19
PREV> David Bailey: Friday, and I was out voted, then fine, let's have the best chicken sandwiches we can. You know what I mean? So I think that's what's missing, actually, in our country today, as far as politics go, not that the school board is following politics.
TEXT> You know what I'm trying to say?  Number two, what special skills were I bring to,  that's currently underrepresented?  Just listening to you guys talk just a second ago about the difficulty getting school bus drivers.  You know, I have a CD, LP. I got my license 20 years go by being a school bus driver for Concord School District. Actually, that was 1998, but I drove truck for 20 years.  You know, I can bring perspective on how hard it is to get school bus drivers and why.  And the climate today, as far as the pay and what you probably need to attract and keep something like that, free lunch, you know, talking about the signing up parents for the the if the qualifier not I have kids in the school district. I've been through it. You know, I was pretty sure that I wasn't going to qualify, but I signed up anyway because I know that they needed a certain amount to to get the funding.  I both my sons are, autistic.  So I have a good idea. You know, as we go through this process here in this school district of, like, what's starting to work, what we could do better, I could bring that perspective as a parent.
NEXT> David Bailey: You know what I'm experiencing? Maybe what we could do better or what? You know, stuff like that. Three. What two issues is a priority that the school board might

[R15205-125] David Bailey | Applicant for the vacant Claremont School Board seat — Claremont homeo | 2023-07-19
PREV> David Bailey: funding. I both my sons are, autistic. So I have a good idea. You know, as we go through this process here in this school district of, like, what's starting to work, what we could do better, I could bring that perspective as a parent.
TEXT> You know what I'm experiencing? Maybe what we could do better or what? You know, stuff like that. Three.  What two issues  is a priority that the school board might be dealing with? Kind of the same thing with my children. I really think that,  you know, the when I moved here, the, the wrap on Claremont was just a horrible school district. And one of the things and  I haven't experienced that yet.  My both my sons have IPS, and the teachers have been great.  I really think we should concentrate on teacher contracts in the pay. I really.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Have about two minutes left. Mr..

[R15205-177] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — reads RSA 671:33, runs the board-vacan | 2023-07-19
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Moving into strategies for improving documentation. Accuracy of free and reduced lunch. Average daily membership. As Mr. Henry. Mr.. Henry. Sorry, Mr.. Tyson. Okay, okay. As Miss Henry and  Mr.. Mr. pesta mentioned.  We have an issue with our  free and reduced lunch enrollment. It has a direct negative impact on the resources that are available to our district. I would like just just to kind of get a sense of what this impacts. It impacts our relief aid, our extraordinary need for print, in addition to our direct cost of adequacy aid for simply having free and reduced lunch, numbers. So  our relief aid just for the public. So I'm just reading this out for the public. The relief aid grant is an additional grant. Free municipalities based on the percentage of free and reduced eligible, average daily membership and eligibility starts at 12% free and reduced eligible with a grant equal to 150 per free and reduced lunch student. The grant increases by 12.5 cents for each additional point 1% increase in free and reduced percentage, up to 150  up to $150 grant, and at 48% free and reduced lunch.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Eligible to grant amount reaches a maximum of 600 per free and reduced average daily membership. So not only affects us individually, but it affects the relief aid and an

[R15205-187] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former principal of Stevens High S | 2023-07-19
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: what needs to also have available at the Back to School festival, which is largely attended. So even if the applications are available there or people can ask questions. But I agree. I think our goal should be 100% and like fill out the forms.
TEXT> I agree. So one of the having having been around for a while, when we made the transition from our own lunch service to, to Fresh. Fresh mix, we did that for a couple of reasons. One was that we had tons of kids leaving the high school because they didn't find the food to be good.  Not a lot of variety. And in looking at that's why I ask these probing questions about how many kids are actually eating at the high school, because one of the one of the main reasons we went to Fresh Picks was so that kids would eat at that school. And if that's not working, I'm wondering if  if if it's time to look at our own program again. And the reason I say that is back in the day, we had Carol Gregory, and when I was in high school, it was Myrtle Weed. That's how long ago that was. And,  when you have your own people there, because this never happened when we had our own lunch service. This is a new this is a new phenomenon with, no, there were subcontracting our lunch services out. This is new, and I have to think that there's a connection between subcontracting lunch services and having our own. And maybe I look at Mary, and maybe it's just not feasible economically. And if it's not, you know, it's not.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But but I think I think that that this is an offshoot of, of that change. I. I think it. Could be two and. One thing. And I know that

[R15205-189] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — onset of her own turn | 2023-07-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: who is paying. And when it comes to their bottom line, they're very motivated to make sure those kids get those forms. So I'm not saying we we ditch fresh picks. I'm just pointing out that it's a heck of a coincidence in my mind.
TEXT> If. I think of messaging is the key point here. And to make it about the lunch paperwork instead of the free and reduced lunch paperwork, and to reduce the stigma behind it. And, and I think incentivizing making it a goal for kids to bring in the lunch paperwork. Versus.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We should get book machines and give away tokens so kids can buy books.

[R15205-190] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: the key point here. And to make it about the lunch paperwork instead of the free and reduced lunch paperwork, and to reduce the stigma behind it. And, and I think incentivizing making it a goal for kids to bring in the lunch paperwork. Versus.
TEXT> We should get book machines and give away tokens so kids can buy books.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So if we're going to move forward on this initiative, what are some is there anything that we can help as a board as far as approving dollars or initiatives?

[R15205-196] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I would like to ask that there'd be a discussion also about.
TEXT> Outreaching into the homes. There are folks in every community. Who are unable to complete the forms because of the difficulty of completing the forms. They're not simply written, they're not easy to process. I tried myself, I know how difficult they are. And I don't disagree. With you. And I do remember that we had success when our social worker or whoever had a relationship with the family went into the home. There was a trusting relationship and all students were gone. So if we're incentivizing, we want to make sure that every family can be part of that incentive and not excluded because they don't know how to fill in the form, so they can't fill in the forms.
NEXT> Mary Henry: I don't disagree with you, but again, we need to sit down and talk with the principals and find out who those contacts are. I'm new to the district, so

[R15205-207] Candace Crawford | Appointed to the Claremont School Board 4-2 earlier in this meeting (s | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.
TEXT> Candace Crawford, Ward two. I have talked to Gary Merchant about this and a couple of points. I couldn't agree with you more that having a organized plan will make all the difference.  However, one of the things that Gary keeps telling me is that,  and as you know, he's a state rep, and he keeps telling me the way that the budget has been approved for next year,  so much it has changed so that more emphasis  is put on the free and reduced lunch, folks,  how your numbers for a free and reduced lunch. And so the money coming into the school district is more  and is more important to get those free induced numbers accurate. And it's like $8,500 per student. The second point is I think that it's really important to, keep the, the whether they eat the food or not, separate from the enrolling in the program. And I loved your idea of enroll everybody and see what happens. Because then it avoids the stigma just every. So in that regard, I can imagine de sitting there saying, oh my gosh, is she crazy? And but maybe there can be a person hired part time. I would,  I would ask for volunteers, but I know that there are restrictions on information.  You know, information of our parents, unless they are our employee of the district.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so maybe it could be a short term higher this summer or, you know, for two weeks in August to to help out with that. Just some thoughts.

[R15205-212] Candace Crawford | Appointed to the Claremont School Board 4-2 earlier in this meeting bu | 2023-07-19
PREV> Mary Henry: Approved, but yes. Right, right. I'm saying but.
TEXT> You know, after having two students, you'd  you'd pay for the part time person if you had two more students sign up than you otherwise would have had. Thank you.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: When, when when he presented last time she talked about having three roles. She does lunch. She's listed on the website as data manager and also power school. I'm wondering

[R15205-221] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member — presses on scope and cost of the propo | 2023-07-19
PREV> Mary Henry: Oh, I know. I know, but I like to get things done. That's the way I work. So this drives me crazy to not have it.
TEXT> Has it been a practice at the beginning of the school year, to include these forms in the packets of every single student, as like with the all the rest of the mandatory information their parents need to fill out? Yes, I.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Know when my kids were in school for sure.

[R15205-222] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — reads RSA 671:33, runs the board-vacan | 2023-07-19
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Has it been a practice at the beginning of the school year, to include these forms in the packets of every single student, as like with the all the rest of the mandatory information their parents need to fill out? Yes, I.
TEXT> Know when my kids were in school for sure.
NEXT> Mary Henry: And one goes to every home by mail.

[R15205-225] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — gives the Superintendent's Report;  | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Has to.
TEXT> I think the innovative piece that's worked in a variety of settings that I'm hearing and it's you would think it's not a it's not anything new for anyone who's been a principal to. But, piggybacking off of the existing well populated, you know, events where, you know, you're going to get crowds having business, the toughest part about this is being able to tease off in a little in a in a corner, right around the corner to have the privacy to do this. What stinks is there's other things that you can have,  on a side of students and others help out. And we always have that. But we we have to have  a few people that we have ready to just take confidentially right around the corner, help them with those forms. Same idea about going out into the community with social workers and and the like. They also, if we were to send the social workers out, we have to ramp them up as well and get them onto this. But they're all solid ideas that we can fall off on. Right.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And just to miss Crawford's point, I am planning on having either Mr. Merchant or Miss Damon come to a meeting within the next few meetings. To give an explanation

[R15205-232] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — gives the Superintendent's Report;  | 2023-07-19
PREV> Whitney Skillen: to those notifications via Facebook, and that any post we make on to the web page be automatically, automatically posted to our Facebook page. Like new announcement on the on the web page. It can even link directly to the web page. Yeah. That's my.
TEXT> And I think I want to clarify a couple of things. So, Eric, as everyone knows, in the community is great community assets.  And was also, you know,  one of the driving forces behind the ticker.  And we used him to write articles for us that we were still managing,  to, to do the and it took a couple of meetings to do it. And Eric's great.  And we still want to use him in the piecemeal. What we have done so far, though, we reached out to  someone who along the lines that that you're talking with a  to  Allison Saint Aubin, who used to work for the Claremont Savings Bank doing marketing and outreach efforts.  And she is also a project manager of how to disseminate, how to work with multiple platforms. Do all these things. And  I think you have the the written  part that we just got in today because the vacation schedules and the like, where her areas of opportunity, she did a bend audit and a little bit about her as well. And she's also a mom of other students in town. And  like many of you, even even like us to control sometimes very frustrated with our own splash page and things like that, that it's  it's it's a it's funny, you know, you say it's not.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, she came in, we spoke to her about doing contract work. And you project this again. This is all of using Esser money that is already written for grants

[R15205-273] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — gives the Superintendent's Report;  | 2023-07-19
PREV> Whitney Skillen: media site. Who was going to maintain our presence? Who's going to be making these frequent posts on the live feed of the website and the school website, and then carrying those over to the social media page as more of a communications manager role?
TEXT> Yeah. So,  at least in our preliminary discussions, she also was available with  Chelsea, with Megan. Okay. In our central office being the training and the outreach person to each school to grow that capacity, that's frankly what in that that's what got us going that this this is a good person to lead this initially and I agree. Come back, see where we are and see what we need to do. But, a web page is only as good as how consistently you can keep up with the expectation of. And we started doing this a few years ago in the before time. Right. I hate even referencing that. Okay. But the  but we said, okay, how how do we do this? We had the discussion with the principals, with the administrative assistants, and we said, what does it look like? Do we have to. Part of the handicap is only at the schools do they know which students can be photographed, which can't. The sensitivity of that has to be from the building as to what goes out in order to.  Because we started with, okay, how about 5 or 10  updates or pages? How do we rotate events, how do we recognize students? And that's what we need to come back to the next year. And it's going to be a big priority, as I absolutely hear that it's a board priority as well.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I'm going to also come back to Erickson Goddard if it's possible for him to come to the board, because I and I don't know if anybody else fully understands

[R15205-279] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — short backchannel and sentence continu | 2023-07-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: no, She would she's a good coordinator of I see Eric is a, he's a very well trained journalist. Okay. Incapable of a lot. And also gifted photography as well. So however, we get many assets as possible improving. The more the merrier. Completely agree.
TEXT> Okay. So,  All right. Do we have any more discussion or. It sounds like we're going to be tabling or,  postponing absolute determination on what to do with the Claremont School Board Facebook page until we hear from Allison Saint Aubin and hear what her ideas and plans are  as a vision. So we'll just as boredom and grievance that we'll just table that for now until we get more information. Moving on to our next two items, which are five and six.  These are tentative dates to set tentative dates or to have a discussion about, our timeline for having our disruptive behaviors. Retreat and school board, self-evaluation retreat. The summer is kind of gotten away from us, as it always seems to get away from us, and our our agendas have been very dense. It was a commitment of the board at our school board retreat that we do address this disruptive behavior issues that we have fulminating in our schools or being of great concern to students,  administrators and  the board alike. And we also had a commitment to  start addressing our board's  self-evaluation, and that we have failed to do that in the past, and we need to make that a priority to keep us at our best.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That said, there is going to be issues with, particularly as we move into the school year, being able to align the schedules of administration and external, personnel that we

[R15205-304] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — addressed as 'Ben' at segment 5 | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: around what we want. Right? We have to develop a vision of what we're looking for is for information, how we're going to get feedback from the community. I mean, I think this is a big project. It's not a little project. Can I? Yes.
TEXT> Can I offer a point? One, I'd be happy to facilitate all the court related. Great folks. There's there's two new judges that are now serving in Claremont. I've sat before, both of them.  The other people that we want to talk to are the people that are involved in juvenile patrol officers. And then there's  diversion as a program that's now back  and students are going through diversion. So I know all of those players, I can get them to the table. Just a thought.  As you sort of flesh this out, I think it's probably important for the board and for even Central office to understand what the courts can and cannot do. Yes, yes. And the juvenile parole officers, what they can and cannot do, the police when we should and should not call them. And I think if we if, if we could start there. Yes, that might inform the work we do with our administrative team.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think that was completely the plan into your point. Okay. Because we don't know what the parameters are. Yeah. And we don't know what the expectations are. And so

[R15205-306] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member — identified by elimination; nobody name | 2023-07-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: there's frustration within the community, the school community and in the larger community because of those lack of understanding is we don't think people are fulfilling their roles when perhaps they are actually going to the extent the full extension of their of their reach.
TEXT> And Ben also when when it's a special ed student that's involved in those behaviors. What  what does that mean? Sure. Because if it's a manifestation, it's a different.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah, there's a whole nother path of.

[R15205-403] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 — addressed as 'Ben' at segment 5 | 2023-07-19
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Oh nine people.
TEXT> Sorry if my my numbers might be off by 1 or 2. We have, I believe, seven students that are  learning English as a second language. And then we have a handful of others that are on monitoring status. So for. Students and.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Maybe the family members don't.

[R15205-405] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-07-19
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Maybe the family members don't.
TEXT> Students, but their parents may not be, the parents may not be.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So they may not be an issue there.

[R15205-477] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board — reads RSA 671:33, runs the board-vacan | 2023-07-19
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Or we can drop one at the retreat. That's great.
TEXT> Okay, let's do that. Okay. And recognize some staff people. You had a staff member who was had a lovely photo and an article written about her interaction with her students, and she was recognized by a parent. The parent contacted, and I had her name written on a post-it.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: It's Michelle Harrington.

[R15228-24] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair hands off 'move forward t | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thanks, Steve. Can anyone else for citizens climates? Seeing no one coming to the podium, they'll close citizens comments and move forward to the superintendent report. I, Mr. Tempesta.
TEXT> So first, I might add, at the end, we, I believe I think it's on the website now, but we got  just a shout out for the CMS Bandcamp. They had a performance piece that Chelsea was working on getting on the website today. But  they they did a really good version of Rock star and presented that at Silver Maples  Citizen Center, and it was very well received. Next item that I have is  just a response to the was a concern  citizen related to the letters of intent  not being attached to the agenda last meeting and  those  the reason for that was we didn't get those redacted in time. There was we didn't get those redacted in time. There was too much personal information on those. But they've  since been rectified. And  the Back to School festival, I had a  just a shout out to everyone at home. I know that this is on our website, and we're going to also do a  robocall out to folks to remind them of that.  But  the festivals on Saturday the 26th, from ten to noon. And I was also reminded that after the festival, there's going to be  Courtney's Closet  in the Stevens High School gym, which is for students to look over  and see if they need clothing, and we'll be pushing that out as well over the next few weeks.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we also have some new members in the saw six office that I want to speak about. Brianna Connell took over as the out of district coordinator for For

[R15228-59] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So thank you.
TEXT> I have a question about the combined elementary classroom is that students who are in grade four will be in the same classroom with students in grade five. So is that a new program that's happening in Claremont?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's not it's not a new program. It's not anything like that. It's just knowing the numbers. I think it was 27. Students were in fifth grade. We had three

[R15228-60] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair hands off 'move forward t | 2023-08-02
PREV> Bonnie Miles: I have a question about the combined elementary classroom is that students who are in grade four will be in the same classroom with students in grade five. So is that a new program that's happening in Claremont?
TEXT> It's not it's not a new program. It's not anything like that. It's  just knowing the numbers. I think it was 27. Students were in fifth grade.  We had three fifth grade openings  in one in each school, and we just don't have any candidates at all. And they've been so what they  what Christine looked to do because of the smaller numbers. And the other class was combined that class. So  with the fourth and fifth curriculum.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So so there will be one teacher in the room teaching fourth grade and fifth grade curriculum to that group of students.

[R15228-61] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in one in each school, and we just don't have any candidates at all. And they've been so what they what Christine looked to do because of the smaller numbers. And the other class was combined that class. So with the fourth and fifth curriculum.
TEXT> So so there will be one teacher in the room teaching fourth grade and fifth grade curriculum to that group of students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Correct. I think there's going to be two of those. I, I honestly don't have it in front of me right now. I wasn't, but we're still holding off. We're

[R15228-100] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School - the chair calls 'Miss Lewis' at | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: The only other. I just had one question. Are we still doing chins. Versus.
TEXT> Filing chins when needed? Is there is there it's a much different process than it used to be many years ago, but it does remain an option much harder for elementary students. Okay. Much harder.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But it still exists because I don't know. In the back of my head I thought it went away.

[R15228-120] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's okay. Okay. Did anybody like to make a motion? I'll do it.
TEXT> I move that we accept the elementary Claremont Elementary, 2324 family and student elementary handbook. With the amended or with the included changes.
NEXT> Unidentified: How's that? I'll second. Okay.

[R15228-152] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair calls 'Principal Pratt' at  | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: to do what was called the Chandler salute, and they had to put their hands at their sides and their shorts had to be longer than their fingers. So looking at your graphic, that's what pop back in my mind. Was the. The Chandler salute.
TEXT> Yeah, I've dealt with that in the past. Other high schools where the arguments touched that just because my student has short arms, they shouldn't be penalized for being on a dress code. So I didn't want to go down that road again. So I just said, here's a. Here's a diagram. This is what it looks like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh my God.

[R15228-154] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair calls 'Principal Pratt' at  | 2023-08-02
PREV> Unidentified: Oh my God.
TEXT> The other the other for clarification is that, as you know, is the high school students have to have community service hours to graduate. So this year,  based on privileges for juniors and seniors, we want to make sure that they're,  community service hours are up to date in regards to before they get their, their privileges and stuff. So we've kind of we're just gave them more clarification. And that's on page 60 of what we're expecting for community service hours. Say a student moves here their junior year. They're not required to do all 48 hours to graduate just based on that, because we find at the end of the year it's a huge push. If kids aren't going to graduate, if they don't have, if they could be passing all the classes that pass all their classes, but if they don't have all 48 hours of community service, they don't graduate. So we're trying to clean that up a little bit where there is no big surprise and there's not this last minute rush to get community service I was in. So we added that just to give them more clarification, what to expect. And that's for juniors who have lunch and for seniors who have privileges, who can leave for their off campus when they're allowed.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I had a problem with the pagination. It doesn't. The table of contents pages, unless I messed up, don't match the pages of the handbook itself.

[R15228-165] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Chris Pratt: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> And I had another question when it came. When it comes to the academic dishonesty cheating portion. Is there any thought about the AI  apps that kids are using?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: ChatGPT.

[R15228-187] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - a fragment of her own sentence, clippe | 2023-08-02
PREV> Chris Pratt: I haven't touched.
TEXT> I believe in. Student athletes so I have a tough. I've had a tough time with C minus.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well there's no D is that. Is there a D incompetency.

[R15228-200] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: D I think so because I think you got to have a.
TEXT> I think so I, I just have an issue. I want our I want our athletes to be student athletes. So I don't know when the appropriate time to address that is probably not now. But when I saw that I was like. Wow.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is there a great explanation of grading in here, Chris, somewhere?

[R15228-211] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> I can make a comment. May I Athletics. Can I do that. I really like the,  the behavioral the dress code. I like the way it's laid out. Clearly, in terms of,  restitution. It's it's a very distinct process. And I think it's very clear for parents and students to understand.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So thank you. It's important to us because at any given point, there's three of us who could be working on discipline. And consistency to us is one of the

[R15228-239] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 - the chair announces 'Jeff Small, techn | 2023-08-02
PREV> Jeff Small: roster those. That was something that takes a lot of my time to do where this application coordinator could do that. And then they work with the teachers. They pulled the data. So I'm just just as we're thinking, how can we make this better?
TEXT> How can we get communication quicker?  Even putting staff names. I know it seems simple.  But, you know, when you go in and a fire panel is going off or some security things going off, I can't I can't put names on the website. So, you know, you're always prioritizing what we need to do. So I definitely ask the board to consider a position. I wouldn't say this is a full time job.  But an application coordinator could not only help my department, I think it could really help the curriculum department as well. Help bridge some of those applications. Some of the. How do we use this? How do we get students in on it? So just just something to think about. And I'll queue up the app so you guys can see it. It'll look a little funny because it's on the big screen, but if you want to see it. I can.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think that would be helpful for us to see what families and students have on their phones.

[R15228-240] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Jeff Small: we get students in on it? So just just something to think about. And I'll queue up the app so you guys can see it. It'll look a little funny because it's on the big screen, but if you want to see it. I can.
TEXT> I think that would be helpful for us to see what families and students have on their phones.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Can I ask a question before you do that? Currently in the tech department, there are three of you that handle everything in technology for all the schools. Am I

[R15228-246] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 - the chair announces 'Jeff Small, techn | 2023-08-02
PREV> Bonnie Miles: So this would be a different focus in order to keep the apps. I'm not using the right terminology, current and up to date, and assisting people to become more fluent in using them. Is that correct?
TEXT> That's correct. And what that does, myself and even our data person spend a lot of time with rostering because rostering students and staff and applications come from the student information system. So you have to have somebody bridge between those. This one, they don't know the app. We kind of mutter through the app and then we roster kids so they can use it during for school. The other big piece that that application coordinator could do, how well is that application being used. Do we want to continue to use it? Is it only used by six people? Everybody wanted it. But is it only used by six people? Do we really want to spend even more money or look at other things that may be a better tool? So, we're kind of the piece that we can we get it going and we drop it. There. Because we just don't have the time to to really, you know, to really work hand in hand with staff  or train them efficiently to do that. And I know the curriculum was building on that, and they do work with that as well. But it's just a small piece. And again, there's a lot of avenues and different responsibilities.
NEXT> Jeff Small: When I was looking at an application coordinator does so you know, they do anything from data management. If you, if the board wants like how the data from certain

[R15228-423] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: have is from the DOH, and the Dre, the Department of Revenue Administration and Department of Education. The spreadsheet that we get for adequacy aid is calculated by the DOH, and it is approved by the Doe, and it is done three times a year.
TEXT> Student counts though, come from us that the data is sent through our I for C program so that they can update our accounts on a regular basis. So I'm going to start with a little bit of recap from fiscal year 20 forward as to what they changed. First of all, in fiscal year 20 we went from getting 80% of our stabilization grant, which was in place of fiscal year 2012, to make districts whole. When they went and changed the formula back then they put it to 100%. So they gave us back our money that they had taken away because it was it was coming out at 4% per year to bring it down to zero.  The next thing is kindergarten students got counted as full time because they weren't before.   Unless you have a half day kindergarten and then they would still be half day again. Preschool students are not counted the next year in fiscal year 21. We received again 100% of that stabilization grant. But then what they did is they did an additional aid for free and reduced, which is based on our free and reduced percentages in our adequacy formula. At the end of this, I do have a spreadsheet that shows you how it was all broken down and what the changes were.
NEXT> Mary Henry: But in fiscal year 22, again, 100% of stabilization, the ADM and F accounts free and reduced, were taken back to fiscal year 20 because of course, during Covid people

[R15228-425] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: is given to us. It is raised by the taxpayers that one year they lowered the amount. So in this year it's gone back up for fiscal year 23. The relief aid grant came into place that was also based on our free and reduced.
TEXT> The extraordinary grant, which was put into place, was a free and reduced count of $650 per student that was put into place. Hold harmless grant was added, which guaranteed US 95% of our fiscal 23 adequacy aid of the estimated  We adequacy aid that they gave us in fiscal year 22 of November. Or, excuse me, 21. That's right. They do it way in advance. Then we come to fiscal year 24. Swept went back to normal, which was like a $400,000 swing base and differential rates were increased while the third grade reading aid was repealed. So that was taken off the table. Relief aid in fiscal year 12 stabilization grant were also repealed. So you'll notice in this year they took away the stabilization grant, which was roughly took 6.2 million. But they put in the extraordinary grant. Base amount went from 652. 8500 per student. Now there's also the home.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Hold.

[R15228-432] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Bonnie Miles: 200%.
TEXT> That's what the phase out process is going to be on the hold harmless grant that they have.  Again, like I said, hold harmless was much like stabilization.  But again, they took stabilization away. They repealed at which I, I wasn't expecting that this year seems to be a very big overhaul of what they're doing. The other thing that they did was on the hold harmless. It was supposed to be 95%. They increased it to 104% for this year on fiscal year 24. But like I said, there's a lot of changes going on. I think that, again, I, I really do feel the lawsuit is driving a lot of this,  because it's coming down to how much inadequacy aid we should be getting for a base adequacy aid per student, which is roughly a little over $9,000 for the lawsuit. I know  Mr. Tempesta and myself both testified for the lawsuit  over wasn't conquered. I can't think of where it is now. Way over on the other side there. But,  like I said, it was it was really interesting to be at and watch.  Next thing. So I'm going to go into a little bit of how adequacy aid is calculated.
NEXT> Mary Henry: First of all, average daily membership ADM free and reduced or EF inner and then assessed and equalized value. I want to give a little bit of an explanation of

[R15228-433] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: think of where it is now. Way over on the other side there. But, like I said, it was it was really interesting to be at and watch. Next thing. So I'm going to go into a little bit of how adequacy aid is calculated.
TEXT> First of all, average daily membership ADM free and reduced or EF inner  and then assessed and equalized value. I want to give a little bit of an explanation of what everything is. So I'm going to probably kind of read from the screen. But hey, the aggregate membership of students attending the schools operated by a school district, divided by the number of days of instruction offered during the school year, that is Adam. Adam consists of students within your district. Students that are also residents that are  in another state are going to another school, but are still considered part of your district.  Students that are tuition by the resident district, meaning us if we have to tuition a kid to another school for some reason, they count on our accounts. Preschoolers are not included in Adam. Charter school students are not included.  Home school students enrolled in high school academic courses at the rate of 0.15, which I see a little error there. I didn't put a space Adam per course  only if excess adequacy aid is available at the end of the year. Will they honor that at the bottom? You'll see. I've got the website that you can go to for all this information that gives you the explanations.
NEXT> Mary Henry: The next thing is free and reduced. Free and reduced, like I said, is determined by October 1st. And it is very important that we get that out there. The

[R15228-434] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: a space Adam per course only if excess adequacy aid is available at the end of the year. Will they honor that at the bottom? You'll see. I've got the website that you can go to for all this information that gives you the explanations.
TEXT> The next thing is free and reduced. Free and reduced, like I said, is determined by October 1st. And it is very important that we get that out there.  The rates that they're giving us per student have substantially increased from the regular 2% every two years.  Only students that qualify for free and reduced count toward our adequacy aid calculation. I want to make that clear. We can get as many applications in, but the only ones that count are the ones that qualify. Students that are Tanev or Snap benefits automatically qualify for free and reduced.  I want to say this because I was talking to the state the other day about this,  that if you look at the income guidelines for free and reduced, they're still very low, whereas wages are starting to go up. Whether you work at McDonald's or you work at Walmart or you work here or wherever you work, those wages have gone up quite a bit. So that could be part of the reason why our numbers are going down. People aren't meeting the guidelines, but Tanev and Snap benefits have different income guidelines. So I think we need to start pushing that a little bit too, that people should apply for those benefits because that will automatically qualify them even if they don't meet the free and reduced requirements.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So something to think about, in addition to the adequacy aid for your reduced counts, are used to determine other grants and local programs within your community. So again, they

[R15228-437] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: get would be 12,990,000. They made some changes. Going down through the sweat tax is a big one, $384,000 difference that they said your town did not need to raise from taxation. So that makes your number here, which is your total cost calculated less.
TEXT> So it would increase your amount. You're going to get. The next thing is the extraordinary grant for free and reduce which was 418,000. And then again there was the relief aid. Extraordinary grant though comes with strings. We have to have a plan to spend that money, which we have. So we're all set there. And again then you see our stabilization grant. You see the changes though  in the admin once they got finalized. So we did have an increase in pupils.  We had a decrease in our free and reduced. Our special education went up. But again it did change. Next I want to give you our estimator for fiscal 24  and the actual estimated because again haven't got the firm number yet, but it should be receiving it soon $549,000 additional adequacy aid based on fiscal year 24. Estimated to fiscal years 24. Adequacy 4%. You got 104% of what you were estimated. So again, those numbers in between won't change. So if you put in another kid into your free and reduced numbers, that 8500 is going to come down because the average is going to change because we at here get the whole harmless grant a 287,000 that they're giving us to keep us whole at the 104%.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Again, big thing to remember, base adequacy aid went from 3866 to 4100. Biggest jump we've had yet. The most we usually have, like I said, is 2% every two

[R15228-438] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: in another kid into your free and reduced numbers, that 8500 is going to come down because the average is going to change because we at here get the whole harmless grant a 287,000 that they're giving us to keep us whole at the 104%.
TEXT> Again, big thing to remember, base adequacy aid went from 3866 to 4100. Biggest jump we've had yet. The most we usually have, like I said, is 2% every two years. And that has gone on forever. Has not kept up with inflation.  Free and reduced. Same thing. They went from 1900 to $2300 a kid. That's why I say to you, this is an important thing. Next year this number will stay the same unless they decide to change it. But it usually is every two years.  I did see that they were looking at changing it another 2%, but again, I'm not 100% positive on that. As you can see, the grade three reading below proficiency. Had they've taken out and repealed, they repealed the stabilization grant, but they put in place the  extraordinary grant, which again, you have to have the plan for which we have. Okay. So next I wanted to show you adequacy aid from 23 to 24. $142,000 under. So we're receiving $142,000 less than we did in fiscal year 23 to fiscal year 24. And that is because of swept. Swept is your biggest change here along with the extraordinary grant. But again swept went back up. That's where we really lost the money.  Like I told you, it was a one time deal. It's a big difference of 420,000.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Again, it's only a percent, but every percent counts. So now I put this together at the end because I wanted you to see what adequacy was from fiscal year

[R15228-452] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: I mean, speaking as a parent, definitely. I have a ton of things that I have to do at the start of every school year. And I just think having something at an event like the back to school I'm with you would be great.
TEXT> We will be there at the back. We will be there for that. I think that's important. And,  you know, the biggest thing is to promote that. There isn't a stigma with this. You know, it's it's here to help you. That's what it's all about. We all run on hard times sometimes and it's hard to I know myself, I know how hard it can be. But I fallen on hard times. You know, when we lost our jobs. Back when my kids were first born. Now they're 31 and 27. But, you know, to do that is a hard thing to do. But I think times are changing and families need to understand it is there to help them. It's not there to single them out or make them feel bad because they aren't, you know, they don't have that money is there for them as a tool to help them get by, to get them to where they need to go, you know?
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: And to clarify. Families only need to qualify, not utilize the free and reduced in order for us to do it as a district.

[R15228-455] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023); Tech Center Visio | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: Even if you think you don't qualify, please do it. And if the guidelines are too low. Please look into those other two options the chain up and the snap. Because they do have different guidelines to to meet. Thank you. Okay. Any other questions?
TEXT> So in one of the slides it's you talking about the free and reduced lunch student count and statement. Students that receive to an F and Snap benefits automatically qualify for free and reduced. They automatically qualify. But do they? Are they added to the count?
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yes they are, because they automatically come through to the website for us and we download that information and the state downloads it into our numbers.

[R15228-459] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023); Tech Center Visio | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: They directly certify.
TEXT> Good. Okay.  And they directly count them. Yes.  How can you tell me how many,  students in our district qualify?
NEXT> Mary Henry: I don't know that.

[R15228-465] Hope Damon | New Hampshire state representative, Sullivan District 8 - self-identif | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: You have it now already.
TEXT> So I think last year that for qualified was just over 700, and there were 105 children between 5 and 1812, five for Medicaid, for Medicaid. Was qualified. So we're missing. Based on previous numbers, which as noted, there's a lot of moving parts, but we're missing several hundred kids.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Potentially they need to apply for staff. That's I mean, just because you apply for one doesn't mean you apply for all. And that's where we're trying to work with

[R15228-483] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: to get it. And that's half the battle. Okay, so, and we do work outside of school hours, so I do. So that's my job. Wow. And my job is to bring you that information. So I will bring you that information. Thank you. Okay.
TEXT> I just need a little clarification. The students that receive Town or Snap benefits automatically qualify for Fahrt. They still have to complete the forms. No.
NEXT> Mary Henry: No, because they would be directly certified. So it would be a direct cert that would come into our system, into our population of students and would transfer in to

[R15228-484] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Bonnie Miles: I just need a little clarification. The students that receive Town or Snap benefits automatically qualify for Fahrt. They still have to complete the forms. No.
TEXT> No, because they would be directly certified. So it would be a direct cert that would come into our system, into our  population of students and would transfer in to the data for the state so that, no, they would not have to fill out an application.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So that our families receiving Snap benefits. The information is already in and they're already included in the numbers.

[R15228-506] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So what is what is special ed aid on this form.
TEXT> Special ed aid is your kids that have  I'm trying to think it's or identified students that need special education services. And those are the ones that are considered here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. So we have a certain percentage of our kids that are. So if we go from 600 and has the formula changed or we just have more special ed

[R15228-508] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So we have a certain percentage of our kids that are. So if we go from 600 and has the formula changed or we just have more special ed kids?
TEXT> Right now from fiscal year 23 to fiscal year 24, the amount has changed. But we also have about 30 more kids are giving us this year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So it's more kids. It's not.

[R15228-509] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Mary Henry: Right now from fiscal year 23 to fiscal year 24, the amount has changed. But we also have about 30 more kids are giving us this year.
TEXT> So it's more kids. It's not.
NEXT> Mary Henry: It's more kids this year. Right. Which again, coming out of Covid doesn't surprise me. But again, that's that's the difference between 23 and 24.

[R15228-510] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So it's more kids. It's not.
TEXT> It's more kids this year. Right. Which again, coming out of Covid doesn't surprise me.  But again, that's that's the difference between 23 and 24.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[R15228-568] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: When you click on the policy link on the homepage, if you scroll down and go to this policy JLCB. Then click on that link. It will open up the current Claremont policy.
TEXT> I have I have one request or one consideration,  that under paragraph B that we strike one under paragraph B and replace it with the appointment date or dates, child is scheduled to receive required vaccinations. And the reason I bring forth that change is because there are exceptions for  other children that I think,  does not make this policy necessarily fair because this policy works under the current the policy has written, works under the assumption that children that are not homeless are in stable home environments and do not  are not granted the same leniency. And so I would hate to see a kid that hasn't had their vaccination be denied entry into the school. When a homeless and a homeless child can be given access to the school, I think we need to give some leniency. Just for fairness.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: That sounds good. What would it sound like? What would it read?

[R15228-570] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: That sounds good. What would it sound like? What would it read?
TEXT> It would read,  to strike number one and then to make number two. Number one and just have it be,  a child who has not met the immunization requirements of paragraph A above may be conditionally enrolled in allowed to attend school when the parent or guardian provides the appointment date or dates. The child is scheduled to receive required vaccinations because right now it's just working on the under the assumption that it punishes kids that don't have kids,  parents that are.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And it also takes into consideration it takes three months to go to get into the doctor. Now.

[R15228-572] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: And it also takes into consideration it takes three months to go to get into the doctor. Now.
TEXT> So the correct the wording that you're recommending is the appointment date or dates. The next. No. For the the child is scheduled.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well.. Well.

[R15228-575] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - a fragment of her own sentence, clippe | 2023-08-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You'll send it to me.
TEXT> Or Chelsea will have it in the minutes. Okay. So Chelsea strike number one under paragraph be number one  and make number two, number one. And replace the language with the appointment date or dates. Child is scheduled to receive required vaccinations, period.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And I would also like to have Ronnie's input into that as a school nurse because she was the one who brought this in. So just just to get her

[R15228-606] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh, yeah. I've got to look in compare what were the changes? This is to.
TEXT> The changes essentially are that you keep the kid in school,  right. This is sending the child home.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Okay.

[R15228-611] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: That's that's correct.
TEXT> So,  the CDC says that  there is no evidence to support that  frequent treks in school actually identifies lice reinforced or infestation on a meaningful level. This policy,  kind of gives the onus onto the parents to check for lice. And my only issue with that is that we did not  we did not entrust parents to do temperature checks during Covid. So if we are, we're not confident that parents would send their kids to school without a fever during Covid. I struggle to see that we could.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So it sounds like you. You would prefer to leave the policy that we have in place.

[R15228-621] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Groups that may have come in contact that there has been.
TEXT> No there's no notification in this policy. Yeah. There's a there's an idea that there's you will stigmatize a child if you pull them out of class. However, if you had the sniffles during Covid, we pulled kids out of class.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yeah.

[R15228-623] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Yeah.
TEXT> And and honestly, I think one way to not stigmatize is to talk about it. And to if we're talking openly about a lot of things in school that we were afraid would stigmatize kids in the past, then maybe we should talk about how, you know, life actually happens in households that have really clean heads.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Because it does mean. I can.

[R15228-631] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; chair of the capital-improvement subcom | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: And be sent back to the classroom. Yes.
TEXT> And and and and it reads in here also that  the management of particular should not, should proceed so as to not disrupt the education process. So they wanted to go to school. And but I can I can see the other point having been there and you know, my, my kids were clean, my house was clean. And we kept coming down coming home with it. And you clean everything again. You call your friends, you know, everybody checks their kids and then you wash everything down. Even the the,  the quilt on the sofa, everything. And then you do it all over again. And then some parents might say, I don't know, I feel like, you know what? I don't even want them to go to school because I don't want I don't want them to get this. But then on the other hand, it says here that it's not going to be an additional health problem. So really, it's not a health problem. It's a nuisance.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, it's. Really isn't.

[R15228-638] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Now that's and that's time consuming and it has to be done.
TEXT> Said the CDC has changed their guidelines. I'm just going to be transparent. And they're saying that you don't have to wash absolutely everything anymore. And they are no longer recommending fumigated the households. So,  there is kind of a walk back on that.  However, there still is an economic and social burden to the parents who may have to pick up their child from school and have their work life disrupted because they call the lights from somebody else. So it's not necessarily health related issue. And on top of that, I did reach out to,  a two teachers in the school. Just curious about what  I'm not going to. I said I wouldn't name names. I'm not name names.  What their perception was and,  they said it could be very disruptive. And they said that kids that,  have lice persistently, it's a distraction for them. It interferes with their learning because they're just, you know. Always scratching. Scratching. And quite frankly,  the report was that other students. No.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yeah. So how expensive is this shampoo? Does does there if they're on, you know, can their insurance companies pay for that or is it an expensive thing or is

[R15228-651] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.
TEXT> I think there's some things that we could do fairly quickly that would  eliminate a lot of anxiety. At the very least is that instead of instead of, the school nurse may check the head of student that is demonstrating symptoms that they will and I would also like the child that  has live at any time. If they have live, lice should be sent home. There doesn't need to be a no net policy anymore. There's no evidence, per the CDC, that nits end up resulting in. I mean, like, just because you have nets doesn't mean that you actually have active lice.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: That's right. That's right. They could be dead.

[R15228-654] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: So those would be two changes that I would.
TEXT> So the first change is the school nurse will check a student's head if the student is demonstrating symptoms. Yes. And then the second that you just said.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That the child will be removed from the classroom if found to have lice, that's under the. It's not that they maybe they will be removed from the class and

[R15228-655] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So the first change is the school nurse will check a student's head if the student is demonstrating symptoms. Yes. And then the second that you just said.
TEXT> That the child will be removed from the classroom if found to have lice, that's under the. It's not that they maybe they will be removed from the class and the parent will be notified to pick up the child. And then what I would like is the nurse to check the child on when they return back to school to it, to evaluate whether there's any live lice, and then ten days later, they should be retreated and the school nurse to check the head again.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Will you put that in writing? Yes. Thank you. Okay, good.

[R15228-704] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Yeah.
TEXT> So so as you know, I started an alternative program at Stevens. And one of the first things on the list is do not have kids, an alternative program in a building with their peers. That was, I think, number one on the list.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's where it's been.

[R15228-714] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Ben Nester: visioning Committee and just thinking about the historical fact that it has been housed in the program for ten years or however long it was. I that's where my mind went. You know, again, I apologize for not going through the visioning Committee first, but.
TEXT> So just a thought on that. One of the requirements of Kids in Owls was if in lieu of,  they'd either do a community service component or take a CTE class. So we had actually built that into the the original framework. I don't know whatever happened to it, but originally when we built that, they had to take a class.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's how. It would be compliant being right.

[R15228-739] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Not going.
TEXT> To be here. So in case the meeting does happen.  One thing I would like to say from my own experience is that that out of district and drop out are two very different breeds of cat and,  a dropout prevention program typically focuses around kids who who may be school phobic, who have,  issues coming to school, social issues, coming to school or out of district or kids who have significant disruptions. So they're not. These two groups are describing are mutually exclusive from each other. Yeah. There's no program for both of those groups.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, I, I mean, I you've gone down this road, frankly. You've done it. You've done it yourself. And one of the things that that I had Dave Cochrane do

[R15228-740] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto secreta | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: phobic, who have, issues coming to school, social issues, coming to school or out of district or kids who have significant disruptions. So they're not. These two groups are describing are mutually exclusive from each other. Yeah. There's no program for both of those groups.
TEXT> Yeah, I, I mean, I you've gone down this road, frankly. You've done it. You've done it yourself. And one of the things that that I had Dave Cochrane do before he got a district before he left, was identified the top five students currently out of district that are ready to transition back. And so there's largely Frank, I agree with you, but there are small pockets of kids that do transition back. And we we typically start them by entering tech courses. And they'll take two tech courses a day. And then the other half of the day they're in the placement. And then it's got to be the right profile. I think as Frank's points, it's got to be the students that are not aggressive, not violent, not, you know, not delinquent and involved in the court system. Typically it's the students that are school phobic or, or sort of low level, low level disruption, perhaps. But you I mean, I totally agree with you, Frank.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So would we like to tackle this earlier than later, wait the two weeks or schedule a special meeting? Or if it sounds.

[R15228-750] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> So, not sure why we're not thinking about,  that particular opportunity for kids who are school phobic.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I mean, partnering, partnering with with the charter school.

[R15228-755] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto secreta | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: It was Shauna and Mandy that they talked to Shauna and Mandy Bolton.
TEXT> Yeah. Mandy Bolton. Yeah. But I, I'm thinking of Heather Shepherd and, Hillary, not Hillary. What is her name? Cathy Pellerin right there. The there the two charter school representatives, and I know Chris and the guidance counselors at the high school have met with them and identified a list of students. And  I learned just this week that they're  sort of the interview and application process is going on this week, I'm told, I don't know, off the top of my head how many students at Stevens High School are are interviewing there, but I know that we provided them a list of students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Their documents says that 80 students were identified by the guidance counselors at Stevens. That's what their documents says. Yeah, yeah.

[R15228-756] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board; former Stevens High School staff m | 2023-08-02
PREV> Ben Nester: sort of the interview and application process is going on this week, I'm told, I don't know, off the top of my head how many students at Stevens High School are are interviewing there, but I know that we provided them a list of students.
TEXT> Their documents says that 80 students were identified by the guidance counselors at Stevens. That's what their documents says. Yeah, yeah.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So 80 students would be having the opportunity to go to the charter school.

[R15228-757] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Their documents says that 80 students were identified by the guidance counselors at Stevens. That's what their documents says. Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> So 80 students would be having the opportunity to go to the charter school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: 80, 80 would be a good fit for that, good fit for that program. That's what that's what their conversations with our district people.

[R15228-765] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Two weeks. Absolutely.
TEXT> And that gives him two weeks or less than three weeks to figure out what to do. Like that's the only issue that we have is that we've got kids on the line.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What you just learned about it now. So it's not our fault.

[R15228-792] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes the 8/2/2023 meeting, asks Be | 2023-08-02
PREV> Unidentified: Next two weeks..
TEXT> If, if we say no if we say if the board says nope, then they've got to figure out another way of making this happen before September, okay. Or  when we don't want to not have the program since there's so many kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right. But there are so many other options. There are other options. Well.

[R15240-18] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - convenes this special meeting (segment | 2023-08-09
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'll second.
TEXT> Second. Arlene, is there any discussion for the board? No. All in favor of extending citizens comments for agenda items to five minutes per person, say a. Motion passes and  Mr. Ben Nester is going to give a presentation on alternative programing for Stevens High School students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R15240-35] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: Originally it was ombudsman. And then we morphed it into yeah. Okay. But I think it was ten.
TEXT> 11 1011. Okay. Yeah.  So in 1011, 1112, somewhere in there. The ombudsman program was primarily online based. Program was brought in  under the grant that that Frank just mentioned, and it was focused on  serving students that were likely to drop out and, you know, become noncompliant  at the high school.  So, you know, if you fast forward, I believe ombudsman like Frank had just mentioned was then budget or budget put into the local budget. So it was taxpayer funded and it became known as Owls and was was quite successful  in the high school for a number of years.  When I started my tenure at the high school in 1516, there was a  push by administration above me to expand the Owls program to students that had disruptive and aggressive behaviors. So those students  were identified at the high school level and ultimately placed in the Owls program located here at the Tech Center. It went very poorly. As you might imagine. There was some damage to the tech center.  I was in close contact with Joel Schneider at the time. And so,  as one might expect, when you when you try to operate a program like that in a in a facility that's not equipped to serve those students, it is going to dissolve over time.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And it did. I think it existed an additional two and a half years before its dissolution, and primarily due to the disruptive behaviors and also the staffing issues, it

[R15240-39] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: of options, which we'll go into in a minute. So this this is our primary purpose, I would say our secondary purpose, as in regard to or in response to the board's goal of bringing down our district costs would be our our secondary purpose.
TEXT> If feasible, we would like to take select students that are ready to be in district and transition them back, you know, as is our obligation anyway. Potential staffing structure and funding. We we would like to have one lead teacher, 1 or 2 paraprofessionals and then that the number of professionals may be fluid depending on the number of students we have. But that I believe, will give us the support we need to effectively run a program. Very similar staff staffing structure to Owls when that was in existence. Here,  the current the  the teaching position that we would like to see use for this program is currently a budgeted position. It's a reallocation from an elementary level position. So it is funded for fiscal year 24.  And then the the paraprofessional positions. We have SR monies that we would like to see fund those SR three monies in particular. As far as the teacher goes, we believe that a general special educator is the person most equipped to serve these students because the content that the students will be receiving is  through Odyssey. Where or imagine Odyssey where as it's now called, which is an online curriculum and online online programing. And so we're looking for someone with the 1900 credential at at the state level,  the basics of the schedule.
NEXT> Ben Nester: There's an AMP session. So there's two cohorts of students. One cohort attends in the morning, one a different cohort attends in the in the afternoon. We're looking for 6

[R15240-48] Lee Malloy | Special educator newly hired for Stevens High School and the proposed  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Lee Malloy: and use a community center, learn about what is physical education, how does it help us? Because it can't. You know, mindfulness is great, but sometimes you need to go run or sometimes you need to be playing pickup basketball, with a group of people.
TEXT> It varies for each one of us, and that's what's really important.  We're also doing health education, having community members.  I actually, oddly enough, had had my physical done to come work here. And the doctor that was there said, oh my gosh, I'd love to come in and talk to your program, because I was a dropout kid and then went and like, went back and worked all this and it didn't I wasn't somebody that just walked into doing this and that. He was a tech ed kid who did construction. So he was like, you let me know if this gets up and going, and I want to come in and talk. I was like, fantastic.  So we have them to come in and talk, and a lot of it is breaking down some of the stigma. Who is it that you reach out to? How can they support you in your community if they're going to be here and stay in Claremont?  And then of course, your electives with your work environment going out to those work studies, I'd be in contact with mentors,  making sure that they're arriving, making sure everything is happening, that they're supposed to being on time, all those sort of things.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: So that's kind of in the whole piece of it, is that it would in my head, if we've got a younger classmen and they're coming up, it's really a

[R15240-50] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Lee Malloy: know, like, like Ben has said, we're just looking to find where the best spot is, where they can be the most successful. But that's kind of like, in a nutshell, what the program is. I know I just threw a lot at you guys.
TEXT> No thank you, Lee, I don't go anywhere yet. We might have more. For you, I figured. But  I think that, you know, what you're hearing from Lee is  that,  you know, if the board wills it, the program is ready to start in the fall. Target populations is certainly an area of concern. So these are sort of three different  arrangements. We could consider looking at,  neurotypical students. These are your regular Ed students currently in district,  students that are  typical students and also have educational disabilities currently in district. And then we could consider, as I mentioned before, our district students that are are ready to  dovetail with this population of students. So those are three different ways  that we can we can populate the program should the board agree or ask us to do so.  And then generally speaking, in terms of the target population, you know, we're targeting students that  are struggling  learners at risk of dropping out. There's a pattern, of course, failures.  Students that do have the ability to learn a high school diploma from a cognitive or intellectual perspective. And then students that,  you know, have a behavior profile that's devoid of things like aggression or property destruction. Those issues  we would consider students that have low level disruptive behavior, students that may refuse to complete tasks in a typical classroom setting.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And but yeah, I think that covers it in terms of the, the rough criteria, the general criteria we're looking to target. The last item on the slide is the

[R15240-67] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: We all know that dropout is. Horrible in. The district.
TEXT> Yeah. You know, and I won't I won't beat a dead horse there. But I think that's, you know, compelling enough for us to move forward with some level of programing if, you know, if, if possible, if the students are ready, if the select students are ready that are currently not a district that you know, they can come into the program and be successful, then there would be a secondary goal of reducing our district costs. Again, we're talking.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: But the primary is retention, right?

[R15240-75] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: They wouldn't be at the high school.
TEXT> Correct. There. There may be some. Again we you know, if a small group of kids, 10 to 12 students, you can really.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Where would they.

[R15240-80] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: They'd be here half a day is what you said.
TEXT> Right. So again, sort of we laid out sort of various options for when they're not in session. And you know, if I think back to the the owls program, the, the other half of the day, these students were in work placements in the community and they had to work and we were in communication. Or the directors of the program were in communication with their employers, Market Basket, Wieland, whatever. And if they were fulfilling their duties in their in their paid job, which many of them need to provide for their family.  Then we would consider that, you know, a full day for them.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So how do how do these students get there? English and math and other course requirements. If it's not through this program.

[R15240-81] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair sets t | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: were in communication with their employers, Market Basket, Wieland, whatever. And if they were fulfilling their duties in their in their paid job, which many of them need to provide for their family. Then we would consider that, you know, a full day for them.
TEXT> So how  do how do these students get there?  English and math and other course requirements. If it's not through this program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: They they would receive their, their core credits through this program by way of imagine Odyssey where.

[R15240-84] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: I don't know.
TEXT> What that is. It's an online online program that that allows students to take all of their required courses for graduation to earn a diploma.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's okay. So falling up on that. Yeah. So my understanding is that the kids that we're talking about are kind of challenged. Lack of focus, perhaps. My concern is,

[R15240-91] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: That I heard him say that it was some disruptive problems.
TEXT> Well, let me, let me let me clarify what I mean by that. So I one example of a profile of a student that may be successful in an ombudsman or an Owls program will be a student that has some level of social anxiety. And so they find themselves in the girl's bathroom more often than in the classroom,  or they,  you know, or  they or they cut school, you know, so that's, that's some level of disruption to the, the operation of the building where, you know, the child is chronically missing from class. And, and we have our, you know, assistant principals trying to locate them.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Would you. Agree that the criteria you described was more eligibility criteria and not the profile of any students who have been identified?

[R15240-92] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member - the start of her own question, 'Would  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: or they or they cut school, you know, so that's, that's some level of disruption to the, the operation of the building where, you know, the child is chronically missing from class. And, and we have our, you know, assistant principals trying to locate them.
TEXT> Would you. Agree that the criteria you described was more eligibility criteria and not the profile of any students who have been identified?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, I think that's fair. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and I mean, what I want to say too, is that, you know, our experience in Claremont and this is not

[R15240-93] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Would you. Agree that the criteria you described was more eligibility criteria and not the profile of any students who have been identified?
TEXT> Yeah, I think that's fair. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and I mean, what I want to say too, is that, you know, our experience in Claremont and this is not exclusive to Claremont, shows that,  you know, a program like this where you're where you're in a classroom with six kids, you know, where there's three adults present at that time, that there's just greater opportunity for that student to, to focus. Whereas when you're in a classroom of 25 students, there's a greater level of independence required, to, to be in a typical high school setting. So these are students that need a higher degree of facilitation.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So talk to me about, I'm trying to get a concept of if the kids are uncomfortable at the high school. How is if it were to be here, how

[R15240-112] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: So that could be anywhere. I mean, if, if, if a half day small class that could be at the high school as well as here. Because if you're talking about the structure, not the place.
TEXT> I mean, conceptually I see where you're coming from, but sort of,  experientially,  we know that students that struggle in, in a large school don't do well when they're confined to a small room in that's in that large school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Which is what they would be if they were here.

[R15240-119] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; a realtor - Sprague asks 'is it a confl | 2023-08-09
PREV> Lee Malloy: ULL. Oh, okay.
TEXT> Thank you. I just didn't get that. So I heard you talk about six students. But if when the class size increases, eventually, it probably would happen. When? How soon would that be? And how many students would you expect? Say, you know, for the following year.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah. So, I mean, I'll speak to my own experience over the years doing some program building and other in other districts as well as Claremont. The best way to

[R15240-121] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; a realtor - Sprague asks 'is it a confl | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: because we're likely going to be looking at, you know, if it were to be housed here, we'd be looking at a location change when the renovation funds are applied for. So a lot of variables that would go into that, you know, number of.
TEXT> Students okay. So that's how you got it down to six because you know okay okay. You didn't mention something about them going to work and providing for a family. Are you talking about when they're older or some of them are a little older now and have young families again?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Frank, feel free to jump in here with any of your some.

[R15240-125] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - Nester defers to him for program  | 2023-08-09
PREV> Bonnie Miles: So the young adults.
TEXT> They're still students, but they, they they may have children.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yeah.

[R15240-128] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Nester hands off with 'Mr. Kosky did | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. And so, that that in and of itself without a flexible schedule is enough to keep them from finishing. So that's another one of the target populations.
TEXT> Or students that just have to work to provide some additional income for their family, and that impacts their educational time. And so this would allow, an integration of those two things and give them a chance to be more successful.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It does give them the opportunity to, to to work, say it market basket and work until nine and then come home, unwind and not have to get up for

[R15240-130] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; a realtor - Sprague asks 'is it a confl | 2023-08-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: It does give them the opportunity to, to to work, say it market basket and work until nine and then come home, unwind and not have to get up for seven the next morning also.
TEXT> Yeah, I hadn't thought about that. They would already have. Some of them would. So if, if, if these,  students are in this program, what grade level are they coming from? I mean, if they weren't in it, they would be in grade ten or whatever, you know, whatever. I'm just trying to feel like how much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah, yeah.

[R15240-134] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Bonnie Miles: 10th graders.
TEXT> The the list that we've generated is potential students for the program, which we've not communicated anything to families. We've not done anything formal without the board's blessing. But it would be,  you know, I would say typically 11th graders. Okay. At that point.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you.

[R15240-136] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member - the chair announces 'Whitney would lik | 2023-08-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> Under the model that you're proposing, how many out of district kids do you expect to return to here?
NEXT> Unidentified: Two.

[R15240-144] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member - the chair announces 'Whitney would lik | 2023-08-09
PREV> Ben Nester: It it's possible right now to to find a room in Stevens High School and run the program. Right.
TEXT> But but what about like the perfect room, you know, like moving things around, finding, like, a room that's off, you know? Yeah. Maybe not what I'm thinking about. If the the challenge you expressed involved the the mixing of the populations between the  whatever the existing Stevens High School population and the students who would be in this program does. I don't know a lot about the the building structure. And every time I go into these schools, I get lost. So I'm wondering.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Confusing.

[R15240-147] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - calls the roll at the chair's r | 2023-08-09
PREV> Whitney Skillen: is a space within Stevens that could somehow be made to, to be to fit for this purpose. Does that make sense? Even if you can't do it today, if you had to be a little creative and just rework some things, is it possible?
TEXT> Let me answer that with a maybe. Okay, right. I know that Chris Pratt, who's got years of experience, would say that's a hard no. The high school would. There is there's something about a student going through the high school as a ninth and 10th grader and having a lot of failure and a lot of challenges and, you know, sort of a lot of negative exposures that that that make the high school setting just the physical plant of the high school somehow, what's the word I'm looking for is.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Intolerable, intolerable.

