[R9128-164] Jason Hughes | Food service director, The Abbey Group (name as self-stated; spelling  | 2017-05-31
PREV> Frank Sprague: Brownies.
TEXT> No brownies. There might be switch, which is a carbonated 100% fruit drink. So they can go and purchase those items if they have money on their account. Normally we don't have charging for all the cart items, but again, it's your school district. It's up to you what you want to have us be able to charge let students charge. Usually we let students charge a couple of lunches, but not necessarily all the cart items.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Before we go to much further because we're pushing 45 minutes. Plus, I wanted to try to keep it sort of only because we will have another bite at this

[R9128-210] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: Oh.
TEXT> There's at least six stones in the office. Okay. So now, as for our proposal that we've submitted for the Claremont School District, I did just prepare a quick one page document with some of the highlights of the proposal. And then from there, I'd really like to open it up to questions. So I wanted to highlight our strong presence in this area. We serve your neighbors in Cornish, Leinster, Newport, Canaan, Enfield, Lebanon and New Hampshire. Springfield. Windsor. Hartland. Wethersfield, Vermont. Also, you know, there are some others up in the upper Valley, such as, heartland, white River junction, that area, Hanover High School, that kind of stuff as well. So we have a very strong presence in this area. Bill Van Zant, one of the owners of this company, lives in the Upper Valley. And this  part of the New England is near and dear to his heart. We've proposed significant improvements for your program, especially in terms of the technical, logical footprint. Currently, your cafeterias don't have a point of sale system to process sales in the cafeteria line or accept online payments. We're proposing adding empower, which is a cloud based system that does all of that for you. It's a nice, secure way for payments and sales to be processed in the cafeteria line. It provides an online payment portal where parents can go on and make payments for lunches, view what their children have been eating. And that kind of stuff.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: It also two on the sauce side, if you choose to use it, even has the capability of allowing parents to file free and reduced applications online. It's cloud based,

[R9128-213] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: of this is actually Dover High School's menu. I pulled it up to the day for you so you can see you go on and click. And my connection here is not great. So it takes a second, but it pulls up the picture, pulls.
TEXT> Up all the information about the item. It allows students to be able to rate that item. So we get direct feedback on what students think of each menu item.
NEXT> Matt Pearce: Okay. And you're going to get that out are they. And we'll start here.

[R9128-217] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: She'll be able to play.
TEXT> So there's all of that plus digital signage. The high school in the middle school, if you choose to bring us in, we'll have digital signage which will display pictures of the specials of the day. It will display information on our upcoming promotional events. It will have a ticker for any school related events that administration would like us to include on there. At the elementary level, there won't be permanent digital signage, but we do bring it in for promotions like our trial by promotion when someone like Chef Matt will come in and set up a display. Rainbow carrots is one of the last ones I saw you do. He'll do a display  where he'll set up different rainbow carrots. We can have a tablet there and a screen. Kids can rate on vote on which way they light the carrots, and see the results from their school in real time as we conduct that survey. So that's kind of a brief overview of all the technology we would bring to Glenmont School District. We're also proposing significant improvements to the physical plan of the food service program. Replacing some outdated or failing equipment and also some money for higher end service where, if we had been able to cook tonight, we wanted to set up what we call our Powerball promotion, where we have different beds of greens and grains that kids can pick, and then they put their proteins on it and that kind
NEXT> Chris Farrow: of stuff. It's all done in nice. Ceramic bowls and, good presentation pieces will be adding that to the program as well. Promotional program I kind of talked about in

[R9128-247] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: Okay.
TEXT> So generally, you know, generally we're looking at, ballpark average for everybody in the 60s in the 60% range for participation. It's going to range  based on the amount of free and reduced students in a district to, because in any district, you go to your free and reduced students who qualify for a meal assistance participated a much higher rate than the full pay students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One of our challenges here in Claremont is particularly at the high school, has been, being a downtown school with, I think, 14 doors. There and places nearby. Our mantra

[R9128-252] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Cantillon: In every restaurant in Hannibal.
TEXT> But mainly the co-op, because they're right there. And, you know, really what we've been able to do that by is offering some of the same items at a lower price. Some of the action station type of stuff, like I talked about the last time we were here, you got to see our action station, where when we do that promo, kids come right through the line. They pick out their different vegetables, they pick out their meat, they pick out their sources, and we saute it right to order for them. You know, we have other promotions, like a build your own burrito bar, which for lack of a better term, is kind of exactly like Chipotle without the e-coli. We have a stuffed promotion where we do stuffed baked potatoes. These guys, they'll scoop out all the stuff, all the baked potato guts, and they just have the shell. Kids will pick out all the stuff. They'll toss it all together right there, throw it in  to the shell. And those are typically set up with, like, a hot sauce station with, Sriracha and chula and all the stuff that they're into nowadays. So that's how we kind of compete with that kind of stuff is you're exactly right. Offer them that same kind of thing.
NEXT> Matt Pearce: Thank you.

[R9128-293] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: That.
TEXT> That kind of thing. So there's those kind of opportunities in terms of employment. We have a lot of school districts where we do internship  and turn ship programs. Dover's another great example off the top of my head. They're actually students from you and H. But we have two dietetic interns from H every year who come in and assist us with that trial by program. We have several schools where, and I forget the names of the program, so we have to excuse me. I just talk about special needs programs where we'll have students from the special needs programs come in. And do you know some of the lights set up work, all of that kind of stuff? So those are some of the opportunities. Can you think of anything else off the top.
NEXT> Matt Pearce: Of your head?

[R9128-298] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Matt Pearce: So yep.
TEXT> And we actually to some of the other stuff we do along that line, when you talk about culinary program New Hampshire, I've been trying to get help, help her get it off the ground. She hasn't really got it. Vermont has a huge Junior Iron Chef program. We sponsor, teams for that. And  the hometown hotties from Brattleboro won last year. One of our sponsored teams. And New Hampshire Stacy Purslow from Cooperative Extension is trying to get the same idea off the ground, and we've been working with her on it. I was actually one of the judges for it this year, and we helped the Dover culinary program, with their recipe. And then they actually won and went on to states. And what we did that kids really enjoyed was we took their recipe and featured it at the high school and had them come down and help serve it and all of that. So there's a lot of that. And if you look through the community involvement section, some of the stuff we just talked about and more is in.
NEXT> Unidentified: There as.

[R9128-332] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - superintendent at [684] cre | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: This this.
TEXT> Would be I, I this is really good to see because I know that I was thinking about that. I wanted to ask you about the ground and go with the. I know with the high school kids want to get out with that's. But, I could see I could see students. I'd like to have some options like this, because I think there are students that, you know, they'd like to grab and they get moving, but they don't necessarily want a burger.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Just the thought just crossed my head because I'm going, forget students, I would eat this. What do you when you when you come into a school or in your

[R9128-333] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, presiding in Chair Brian Rapp's abs | 2017-05-31
PREV> Patrick Adrian: to get out with that's. But, I could see I could see students. I'd like to have some options like this, because I think there are students that, you know, they'd like to grab and they get moving, but they don't necessarily want a burger.
TEXT> Just the thought just crossed my head because I'm going, forget students, I would eat this. What do you when you when you come into a school or in your schools. What do you see for a staff participation in the meals?
NEXT> Chris Farrow: Now it goes way up. You know, because we're offering this type of stuff. We're offering salads every day, even at the elementary levels. You know. Good.

[R9128-342] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - fragments adjoining her Spe | 2017-05-31
PREV> Unidentified: So. So these would.
TEXT> Be available for the grade school children also all grades. And then is there a fruit and salad bar also. Or is it a just a general menu that that day this is what you're having and that's it.
NEXT> Chris Farrow: Typically what we do with that. Again it kind of varies from location, location and the physical setup of the location. We always offer a variety of additional fruits and

[R9128-353] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Cantillon: were already used to now, okay, the silverware goes here over in this bucket. And then by the time they got to high school, so it was over several year plan to get to that point. But Lebanon is middle silverware through the whole district.
TEXT> You know, and then in terms of recycling that kind of stuff, again, it depends on the school district and what they want to do with it. We have some school districts where recycling and composting programs. We have some schools that have to have one that I can think of in particular. I won't name the name because that wouldn't be nice. But, we want to compost them a cycle. The students want to compost and recycle, but we haven't been able to work it out with facilities to be willing to get on board with that. So it kind of runs the range again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Cool. So one of the questions.

[R9128-376] Chris Farrow | Director of Operations, Fresh Picks Cafe (Cafe Services), food service | 2017-05-31
PREV> Michelle Pierce: But what I'm saying is if they come on board, there's an automatic set up, as I understand it. Right, that.
TEXT> Yeah. So students, depending on how you structure it in different districts, do it different ways. Either students would come in and come up to the register,  punch a pin number or swipe a card, and then that cashier would hit a button and they would go on their way that yeah, yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9128-455] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-31
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So I.
TEXT> Do have a couple of questions about the food service thing. Interestingly enough, I, I browse the email and there was an interesting to note about. Kids can't have cell phones during lunch period. Therefore, an app which sounds like a wonderful idea wouldn't be useful.  Is that a policy or.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, wouldn't so much B cell phones? I think they're talking more iPads. IPad mini. What have you got, Marianne?

[R9128-463] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: for those of our kids that have like grown books or whatnot. It's a Google app. They would have access to that through. So that to me that would be an easy thing to put on all the Chromebooks that we have the kids use.
TEXT> Yeah, I would just like the we don't we don't have any standing policies, do we, that state that kids can't have cell phones? It's in at lunch.
NEXT> Unidentified: So. Policy versus practice or procedure, there's not a board policy that I'm aware of, but I don't have the building handbooks.

[R9128-472] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-05-31
PREV> Chris Irish: The process standpoint. So the subcommittee that's going to I'm assuming, talk about these two vendors once more is Michelle and Sean. Brian O'Brien.
TEXT> That's if you look at the footnote on page two of your agenda, that's the subcommittee or committee, if you will. I asked people who would be interested in serving,  and they are going to come forth with their thoughts. The goal was to be inclusive. We've heard from students. You've heard from one student tonight. If when you look at your email, we're going to be hearing from other people, I'm sure, as well. Then that information is going to come back to you as a board, and then the board will make a decision.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And I'm assuming if because I jotted down a couple of things, I wanted to reach out to you and Brian for thoughts about tonight, just that we could an

[R9170-1] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presides; addressed as 'Charlene' [265];  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Brian Rapp: of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you everybody. Good to see everyone. Please get a roll call here. Here. Thank you. We have any announcements?
TEXT> Yes, I have several. Okay. Do you have any? Okay.  As  Chair Wrap said, thank you all for being here. I know it's yet another meeting, and I believe you guys made last night. Right? We did. So. Yes. So thank you again for taking the time to be here. You should have. Everybody here should have gotten two  pieces of information. This is the most current surveillance report data with regard to lead in the state. And you'll see there's specific  information with regard to Claremont in it. If you don't have one of these and you would like one, please let me know and I'll get it to you.  And it is available online if you would, if people would like to  view it online, it is available. Excuse me. Yes, I'll get to that. Lead is still a  critical issue for this community. From a public health perspective. We were notified this morning from the state that we have yet another child who has been poisoned by lead in our city, so,  that's not good news. And all the more reason why we need to continue moving down the road that we are to ensure that we have a community wide effort to eradicate lead from our community. We have a.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Renovate, repair and paint certification, class on July 7th, and that's important for anybody who is going to be in who is in the construction business renovation business, if they

[R9170-8] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Brian Rapp: I believe the initial discussion was during the kindergarten screening, right. The valuations will happen early September. Well, during the first just during that period.
TEXT> Right after the school year starts, kindergarten in starting  until the following Monday after the students arrived. Am I correct, Corey?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yes. The the kindergarten screening starts the Tuesday after Labor Day. School starts for all students in grades one through 12 on the Tuesday after Labor Day. But kindergarten screenings

[R9170-10] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Cory LeClair: Nothing in the environment had changed. And so the doctor recommended that the younger child not be screened. So we need to be able to maneuver through those scenarios or those folks who don't have the screening done or have not had the screening done.
TEXT> What is our process?  To assist them specifically  if they're not coming in with that documentation in hand, that they have either had it done or they have a note from a doctor saying that another child in the home was free or whatever that might be. So there's some things to work out in the implementation of this particular policy.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So when you map out that implementation process, if there are any resources that you may need to help facilitate that, if you let us know, because there are many

[R9170-15] Jason Benware | Public commenter (self-ID 'Jason. Ben. Where?' [32], ward not given; l | 2017-06-22
PREV> Brian Rapp: Perfect. So we'll move on to your citizens comments. Stand here up to the lectern, please. Okay.
TEXT> I could just let us know your name and ward and. Absolutely. My name is Jason. Ben. Where?  I don't even know. Award. I live in, I live on Spruce Ave right down in the middle of town. My kids are in the bluff district. I've lived here 17 years. My wife and I have owned the same house for 17 years. We've seen a lot of things happen in this town. Not all of them positive.  I just wanted to make a couple of points. I had two points I wanted to make, and then I heard the lead testing thing in three points. All of a sudden came up. I think what you're doing, the initiative on lead is very good. However, I think that the the policy that you wrote specifically the last paragraph in that policy is very poorly written.  It said it was read three times on the thing. I see the dates on the bottom of it read this date, that date and the next date. But it appears to me that the school board members didn't read it very well. It says something. I'm going to paraphrase because I didn't memorize it, but I found it troubling. It said based upon the crime rates, drug use rates, and level of mental health, which was written poorly anyway because mental health is a good thing. Mental health issues are a bad thing, right? If you have mental health, you're you're actually good, right?
NEXT> Jason Benware: Anyway, it's evident that not enough lead testing was done or a lead screening has been done in this town. That's pretty presumptuous to believe that the reasons in the

[R9170-17] Jason Benware | Public commenter (self-ID 'Jason. Ben. Where?' [32], ward not given; l | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jason Benware: testing in Claremont would not have changed that. So even though I think what you guys are doing is very good, I think the message that you sent out in that letter was very poorly written, and I would suggest that you change that because.
TEXT> The cause and the effect are very different.  A kid who has led poisoning obviously has cognitive issues and many other things. But to say that the person who is using drugs at 20 years old is doing it because they had lead poisoning, that doesn't add up. So I would just suggest to you the school board, because I know you're all intelligent people read that and consider, is that really the message that we wanted to send to the people of this town? Because it's a flawed message. That's for the school board. That's all I have. I think what you're doing is great, I really do. And honestly, based upon attendance, I think I get a better idea as to who really feels that these meetings are important and who aren't. Now I'm going to speak to the City council because I have a problem here. You hired this fellow over here. This is Mr. McNutt, I assume. Welcome to our town. I assume since you voted him in and you thought hiring was a good idea, you thought that he was really good at his job. So he made this recommendation to you on on this paper for the budget, and you decided not to follow it.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Everybody here probably goes to a doctor now. And again, I would assume. And when you go to your doctor, I'm hoping that most of you listen to what he

[R9170-32] Jason Benware | Public commenter (self-ID 'Jason. Ben. Where?' [32], ward not given; l | 2017-06-22
PREV> Charlene Lovett: That's up to Brian. Yes.
TEXT> Jason. Ben. We're back again.  After after the large heading in bold that says lead testing required for children entering pre-kindergarten in kindergarten. The high levels of special education, crime and mental health. It should be mental health issues in Claremont suggests there has not been enough lead screening assessments of children at an early age. Do you see the am I the only one who senses the the the message that sent? There is very yes, there needs to be more screening, but maybe special education could be an issue. But crime and mental health problems, there are so many more causes of crime and mental health problems to suggest that LED testing assessments would have changed. Much of that is to me that doesn't make a lot of sense. So that's what I took issue with. Okay. Thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Rebecca.

[R9170-60] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: a minute. So people may have to shift just a hair in your seeds. And so when I, before I ever get into any content of a presentation, it feels important to me to talk to you all about why I care about this work.
TEXT> This is what I've devoted my entire life to. I travel about 50, sometimes 75% a month. I'm gone every other week at this. Actually, this is my tail end of two back to back weeks. I do have a family at home in Lexington. I have two small kids, an eight year old and a six year old. So I spent a lot of time away from my family. And so it's important anytime I leave to go do this training. I've been in violence prevention work now for 12 years that I stay connected to. Why do I do this? Why does it matter that I show up and do these presentations and engage in your community  and talk about what you can do as individuals to help keep other people safe? And there are lots and lots of different connections that bring me into this work, some professional and some personal.  And I'm actually going to talk for a couple of minutes about a personal reason why I, why I do this.  When I was 16 years old. I grew up in Paducah, Kentucky, if anybody's ever heard of it. No one a Quilt City, USA.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: Yeah, we got a quilt museum. It's kind of a big deal. So it's pretty nice. Anyway, so we, So I grew up in Paducah. When I was 16 years

[R9170-68] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: each other my senior year of high school. So I got to know them for a pretty good part of my life, which I feel thankful for. Both of my great grandmother's on both sides of my family as far back as you can go.
TEXT> We are Kentucky born and bred like I have Kentucky running in my blood and my one of my great grandmother's. She graduated from eighth grade. She got married, she had ten kids, and she lived and worked on a farm. And my other great grandmother, she graduated from sixth grade. She had 12 kids. And she also lived and worked on a farm. And for both of my great grandmother's, one of the things that was really important to them was the idea that their daughters could have a real education, a high school education, that they could get a high school diploma. And so they pushed really hard for their daughters to get to have that as an opportunity to dream big, that you could potentially move on from middle school to high school if you were willing to work really hard. And then in their lifetime, I got to hand them my college acceptance letter. And so they got to see this shift from then not barely able to get a middle school education to their great granddaughter. Being the first woman and the first person in our family to be accepted into college, we've seen our culture change in really significant ways.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: And I tell you that to illustrate that, the question that we have in front of us when it comes to these issues is not, can you change the culture?

[R9170-80] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: that this thing is as bad as I think it is. I'm actually not certain that this rises to the level of needing an intervention. Like uncertainty is a barrier. If I'm worried, I'm going to be embarrassed if I'm wrong, like that's a barrier.
TEXT> If I'm worried about how my job is going to react, if I'm worried that my boss is going to find out, or I'm confronting something that's happening within my workspace and that could compromise my own job, it can compromise my own career path. Those are barriers. And what I want you to know is that everyone has them given the right context, given the right situation, every one of us can struggle with whether or not to do something. I actually tend to be a pretty direct person. Confrontation doesn't typically scare me.  I have two small kids. If I am with my children, I care a whole lot more about their safety than I do anyone else's. And if I think me directly confronting a situation could put them at harms risk, then I'm not going to do anything. I'm going to be less likely. I'm going to try to find something else I can do, because I don't want to put them in in danger. So given the right situation, given the right context, we all have barriers. And our good news is no matter what your barriers are, you have solutions. And creatively we call these solutions the 3DS.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: So the first one is direct. So direct is what it sounds like. So I see something that concerns me and I feel comfortable going up to them and saying,

[R9170-85] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: quickly learn what's important to you based off of what you talk about, based off of where your priorities are, based off of how you react and respond to things when you see them happening in the media, or when other people bring them up.
TEXT> Like we communicate on a daily basis what our values and beliefs are. And so what we ask you to do with proactive green dots is to consider  what are you as a community and as individuals communicating around these issues. And proactive green dots can be small choices. And in fact, the smaller choices are the most effective ones because that's what actually establishes a norm. As council and school board members, I am certain you are familiar with making policies. Policy alone does not establish a norm like everyone can think of a policy that is, in effect, that most people don't actually abide by. And so the policy is good when it is backed up with behaviors that reinforce it. So if we have a zero tolerance policy, but then individuals are also actively communicating that this matters to them through the conversations they have, through talking with their children about it, through talking about it in meetings like this one, or in their church groups or in their bowling leagues, or in their book clubs and other personal things that they do that
NEXT> Kristen Parks: actively communicates that this is something that matters. When people donate to a supportive local agency, when they post something on social media. And so when they that talks about

[R9170-88] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: room, you have somebody that you love and care about, and on the other side of the room, you have somebody who might cause them harm, but in between them are 20 of us, 20 of us who would never do that, who may intersect
TEXT> with this person at some point along the way. And the only way that person gets to our loved one is if every single one of us step back and say, this is not my thing, and I will do nothing, but if five or 10 or 15 of us go, yeah, no,  I'm going to do something, I'm going to find my small thing that I can contribute. We can help reduce the likelihood that people within this community get hurt. So I want you to consider for yourself what that might be. And so I am going to ask for a small thing from you. And that's I want you to take 20s. And I want you to think of something that you would be willing to do in the next 24 hours. Maybe you haven't had a conversation with your kids in a while about what they're seeing at school, and maybe you want to kind of run through some role plays and scenarios and make sure that you know that they know how to look out for each other and that they're doing okay, and nobody's like cyberbullying anyone, etc.. So maybe what your commitment is, is you're going to have a conversation, maybe your commitment is it.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: You're going to talk more to Deb after tonight to learn more about the green Dot efforts within Claremont, to have a better understanding of how this study works, to

[R9170-105] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Charlene Lovett: And we.
TEXT> Do like our hope is we talk about in the four day model or the four day training where we train instructors. We talk about sustainability, and it's essentially planning for the inevitability of the end of the program. Like green Dot as a metaphor, won't exist forever. And so we plan intentionally for that. So it becomes a point where it's just you just look out for each other. Like one of the analogies I always think of is when I was a kid, it was not uncommon for my dad to have like a beer in the car, like when he was like taking us somewhere at night, and he was like a good man. But, you know, like there wasn't laws against it. Like it wasn't. We would be like, flying around in the back with no seatbelts on,  you know, like. So like. Laws were different, right. And like, and so now, like when I think about when I, by the time I went to college, like it was nothing. It was nothing for me to just go and take my friend's keys. If I thought they had too much to drink. And my parents would often talk about how there was a time when that was considered really rude.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: Like nobody would have thought to like, go and tell somebody you've had too much to drink. You can't get behind the wheel of a car. But now it's such

[R9170-107] Unidentified | Unidentified - audience member (man) questioning the Green Dot present | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: to train people. It just becomes, yeah, of course, like if I'm concerned about somebody I know, I have lots of different things that I can do. It's just the way things are like that's ultimately what the goal is. Thank you. Yes, sir. Sorry.
TEXT> So I understand that you're using this with adults because you're doing a essentially a research study with a sample size. And it's just I don't know if it's easier, but certainly once adults or adults, we're assuming that they're sort of already trained. Yes. Okay. So that's why you're using it. However, when we talk about things like for instance, drinking and driving, right? I think that the, the cultural norm for something like that has been ingrained into children. Correct. And it goes up through. So in my opinion, the types of things that you're teaching, although I understand for a sample study it makes sense to use adults is a much greater thing to be starting with a six year old. Yes, than a 25 year old. Yes, because it's a great idea. And I think what your idea is very good. I think that implementing it with adults who already have these norms in their head. It's very difficult when you take a six year old and you tell them it's, you know, slapping around your spouse is a bad idea if this is something that's given to them by the time. The rough for a minute, it's very.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Important that we give him the microphone.

[R9170-112] Unidentified | Unidentified - catch-all cluster mixing many voices (presenters, mayor | 2017-06-22
PREV> Kristen Parks: You're just going to have to.
TEXT> Repeat. I guess simply to. To paraphrase, I think that although I understand the sample of using adults because it's an easier method  of quantifying data at some point in time  that realistically speaking, teaching these premises is to children who then become adults is a much more effective tool. And so the norms that you talk about, such as drinking and driving or not drinking and driving,  are kids wearing or using safety seats, right? My my children will freak out if I don't put them in a safety seat. It's because these are things they're learning. And so as time goes on in their adults, it's just the way it is trying to engineer that backwards. Although it's an excellent idea and it's a great study idea, I think the other going the other direction, it would be a much more effective means. Yes, I agree.
NEXT> Kristen Parks: And so we do have we do have a high school and middle school program. Our case through five program is in development. We've piloted with some Girl Scout troops,

[R9170-113] Kristen Parks | Vice President of Programs, Green Dot, etc. (presenter; self-ID [82],  | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: on in their adults, it's just the way it is trying to engineer that backwards. Although it's an excellent idea and it's a great study idea, I think the other going the other direction, it would be a much more effective means. Yes, I agree.
TEXT> And so we do have we do have a high school and middle school program. Our case through five program is in development. We've piloted with some Girl Scout troops, but we have some more work to do on it. So it's still a ways off from even being able to be researched. But so we kind of for us, it's this parallel process of adults are still getting hurt. How do we react to that need and knowing exactly what you're saying, which is if we can essentially socialize them from the time they're small kids, then when they become adults, it's a non-issue, right? Like it's just become deeply ingrained in them. But we started at the place of most reactive. Like, we know people are getting hurt. So how do we begin to immediately address some of that and then work our way down towards these younger ages? But absolutely agree it does. Yes. Starting in is more effective long term.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I have a question. Yes, some of the communities that this has been implemented and it's and the data has shown a significant decrease in violent related events.

[R9170-141] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Just another place to get some information out there. Even if only one person looks at the Sussex, it's one more person that might see that and click on the link.
TEXT> You know, if I may, I when I think about green Dot,  I go back to my life which is which is the student. And one of the great challenges we face in our schools is bullying. Research has shown that schools that have the least amount of bullying is due to the attitude of the adults in the schools, how they their mindset, how they respond to it,  in other words, how they respond not by a policy, not by saying don't do that again or not by discipline, but rather the mindset and the attitude of the adults. And so I'm relating green dot to do the same thing. You know, we have police officers, we have an assistant principal in our school discipline, quote unquote. But it's really about us. It's how about how we respond, our attitude toward this that will grow as you, as you, as you said.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[R9170-189] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presides; 'Chair Wrap' [4], 'That's u | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: And I think showing. That.
TEXT> It's good, it's great. And it shows that kids are are learning.
NEXT> Unidentified: I mean, it's an organization called Great Schools and they possibly yep, Zillow, they populate those websites. So when people go in and look at the rating of those communities,

[R9170-215] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the screened homelessness film (filmmaker ASR | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: is crazy, I just don't want her education to be affected by it. You know, I might be here in the really counting pennies under the couch to try to scrapbook behalf of the only gopher right now. But her education will not be affected.
TEXT> You work with kids. The biggest thing, and it's definitely helpful when your teachers known and they  give you the time that you need, and they work with you through everything and they understand. It's the biggest part is definitely understanding what a child is going through and helping them through it like this is going to help silly. But being homeless, the schools are care about, you know, they try to get you what you need. All your essentials, everything like that. Schools will always be great to us like that. I don't like when other people know what I mean. Things like I know the like the district and everything and they have their eyes on me. They're going to know because they hear things. We tell them things and things like that. But students are there other classmates for the school to give me clothes or food and have it sitting in a bad name class after I just got called out from the office? It's kind of just like things like it's time to face.
NEXT> Unidentified: If you don't have any shoes, sweetie. Okay, cool. Let's go. Hang on. And I just did a complete multiple. I ended up working in time to the counselor, and

[R9170-217] Unidentified | Unidentified - voices in the screened homelessness film (filmmaker ASR | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: to run on the streets and, you know, they're choosing not to be home. And, you know, their choosing to do what they want to do and things like that. And it's like, you know, it's more than that. It's a one word or not.
TEXT> Now there are some kids that, you know, not just me and Sam. There are some kids that, yeah, they're running from home. But there's a reason why they can't be, you know, and sometimes the streets might feel a lot safer than being at home. And I, you know, I feel like that has that make it because I would love to just have a home in general. And, you know, I can feel for anyone who just doesn't feel safe at home or, you know, it doesn't feel like their home is home even though they have a home. And just want people to know that, like there is no one face of homelessness and not like the person like there are stories I've made very close. That's how I have maintained close it. Just because you dress like you're not seeing yourself like did not, doesn't mean that you're not struggling. So you just have to understand that there's like stereotyping. And just like putting a face to a name isn't just it's dumb because it's not true.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so that, film certainly had some landmarks in our community that I'm guessing, you all recognized as you watched it. Some of those students, some of those families are

[R9170-223] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: have lived here for a long time, no, I was involved with the city for many, many years. I saw the efforts that were made to attract business. I saw the, the efforts that were made to try and start give new companies a start.
TEXT> And yet  I cannot remember once at a council meeting, not once. Anyone saying. And, Mr. Manager, I'm sorry to say this. Where are you? There you are. Right. I don't remember any councilman or council person ever saying. Mr. Manager, tell me what the childhood poverty rate is and six months later saying what progress have we made? Or two years later saying, what have we done? It just has never occurred. And yet it is  from our downtown. It has expanded to to  consume a larger and larger portion of what we see on a daily basis. And what we see on a daily basis is kids who struggle. And sadly, by the time they get into my court, that means that the state has brought an abuse and neglect petition, and that means that there is a strong likelihood that the child is going to be removed from the house. There may be. There are many ways that we create homelessness. And Corey and I will talk a little bit about that, but I really, you know, I, I accept the a large portion of the blame for not recognizing the significance and the seriousness of little kids who don't have enough to eat, kids who have never had anyone read a book to them.
NEXT> Jack: And it's it takes its toll. It is it is a dehumanizing thing, as those little kids said, to grow up knowing when you go to school, you've got to

[R9170-233] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed 'Corey' [20] and 'miss LeCl | 2017-06-22
PREV> Jack: really does go out of their way to make sure that there's some kind of continuity in a child's life. But the thought that this community of 13,000 people could have several hundred children living in an out of home placement is frightening to me.
TEXT> So we've had more parental deaths this year than we've had. In the past. Since you mentioned the opioid epidemic, and that is definitely having an impact on the schools. Some data that's not tracked in any clean form. So we don't have it yet. We try to wrap it up after July 1st. Our the number of students that we have who have dealt with at least one or more of their parents or guardians being incarcerated, last year's calculation was around 10% of our population in our schools who have had one or more parents incarcerated, the number of students removed from their home. So this is something that's a challenge to track, because  when we have Kim care kids placed with folks who are not necessarily their legal parent or guardian, but they are still with a family member that doesn't always come through to us as a data point. So it's challenging for us to track or those who are in foster care because we had a mid-year transition with that, legal categorization.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: That's a challenge for us to track as well. So, those types of, of data points, there's no systematic process for tracking that across our district or the state. So

[R9170-253] Unidentified | Unidentified - council-side speaker responding to the mayor's plan [57 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: If you're on the outside, you need to understand the inside of the the belly of it. Several months ago, there was an. Article. In the. Local paper. And it was. About. The children in our school system and how many of the children. Were.
TEXT> In poverty level. And I was absolutely shocked. I had no idea.  And, that's my fault that I didn't know. But being  the person that I am, I right away started reaching out to different people that I knew  were involved with  homeless and children in trouble to see how I could help. And that's because of the link of the communication of that article. And that's one person,  and that's how I see this going, through the council. I see it as a strategic plan. Actually, I had written almost by words of what you said, and, I think we can be successful. I think we have to be. And I think it, you know, I was just thinking, how did the teachers at kindergarten level recognize a child that might need help? There's going to be steps there that they're well educated in. In defining that, I'd like to know what those steps are so I can be looking to help. And I think the common person, if they knew and we're a of a person that wanted to have a green dot going forward, then I think that's a pretty good educational point. So thank you for bringing this all to the point. Oh,  sorry, counselor.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Nicole.

[R9170-262] Jack | Judge of the local court, guest presenter (addressed 'judge' [312], [4 | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: We talked we talked about the poverty.
TEXT> I keep in mind there. Are. Many folks, if not most are working poor. When Walmart patted itself on the back for paying $10 an hour. I have people who come into my court on a regular basis with both parties working, making $10 an hour, absolutely incapable of paying $1,400 a month rent for two bedroom apartment that no one in this room would live in. So these are not people who are lazy and don't want to work. There are lots of working poor who really do want to break that cycle,  but you can't do it on $10 an hour. But you might be able to if early on you have assistance. So you're not having to go to school meetings because your children aren't behaving and you're worrying about having to go take your children to counseling  and all the other things that go along with poverty.
NEXT> Unidentified: Melanie, you wanted to say something? Yeah, I.

[R9170-271] Allen Damren | Claremont City Councilor (recognized 'Councilor Damron' [615]) | 2017-06-22
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> I remember vividly in the late 1990s, I started in the district in 1995. I remember very vividly discussing some of the statistics that Corey was talking about. They aren't new. I don't remember discussing poverty, but I remember discussing a whole bunch of the other statistics and programs, such as parents, as Teachers, schools of the 21st century. At the middle school, there was a program sponsored by a teacher dealing with children of incarcerated parents. And on and on we go. Over time, those programs went away because no one had really talked about and put into concrete terms. Fine. After the grant runs out or after the initial funding from Joe Blow expires, how do we sustain it in the sustainability piece is what caused everything to drop off the plate at the end.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Measuring success.

[R9171-13] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. The questions for the superintendent. Thank you for that. What was the percentages on the vaccinations?
TEXT> 98.9 excuse me? Your schools percentage of up to date students 98.91. State of New Hampshire's percentage. Up to date students 97.29.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Fantastic.

[R9171-22] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Paula Fitzgerald: contest. So our sixth graders participate in, this contest. And so whoever wins their piece of artwork becomes our cover. So I updated who that student is this year. And so just stop me if you have any questions, okay? About anything that I'm saying.
TEXT> Page two. Late to school. We reworded that a little bit.  If students are not in their advisory by 745, then they are considered tardy. If you are tardy without a note from a parent or guardian and a legitimate reason, you will be automatically assigned an after school detention for the next school day. So that was just reworded slightly on page for the nurse sent me the information  according to school board policy with regard to prescribed medication and non prescribed medication and those exceptions. And then on page 12 we just added a line. All bags, purses totes etc. must be stored in student lockers. And that is because if you have a room of 25 with 25 students and you have 25 backpacks, it's kind of hard to walk around. So all those are kept in their lockers. We're trying to be a little more explicit. And then on page 24, our schedule is updated. And on page 26 the dates are updated for  report cards and  progress reports. Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Typo for four three there.

[R9171-31] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Frank' [47], [410], [416]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Paula Fitzgerald: Thank you. Thank you very much. I will make note of that.
TEXT> How many? How many students are in the middle school now?
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: I have about 389. I expect some fluctuation over the summer. I had a family in today and they're enrolling a student. Any other questions? Comments?

[R9171-32] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: How many? How many students are in the middle school now?
TEXT> I have about 389. I expect some fluctuation over the summer.  I had a family in today and they're enrolling a student. Any other questions? Comments?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I don't know the difference between the schools, but for under prescribed medication. No more than a one month supply of medication should be kept. Is that going to how

[R9171-33] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll as 'Brian Rath' [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Paula Fitzgerald: I have about 389. I expect some fluctuation over the summer. I had a family in today and they're enrolling a student. Any other questions? Comments?
TEXT> I don't know the difference between the schools, but  for under prescribed medication. No more than a one month supply of medication should be kept.  Is that going to how does that affect kids that have inhalers? Is it would that affect. It just like a rescue inhaler that.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: So I was not part of Middleton. Were you part of that change? I was not part of that.

[R9171-37] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> And Hale is clearly his medication. And in elementary schools, children, unless the doctor has permission, has granted permission, can't carry it around.  It's different with the older students. But it it's a that is not.  But that is not in relation to pills but  medication. And Hill is does have a expiration date.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: Date. Yeah. And EpiPens do as well.

[R9171-51] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: I'm good if you want to go back.
TEXT> Sure.  I just like to retrace. So Corey LeClaire doesn't know this, but I complimented her publicly a few minutes ago when when I was informed that she would be a little late because of her being a parent and helping her children with her extracurricular activities, and I did. Corey let the whole community know, which will be broadcast on CCTV for over a month, that you have your priorities correct. And that being said, Corey LeClaire is going to make a presentation.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Thank you. Sorry. Yes, I was down at the soccer field.

[R9171-58] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: 70% of our students necessarily on grade level or proficient, but they have met the target growth for that year. Reading 80% of our kids in grades K through five. And you'll see up here that the percentages vary a little bit by grade level.
TEXT> With the assessment. There is expected growth by grade level. And so that's how we set those goals. Okay. So you'll see up here on the screen and it will be difficult for you to see. But this is on our website also. So it's available for anyone.  At the end of year growth target starts at 30 in grade one. For math. And it starts at 46 for grade one in reading. So that's saying a student the the end of year growth target is from the beginning of the year to the end of the year. They will grow 30 points in I ready or they will grow 46 points in. I read on reading.  As you see, the ages increase down to grades seven, eight, nine through 12. The amount of growth expected is decreased, and part of that is due with the type of content that they're working on. And part of that is due to how we are able to measure their performance and their growth. And so as the ages decrease, you'll see lower growth targets.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9171-71] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Dan: we're getting really ready to go deeper with this. Some of the initial findings of just kind of digging a little deeper on the reading side, because those numbers were concerning to us, as we see some real gaps in phonics, at the elementary level.
TEXT> And that's going up through, all the way up through our fifth graders. And so now what we're doing is we're kind of doubling back, looking at our reading program, trying to understand where is that phonics instruction being delivered, where does it taper off? How do we know? And it's what's interesting is we have a lot of kids who can read and pull words off a page. But when they're asked to make the soft g sound or when they have to, when they're introduced to either a nonsense word environment or a word that they've never seen before, they don't have some of those attacks skills to be able then to make that word meaningful for them. So that's one of the things that we are doubling back on to look at. So the the other thing is culturally for our first graders,  receiving instruction opportunities,  delivered through technology. Again, that is not a cultural  experience that most of them have had. So again, we have a lot of transitioning, not just the new tool, but again, our culture of how we learn. So there's a lot of new things being introduced to kids in a lot of different ways.
NEXT> Dan: And, the other thing is with our data that's really kind of fascinating is starting to look at trend lines of how many kids grew more than a year but

[R9171-72] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Dan: experience that most of them have had. So again, we have a lot of transitioning, not just the new tool, but again, our culture of how we learn. So there's a lot of new things being introduced to kids in a lot of different ways.
TEXT> And,  the other thing is with our data that's really kind of fascinating is starting to look at trend lines of how many kids grew more than a year but are not yet at grade level. We have a significant number of kids who showed more than a year's worth of growth at the elementary level, but they're still would not be considered  on grade level or proficient. We're also learning about motivation for kids who are doing these, and we have some of our high fliers who  showed  very little growth.  At the end of the year, we are testing windows started in late May, went to early June. We've also discovered that kids really need to be monitored when they're  on this tool.  That was something that I think maybe we made an assumption that they're going to get locked in and do the work and here and follow the directions on there. That we found that there are a lot of children who get there and make the first click. And, you know, we're starting to look around and see what's going on in the classroom. Check out what's going on. So,  we have a lot of, I really has provided us with a lot of schools that have used this tool.
NEXT> Dan: They have all kinds of really neat data to show growth in a lot of different places. We've seen we just started into this, and there are some places where

[R9171-74] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Frank' [47], [410], [416]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Dan: lot for us to learn. And a lot of that, I think, is about the culture of how we do business and what we're doing at the elementary level. I don't know if you have any questions or comments on that at all. Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> One of the things I noticed was the significance between the really young kids. And as they get up toward fifth grade, it tapers off in my own my own experience. There is psychologists explain, kids, as in kindergarten, first grade, there's a window that's wide open, and all the water you throw at that window goes through the window. And so kids are really able to absorb, because that window is wide open. And every year that window closes a little bit and you can throw the same amount of water at it, but only so much of it goes through. And then after third grade, that window has closed significantly. And so from looking at the data, I mean, I think you can you can beat yourself up over we should have done this and could have done that. But a lot of it, I think, is, is, is that the capacity to absorb new opportunity diminishes every, every year. As far as kids being able to absorb all that you're throwing at them. So if there's a goal, I think it would be to try to find those older kids. And as you look through the data and they get to the high school, obviously that window continues to close.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: When you get into ninth and 10th, it's even a smaller gap. So I think from my point of view, the gap the challenge becomes finding those ways to address

[R9171-76] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: ways to address the learning gaps and those kids, when it really does take some creativity and things that maybe are a little bit different than we've done in the past, that don't work with the younger kids because of the younger kids capacity. Sure.
TEXT> So I think there's a couple of things to keep in mind. One is,  at age nine, the brain chart starts shedding.  And basically I think it's neurons. And I'm not a narrow scientist, so I don't know the exact terms, but it starts shedding that those which are unused. And so you're right in terms of like the window starts to close a little bit. I think there's also some programs and some  more reliable curriculum that we've been able to put in place in the last two years, three years. And so you're seeing in our earlier kids, potentially the results of a more clearly articulated curriculum and a better foundation. So what will be interesting to watch and look for is, as our first and second graders move up  to three, four years from now, are we still seeing that same trend line in fourth and fifth grade as we're seeing today, or does that look different? So it's there's probably other factors as well that we're not yet identifying, but certainly there's different reasons why the data looks different at different grade levels.
NEXT> Dan: I don't want to.

[R9171-89] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: raised their points over a hundred points. And they're just kids that. Oh, it's just neat that they're they're taking an interest in it and they understand what it's about. And it's sort of like almost like a competition to see what they can do.
TEXT> Well, we described it as a  as a runners runner's marathon. When you see all those people at the start  of that race, they're all starting with their finger on their watch. They're really not competing against the people next to them. They're competing against what they know is their personal best. And that's how we framed it at Maple Avenue. You know your scores. It's time for you to try to beat your personal best. It doesn't matter if someone finishes higher than you or whatever. Well, somebody mentioned a quick comment and I'll I'll get off the stage. What is interesting though is that they average numbers. So when you have a child who made 134 points worth of growth, and let's say someone made zero growth, let's go 140. To make the math easy, it will show that that class averaged 70 points of growth. And it brings us full circle into that corundum about reporting on grades and using averaging. Right. Because we certainly know if a kid scored 140 points more in growth and someone showed zero points more of growth, it's certainly not a  fair representation to say that the average alarming mathematically, it's fair to say the average is 70, but we know that that's really not the right story to put out there. Patrick.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So I know, I know, we talk a lot about growth and we put numbers out. I guess I don't really understand what the numbers mean, because I guess I'm

[R9171-95] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: mean. One last question, because I had one. So are there. What about issues between where what they're learning on I ready and I guess. Whether that kind of mat matches or aligns the teacher the kind of the what they're learning in the classroom.
TEXT> So that's part of what we are learning about. So teachers have the ability to, direct the pathway of lessons that the students get there. But we I'll be honest, we didn't explore that a lot this year. Again, these are some of the learnings that we have. So we can,  have those compliment each other. I will be I'm sure that at times they weren't complementing each other this year, probably more times than not.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, that's sort of. And they shouldn't necessarily, because we're trying to close that gap at a lower level. So we wouldn't necessarily have everything in line. We need to

[R9171-98] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Right now.
TEXT> Doing audience. What was just said is that the idea is that you don't necessarily always want what they're learning, and to be directly aligned to what you're learning in the classroom, because there's classroom level on grade level learning, and there's that gap that they that an individual child has that needs to be made up.  Lee, do you want to speak to how you handle it in your classroom? Because since we have a teacher here, why not talk to a teacher quickly?
NEXT> Unidentified: I have one question.

[R9171-102] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: it's not an issue at all. It complements everything we're doing, and I just felt like more prepared them for the smarter balance testing. It's pretty rigorous. And the gains that they made were incredible, and I felt like they were better prepared for testing.
TEXT> So there's multiple different types of lessons. There's the lessons that based on how they perform in the assessment, the computer assigns, there's lessons that teachers can directly assign. And then there's lessons that teachers can teach, either because they're looking at that data at the individual student level and understanding where the gaps are, or they are using the assessment data, and the software tells them, you know, gives them ideas for lessons that they can use with students. Michelle, a question.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Yeah. So I heard you say at. Maple Avenue, you do in a certain way. Is it just me? Will you do it this way and then bluffs one way

[R9171-103] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: because they're looking at that data at the individual student level and understanding where the gaps are, or they are using the assessment data, and the software tells them, you know, gives them ideas for lessons that they can use with students. Michelle, a question.
TEXT> Yeah. So I heard you say  at. Maple Avenue, you do in a certain way. Is it just me? Will you do it this way and then bluffs one way and then designers another? Or are the principals all together working together to implement I ready? For example, if a child was  in bluff and moved to desired wood,  would that change up how they're being taught in this I ready program? Are you following? I guess I guess what I'm asking is are you working community as as the principals under one umbrella of I ready or do you all individually make your own game plans.
NEXT> Dan: So I ready as I ready no matter where you go. So that's that's the constant. What we are all trying to experiment with is how to get to those

[R9171-104] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: up how they're being taught in this I ready program? Are you following? I guess I guess what I'm asking is are you working community as as the principals under one umbrella of I ready or do you all individually make your own game plans.
TEXT> So I ready as I ready no matter where you go. So that's that's the constant. What we are all trying to experiment with is how to get to those time targets, that 90 minute target. So we've I think all three schools we've been experimenting. So in some of our classrooms we have six Chromebooks. And teachers are using it as a rotation station. And every kid is getting to that other places. They do it as a full lab and they bring the whole class in, and the whole class is doing it for 45 minutes. So, you know, so there so I mean, our implementation looks a little different, but the expectation is the same for everybody. And if a child moved from one school to another, they would still the I ready program is the I ready program.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The expectations and the targets are the same. The delivery may vary by classroom, by grade level, by building depending on what works best for that classroom, that grade level,

[R9171-105] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Dan: minutes. So, you know, so there so I mean, our implementation looks a little different, but the expectation is the same for everybody. And if a child moved from one school to another, they would still the I ready program is the I ready program.
TEXT> The expectations and the targets are the same. The delivery may vary by classroom, by grade level, by building depending on what works best for that classroom, that grade level, that building. So for kindergarten nurse, for instance, or grade one is our younger kids, sometimes it works better to do the whole class together at one time. Sometimes it works better to use it in a small group setting. During another block where there might be a teacher working with four kids, there might be four kids on I ready. There might be a pair working with four kids. It depends on the individual classroom and grade level. It looks different at the middle school. It looks different at the high school as well.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I guess what I was trying to get at. Excuse me. Sorry, is is art. So for example, the three middle school principals all coordinating together. Yeah, that's what I

[R9171-113] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [185], [431]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Of.
TEXT> I thought I thought Dan was saying that one student will get 140 something, and then the other student will get zero. And then you put the average together in the classroom.
NEXT> Dan: We can see we can see all kinds of levels of data. So we can look at every individual student, but we can also look at a classroom. Yeah. When

[R9171-114] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I thought I thought Dan was saying that one student will get 140 something, and then the other student will get zero. And then you put the average together in the classroom.
TEXT> We can see we can see all kinds of levels of data. So we can look at every individual student, but we can also look at a classroom. Yeah. When you get to the classroom, that's an average score. When you go to a grade level, it's the average of the three classrooms. When we look at it across the elementary.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: My question is, what does the average of your classroom score tell you? Like how do you.

[R9171-124] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Frank' [47], [410], [416]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Did you have something or I did.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. Just going along with what you were just talking about. If we compare looking at some growth using your example, the 141 40 and the zero again,  I know it's no secret that I'm a fan of showing growth as a measure of our district as opposed to a single snapshot kneecap. And if you take the same data with kneecap, that means nobody made it in kneecap. So it looks like the whole school there was just fail because of a whip.  And the whole school didn't make it because of that, as opposed to the way you just described it, then at least the growth,  some growth is acknowledged in that. So from my point of view, when I'm looking to say, okay, are we making progress? What's positive about this? Okay, so one kid made, 141 kid made zero. That's still a net of 70, right? Where that same data in kneecap.
NEXT> Dan: Would be zero.

[R9171-129] Dan | Elementary school principal, apparently Maple Avenue per [174] (first  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. So I just.
TEXT> So we're using the  iceberg,  you know, metaphor that 80% of the iceberg is actually underneath water. What you see is about 20% represents 20%. And if you think about the water line as proficiency, where we want to see on the knee cap, we're building that 80% underneath. And we're just waiting to that breakthrough point. I ready also provides a predictor tool of where your kids score and if they will be proficient  on,  smarter balance. I mean, we haven't begun to look at that yet. And we don't have our smarter balance. We don't have the smarter balanced data yet to look at either. So, I mean, that'll be another thing to start to see are these data points on converging and telling this the same story.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Look forward to seeing that.

[R9171-140] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: It's can log on to the instructional tool from home as well. So it's something that they could.
TEXT> Is there something you can carry on at home to like curriculum you can do at home with the child?
NEXT> Unidentified: Also gestures.

[R9171-142] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Also gestures.
TEXT> In the parent report of what to work on with your child and how to help your child.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So so there is like extra stuff that they could do at home.

[R9171-156] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: I did two minutes.
TEXT> Two minutes. So I'll. Try to get through this. So similar story to the elementary school. We are still really in the beginning stages of digging through our data, but there were a few things that came up to us, so. Or came out, kind of right at the surface that made us really scratch our heads and say, how can we do this better? Three areas for us, the first one being test administration. So there were some nuances. There were some things about that we weren't aware of because this was our first year. So, for example, one of our teachers discovered that a student could be on YouTube listening to music, while when they were supposed to be listening to the test. So one of the ways we're responding to that is  going forward next year, we will be administering the test in smaller groups,  and we're creating kind of a cheat sheet for our teachers who who will be proctoring the test so they know exactly what to look for  active proctoring as they're walking around, so that we don't have any YouTubers who are listening to their music while taking the test, because it made us question how many other students were able to do this.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: And and so then it impacts the validity of our scores. So that was one of the the areas test administration, also increasing the conversations that we're having with our

[R9171-158] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Paula Fitzgerald: forward next year we're looking at are really our neediest kids being on that online component. The kids who are on grade level, some of them may need meat, may need it to some degree. Our kids who are above grade level won't need it.
TEXT> We need to do other things for them.  So that in turn ties into our wind block, which is our what I need block. So,  we are looking at looking at those students who are significantly below grade level, and not all of them are are identified students who have disabilities. We have a variety of kids who are off level for a variety of reasons. So really looking at how we're grouping them during that wind time and, we're increasing the length of that block to 60 minutes to ensure that our neediest kids are getting that 45 minutes per week. That is recommended in reading and in math. I just really condensed this. So so I don't know if you have any questions about that, about anything that I've said.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: How long do kids stay on it? Like when they're working in I ready? What's the block of time that they're on at like ten minutes, 15 minutes.

[R9171-159] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [185], [431]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Paula Fitzgerald: 60 minutes to ensure that our neediest kids are getting that 45 minutes per week. That is recommended in reading and in math. I just really condensed this. So so I don't know if you have any questions about that, about anything that I've said.
TEXT> How long do kids stay on it? Like when they're working in I ready? What's the block of time that they're on at like ten minutes, 15 minutes.
NEXT> Paula Fitzgerald: So so we've been alternating so about 40 minutes.

[R9171-166] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Oh. Oh, yeah.
TEXT> I'll take a stab at that. So it if a student gets something right, then it goes, it progresses to a harder question. If they get something wrong, it goes back. So the charts that I've seen, it's kind of they're asking a harder and easier or harder and easier. So then they they develop, they go along the line and get at that end point. Yes. Does that make.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The endpoint is where they're getting 50% of the questions correct and 50% wrong. That's considered their zone approximate development. And so they continue to get harder and harder questions

[R9171-168] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Frank' [47], [410], [416]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: The endpoint is where they're getting 50% of the questions correct and 50% wrong. That's considered their zone approximate development. And so they continue to get harder and harder questions until it's the 5050 or easier and easier questions until it's the 5050.
TEXT> So kids don't give up because it takes a while to get to a frustration point.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right? Yes. Yeah. Okay.

[R9171-175] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Patrick' [150]; 'Patrick's  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> That's right. Yes. To follow up on that question, I think how how are we are teachers getting I think the time that it would really I think it requires to kind of use some of the potential, because I, I am aware and I'm not aware of I  it, I haven't worked with I already by familiar with other programs where you can kind of you can select the programs for students and you can analyze individually what the students need, kind of all that diagnostics. But I guess I just listening to it, I mean, it  sounds pretty overwhelming to, to do to be able to and. For how, you know, how or do teachers really have the time to be able to kind of use to do all that analysis and problem solving, using the already the way that it's kind of sold to us.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9171-182] Paula Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintendent [ | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> I just wanted to add, as they get into it, into the program and they're playing with the reports and they're looking at  what what it can do  there, they're getting more excited. So on the the day after the last student day, the teacher work day, I had a teacher  running down the hall saying, oh my gosh, look, I just discovered  that this, that it can produce this kind of report and look how helpful this will be. So,  so, like you're saying, the more familiar they become, the it'll just get better.  And I'm really optimistic.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: It sounds everything that, you know, I hear it sounds like I think it sounds like a great program and and definitely like leagues ahead of a lot of the

[R9171-194] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Rebecca' [185], [431]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: maybe because the children don't understand the testing, you know, and you're saying, how can we maybe we need to be a little bit more public, bring it out, back out on the board and say, this is I ready again and and describe it.
TEXT> Super fast. I just wanted to give a plug. My kids love it. Just so you know. And I as a parent love it. I love getting the information. It's not a pain in the butt to read. It's organized visually. It's, Love it. That's it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Thank you.

[R9171-229] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: better use it in flex? How can we plan flex in a way in which we are able to take out students who show a need for remediation by their I ready scores and just work with them? And who's going to do that work?
TEXT> Because right now flexes for every single subject that a student has is only four days a week. It's 40 minutes a day. So if that's students really showing a need in math or reading, how can we funnel them into to getting that I ready help during flex. So that's something we're going to work on for next year.  And how do we offer intervention to our non identified students? This year, our special educators were able to work with our identified students working with I ready directly, but that's that intermediary RTI segment of our population that we that mid-level intervention that we have to figure out how we can we can do a better job with that. So,
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I heard you say that you're going to do a before and after. I thought the I ready was had three data points.

[R9171-241] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Patrick' [150]; 'Patrick's  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: sit down and dig drill down to those depths, it's going it has the capability of showing us exactly what each and every student needs to be working on, where they are, what they need to do. It's it's fantastic tool. Thank you. Welcome, doctor.
TEXT> Is this may be two too soon to kind of answer but just wondering what what estimate of students how many students do we have roughly who need I guess I I guess more heavier intervention for like reading and math. Like not necessarily not not necessarily for say, a student needing help with with geometry, but students that really kind of need the more foundational math skills and reading skills. I think in order to do the program studies.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I can get that information, I don't have that information off the top of my head. I, the way those reports are pulled are by building. And I'm going

[R9171-244] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (referred to as 'Pat' [101], [323]; pre | 2017-06-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I guess I was interested in kind of knowing more about how during flex at Stevens, how we're intervention for. I think that's groups whether I didn't know whether it was.
TEXT> And we may. Find that. This is not going to be enough, you know, and that we have to build some other time into student schedules to, to address that, you know,
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Do they have to do they meet with that, their teacher or do they, do they have other places where they can go for.

[R9171-250] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Hey, Mike, you got somethin | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah. Hey, Mike, you got something, thought.
TEXT> Or suggestion for the program in general?  The possibility of using it for these gaps where we know kids lose some is summer, winter vacation, things like that. So I guess for the future, maybe looking at a summer challenge or some sort of something like that, that as you get more into the program.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: A good idea. That's great.

[R9171-257] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced 'Corey LeClaire is going t | 2017-06-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: Two minutes.
TEXT> No more than two minutes. Because I think the visual of representation. Those of you who are home can't hear me, but. Okay, so if you just look at this visually, fall is on the left. Spring is on the right. The red are those students who are at or above grade level. The red are above grade level. The blue are at grade level. The green are below grade level. So when we're thinking about intervention and those who are in most need for intervention, those would be your kids in green. So just visually looking at this, you can see for this is one of our elementary schools because again I can't pull it for all three schools together. It's by individual building for this particular report.  So that's one school  falling left. Red is good. Remember this is reading. And another the first was math. This is reading in the same school. This is math. And the second school school. Be the big jump from  the fall to the spring reading fall to spring and school B  and the last one is school C  fall on the left, spring on the right. Remember, red is good. And readings. We'll see. So just think that's a nice visual representation that we are moving kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Kids are growing. We may not be deemed proficient in all areas yet or our, our kids. That might not be, but we are certainly moving kids and we're we're

[R9171-335] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Patrick' [150]; 'Patrick's  | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> I guess I want to see what it was. You must have seen something like kids.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Kids were involved. Some of the questions that were asked of Cafe Services staff. It didn't seem to be the time to be able to get the kids involved or

[R9171-337] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: too cumbersome. Whereas Abby Group really makes that effort to to have the kids be involved in, in the food service plan, whether it's helping to prepare food or or or whatever, you know, they really help them. They let kids take ownership of it.
TEXT> They put them on shelves, hats and put them in and let them be a part of it. However, I can answer another question for you. One young lady stated from one of the community members that she wished she could have had more because her portion she felt hungry still. So that's one child and one fresh pix area. Feeling not satisfied with processed foods. Now we're looking at the IB group, which I'm sure you can answer to because you want.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[R9171-346] Unidentified | Unidentified - teacher who speaks on i-Ready [168-170] and as a food s | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: It was unanimous to recommend Abby Group.
TEXT> And I believe when we first started this process, it wasn't unanimous. It wasn't it wasn't so. So that's a huge point to the other point is as of I think Tuesday night, maybe Cornish had  was not satisfied with the quality of fresh picks so that that's why they switched to Abby Group. And then also I think as committee members, if you have not gone to the schools yourselves and you have not checked out the food service at the elementary level and at the high school and middle school level, then it's hard to have. It's hard to make a really good decision, an educated decision. And the other piece is with fresh picks. There was a huge difference between the lunch service there at the elementary level and the lunch service at the high school at the elementary level. The Renee Flint had gone one day and I had gone another day, and the only difference was they weren't served chips. So it was basically the same as what we're given now.  And I understand that as high school students, you know, they want more choices. And I we understand that. But as a committee, we also discuss the fact that it is so important when you're younger. Those are formative years, and that's when you should be able to experience a lot of these other,  salad bar and, you know, whatever, whatever they offer.
NEXT> Unidentified: So there were there were many reasons why we chose Abby Group over fresh picks, but I think to I understand finances is important, but I think to only focus

[R9171-485] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Chris Irish: Can I.
TEXT> Think of that information? I'd like to talk about something else also, before we leave. I'd like to bring back to the table the lace policy, and I'd like to bring that back and talk about what we can do to help the school and the parents and children of the lace issues.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That can be an agenda for another meeting.

[R9171-510] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: That's it. So we've got we've got some policies, up for first read.
TEXT> Yes. There are four policies of the first three policies are from the New Hampshire School Board Association. Two of the three quorum and board member. Conflict of interest or result of recent legislation. I believe the rules of order comes from school districts seeking clarity from the New Hampshire School Board Association regarding the protocol of the school board meeting. That is my assumption. There's no legislative change. The biggest one is FAA meal charging. Now, that comes from, federal law that goes into effect July 1st. We're okay because we'll be long prepared for that. I just want to share one thing with you, though. The wording in this policy comes from New Hampshire School Board Association. Some of it is negotiable. Some of it is non-negotiable. I'm getting ahead of myself. The also what you have here, but I just want to make that clear. And one of the things that's non-negotiable. What is non non-negotiable or not negotiable is, is that a child will not receive a meal and that a child. And so you that is not negotiable if a child does not have money. And in fact I will tell you the Claremont School District has been doing this for years. We don't stigmatize.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We don't have the child stand out. We don't. The child does receive a meal, and in fact, it's a meal comparable to what is being served. But there is

[R9171-511] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [15-22]) | 2017-06-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a child will not receive a meal and that a child. And so you that is not negotiable if a child does not have money. And in fact I will tell you the Claremont School District has been doing this for years. We don't stigmatize.
TEXT> We don't have the child stand out. We don't. The child does receive a meal, and in fact, it's a meal comparable to what is being served.  But there is also, A example of one school district's protocol regarding with me as I get this, regarding the charging. So you have two things ahead of you here. One is this quite lengthy policy that deals with, meal charging, and the second one deals with one example of a meal charging protocol. And again, that's a protocol that we need to have in place. So parents are aware.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I have a question I thought with choosing the IB group that a lot of that is going to be. Run by the IV group. That was part of

[R9171-657] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle' [172], [293], [43 | 2017-06-21
PREV> Unidentified: Quite cumbersome. Well.
TEXT> I think that I think especially in our frame of where we're at in our community city and otherwise, that we make sure that no child gets left out of anything, period.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah. We'd have to do the second read. Anyway.

[R9248-33] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: Second. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Superintendents. Report.
TEXT> Thank you. Good evening. Great. With this agenda has 116 pages. I don't think I've ever put out an agenda so thick. A lot of reading material. Certainly we're not going to go through 116 pages, but,  in front of you is a,  a letter that's going home to the parents and guardians considering home schooling. I put this in front of you. It's just so you are aware of the current home school requirements.  We follow  the state statute.  Years ago, I was a building principal I had to make  for home visits a year for each homeschooled student. The law has now changed. That is not  required. There is some documentation on the parents point of view.  But parents have the right to decide how their son or daughter will be educated. They don't have the right to decide if they will be educated, but how they will be educated is there, right? And so I just wanted to keep you up to date with  how you're doing business with our home school students, and certainly we support them. They are residents of Clermont. We support them every way we can,  and they are entitled to certain opportunities, such as extracurricular participation or even a course  such as a science course that may be very difficult to take place in the home.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The other item I'd like to talk about is before you, a two sided green sheet of paper. Crystal Simons, our school resource officer, has believe this is the third

[R9248-45] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Benoit'); later a Claremont Schoo | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: Another good honor for us. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody would like to speak for citizens comments on up? Just please give us your name and your ward. I know that this time.
TEXT> Hi there. My name is Jason Benoit. I live in Ward one,  just down the street. So I came in and I talked at the joint meeting a little while ago, and I made some comments about  how City Council had sort of stuck all the tough decisions on the school board.  So I was thinking about the decisions you guys are going to have to make. And I looked on the  State of New Hampshire website  because I was curious about some things. One of the things I was curious about was the cost of  education of per student in Claremont, in relation to the other towns and cities around where we live. What I discovered was that Claremont, overall, we are  higher on average on every level than the state average. We are  $917 higher at the elementary level. We are $2,101 higher at the middle school level, and we're $1,451 at the high school level. I'm sorry I did that math wrong. We are $2,451 higher at the high school level. So my math is going to be a little off. However, that being said,  I tried to call the saw today to get the numbers of how many kids were actually in each school.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I wasn't able to get Ahold of them. However, I got on to the public school review and I was able to find pretty accurate numbers for all the kids

[R9248-47] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Jason Benware: about, There are 524 million. So they're slightly smaller than we are. But there, average cost educated child at the elementary level is 10,232. Their middle school is 13,365 and their high schools 11,918. I don't know why that is that way. And frankly, yeah.
TEXT> Two two quick things. Claremont receives a lot of grant monies. So the monies that we spend on grants is about $3 million a year that goes into that number. So those are costs that the taxpayers are not paying. It would be in reimbursed for.  Okay. The reason why Franklin is less than I used to be, the Bay and Franklin is they don't include their grants because all their grants run through the saw. So they grants don't show up in the cost per student. And I think if that was in there, you'd see a lot closer to where we're at here.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Fair enough. So we'll stay out of Franklin altogether. We're still higher than the average.

[R9248-52] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the Chair's absence) | 2017-08-02
PREV> Jason Benware: ask is because if it was simply special education, and maybe I'm oversimplifying this. However, if it was simply special education at the elementary level, we're at $1,000 over. But by the time we get to the high school level, we're at $2,500 over. Yeah.
TEXT> Well, I think I can answer your question because I appreciate what you're doing. I appreciate the numbers. I've heard that the same circle. I don't know how many thousands of times in the last 30 years that I've been doing this. Okay. The answer is pretty simple. It has nothing to do with the number of students in the school, so making that comparison is kind of irrelevant. It's got everything to do with property value. It's got everything to do with real estate market. It's got everything to do with reimbursements and grants. There is no correlation that you can say every student in this place and average student in this place, because you got to look at their property values. Well that doesn't tax rate. The tax rate isn't set. That cost isn't set.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's not what I'm asking. I'm asking why does it cost more to educate a student? Not how much the tax rate is. I'm simply asking, why does it cost

[R9248-53] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jason Benoit'); later a Claremont Schoo | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: reimbursements and grants. There is no correlation that you can say every student in this place and average student in this place, because you got to look at their property values. Well that doesn't tax rate. The tax rate isn't set. That cost isn't set.
TEXT> That's not what I'm asking. I'm asking why does it cost more to educate a student? Not how much the tax rate is. I'm simply asking, why does it cost more to educate a student than it does somewhere else? It has nothing to do with tax rate because. Because the cost to educate somebody is how much it costs out of your pocket to educate somebody. Unless I'm reading this differently. So I get what you're saying about tax rate, but that's not what I'm asking about. I'm simply asking about why it costs more.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Why? Guess my point to that old exercise. Because again, this is a conversation that I've heard for 30 years. There's no easy answer to that. And it's not when

[R9248-64] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Jason Benware: these may be very simplified, oversimplified question, but I want to know how many other people I know. There's people in this town who want to know this stuff. So here I am standing up here asking, are we going to do something about it?
TEXT> If I may,  I think your point very well taken, and I'm very pleased that you're discussing it publicly. It can't be done by one person alone. It really this is not a district issue. This is the City of Claremont issue.  I'm working with our state reps. I'm just one person.  The city council and the school board meets periodically. Tonight's agenda. Education, finance. New Hampshire headed to a rural crisis. This is a report that went out. It's on our website. It's pretty meaty, but it gives you an idea of how serious this is.  In mid-July, I was on New Hampshire Public Radio  about this very issue,  and I and I said that zip code should not determine the educational opportunity for children, your children, any children in this community. But in truth, zip code is and does make a difference. Here's an example a local community down the road. Their district is smaller. They have fewer students, fewer schools, their budget $10 million more. Why? They have the revenue access. That doesn't mean we're victims and we're going to lay down. But this is not we.  I'm not going to wait for Concord to fix this.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'm going to be working with state reps, and I'm going to continue to have public discussions about this and hopefully move toward leveling the playing field, because right now,

[R9248-67] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Jason Benware: We have a 15th century tax basis that we're running. That's why because we're running a tax base that worked really good in feudal England. But it doesn't work very well in our state.
TEXT> So I don't have I can't tell you this is going to get better. I can tell you we're not going to sit back and expect others to do something about it,  but it's going to really require not just someone like myself or a school board. It's going to require a community effort. I agree to acknowledge and to say this is not okay. You know, where a child lives  should not determine their educational opportunity.  It shouldn't.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I agree.

[R9248-71] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: legislative level. And then, all I know is I don't know much about the the legal side of things. I have the understanding that Tom Kaunas been working on this for years, and I get the feeling that we will be having that discussion again.
TEXT> But, you know, I do agree with Chris, about the that I feel like it's either going to happen at the legislative level or the other thing we have not talked about is, going back to this, I guess I, I'm not a big fan of the, of per pupil data because it's sort of like saying, okay, if we have if we have,  a teacher, you know, fourth grade teacher for 20 kids and then ten kids leave. You still need a fourth grade teacher. Maybe not in that example. Well, okay, you had 20 students and then eight students leave. You're still going to need you have 12 students. You're still going to need the fourth grade teacher in a lot of situations.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's an average though. Yeah.

[R9248-97] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: action item. I don't want to see it as a discussion. When we're done, I want to be sending a letter, if nothing else, to somebody saying, you know, and we get Tom air here, we get where we can get here. What's the pleasure?
TEXT> I've got, I've got I've got some comments I'm going to make when we get to the point about the rural funding crisis.  When our last joint meeting.  Charlene Lovell.  Mayor lovell. Love love it. Sorry, sorry. Charlene. Kind of put a challenge out to us as a group. What are we going to do to help bring Claremont up? I heard that challenge, and I think everyone else did. So, like Mr. Ben, where I've been, I had the I had the opportunity to actually talk to Mr. Reno before Middleton did.  And get in and look at some of the same statistics that are on the state web page.  He directed me toward those and came up with some of the same conclusions that I'm hearing here tonight about cost per pupil. But I think that, Middleton has has said that it really is a town issue. And so I'm thinking,  you know, we can have more than one meeting as well, but I certainly don't want to leave the city council out of.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well, this isn't going to be a ten minute conversation to me. This is a this is a full fledged.

[R9248-138] Janine Riley | School nurse, Stevens High School (name as stated by the superintenden | 2017-08-02
PREV> Mary Woodman: I can only.
TEXT> Speak for the high school.  I could also speak for the elementary nurses. They do not every single time send out a letter.  First of all, it's kind of like going to the doctor's office.  You wouldn't want me sending out a letter saying that there was 20 people that were diagnosed with something that's kind of against HIPAA. The big thing is education, and we have to take ownership as far as the nurses, as far as the teachers, as far as the parents,  I think,  the superintendent and I did a walk through of all the buildings last year. I think it was a big eye opener for the superintendent. When you go into the buildings, you're looking for certain things. You know, a lot of times you go in for a meeting, you might not necessarily see the things that I would see if I was specifically looking for things that might transmit, lice from one student to another,  for the nurses to be able to send home every single day, because probably in some of the schools, it's brought to their attention every single day that there might be a student.
NEXT> Janine Riley: For some students, it would mean they would never come to school. The visits that we did to the different buildings were really brought up. A lot of things. Some

[R9248-145] Janine Riley | School nurse, Stevens High School (name as stated by the superintenden | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: So they don't.
TEXT> It's no. The sad thing is some of the preventative and some of the medications in over the years, some of the problem has been over treatment.  If you look up the drug Linden, Linden shampoo used to be out there. It still is. It's in a rare occasion that they try to use that,  it can cause all sorts of seizures, all sorts of different things. And sometimes people have overreacted and use things too much. And then you find a strain that may take longer if somebody truly is  is repeated, has done all the steps, has gone through everything. Sometimes it does require,  the person going to the doctor, sometimes they will actually prescribe something and try to get a handle on things. But it is it's a nuisance. And I will honestly tell you, if a student comes in my office and they have head lice and they are very uncomfortable and just, I am not going to force them to go home. I have no problem picking up the phone and calling and saying to the parent, this is what's going on. Would you like to come and get your child? I'm not going to make mandatorily make them go home, but I'm certainly not going to make them sit there and be uncomfortable.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Right?

[R9248-148] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: home unless there is an ongoing issue that's repetitive. I as a parent, I can I can imagine, you know, I spent money and it's still happening. Why can't you fix it? It's not that simple. But parents should not feel they're on their own.
TEXT> You know, I can't speak for the parents. I and the board member who requested this wasn't isn't here tonight. And, you know, part of me was wanted was going to ask. So we that we we schedule this. But it didn't make sense, especially with you here, that we could at least have an educational discussion. The one thing. So I guess the one thing I hear that I hear is I think it's more the even though it's not a medical issue, I think it is the nuisance where parents don't want to it, at least I don't know. I don't know what they expect.  I, I guess looking at the policy, I mean, I've heard yeah, I've heard all sorts of things. Some people feel that they should not that we should keep them out of school. And there's all these different ideas looking at the policy. And as that ties to the the state and the medical, the, you know, the medical experts, I don't really the only if the only thing that I would question would be that one of the recommendations for prevention is about, you know, the parents having the knowledge in order to check their kids.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So I guess I didn't feel that it being unreasonable. I've seen a lot of schools that just say, you know, head lice found something like that. Just to let

[R9248-152] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: Mike and then and Jason have a question too.
TEXT> I think the reality really is, is that if you're going to sit and notice that there's headlights in the school, you might be sending a notice 365 days a year.  I do think there may be spikes in certain seasons, winter coats, winter hats wear. And I'm sure some of the schools do. I don't recall if I've seen it, but just a reminder, you know, about checking your kids for head lice and how to prevent it. I'm sure some of the schools do.  I send my kids to school with the thought that they've probably had lights out to school, no matter which school they go to. So, I mean, I send them out the door, I teach them about, you know, not sharing hats, not sharing. So I, I just think it's something we really assume that it's it might be there. And you do what you can do to try to educate your kids and prevent it.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But I think a general periodic reminder of would it be great idea. By the way.

[R9248-159] Janine Riley | School nurse, Stevens High School (name as stated by the superintenden | 2017-08-02
PREV> Jason Benware: Okay. So you have time to detect them. Yeah absolutely.
TEXT> So you can have the nits depending on how long you've had it, you could have one lay their eggs, you could treat them. Hopefully you've got all the eggs. And like I said they're very tiny. I often have people that will say I saw that, that lice jump. Really. They don't jump. Doesn't happen. Or, you know, I've had kids come in my office and say, I saw one crawling. I'm like, well, where did you see it? You know, so, you know, they can be on the person in the little tiny nits and they're very tiny, kind of silvery, almost crystal. You can hardly see them. I mean, it's not something that you visibly see.
NEXT> Jason Benware: We've dealt with them several times. So I guess the suggestion about once a week that makes a great idea, because it gives you plenty of time to catch them

[R9248-162] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the Chair's absence) | 2017-08-02
PREV> Janine Riley: some reason you had a resistant strain or they went back in, use the same blanket or late in the same carpet, or sat next to the same person the next day that didn't get treated or wasn't treated properly. You could have it restart.
TEXT> Thank you. Well, to Janine's point, I think that's to me that's always been the not funny, but the most complicated part of headlights. It's so psychosomatic. I'm sitting here right now going like this, and I'm not kidding. And as soon as you hear headlights at school, as soon as your kid gets home, they go like this. Oh, my God, they got lice. You can't help it. It's a human reaction. But that's why I want to get to the bottom of it is it's a thing we've got to deal with and figure something out. The bottom line is it's not going to hurt you. Other than it's.
NEXT> Janine Riley: Constant education and checking and checking and checking.

[R9248-173] Janine Riley | School nurse, Stevens High School (name as stated by the superintenden | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: We do National Brush Your Teeth day. We should do national check your day.
TEXT> And there's a lot of information, even for little tiny children. Yeah, that you can use in a classroom.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So thank you very much.

[R9248-177] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: Okay. Food service update.
TEXT> The original memo  in your packet that talks about,  where we are heading. But through the work of Michael O'Neill, we have representatives of the Abbey group, and we thought it would be helpful and informative for the community as well as you, the board, to have an update as to where we are and where we're heading. As I indicated in this memo,  my goal is that our business is basically done and in preparation for the school year, as far as preparing information as well as  applications for free reduced lunch in a different approach before the school year begins, our goal is to maximize the opportunities for students to take advantage of our food service program, as well as for parents to feel at ease that their private business is not going to be public banter, because that's very important. Welcome.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. That's a hard act to follow. Food and food service? Yes, I guess we've been in worse positions than that. So we're excited. I'm going to talk a

[R9248-206] Scott | Vice President of Operations, Abbey Group food service contractor (sur | 2017-08-02
PREV> Scott: apply for the free introduce program. All the all meals are available to all students, whether it's breakfast or lunch. So if they're approved for lunch, they get free breakfast. And like I said, all the choices available to all the kids in the district.
TEXT> So that's important for everybody to know. I did write a few notes just in case. So we the school did purchase some equipment at the middle school, and that's that's been ordered. And the group promised the equipment for all the schools, fruit and vegetable buyers, computer carts and some display warmers at the high school. That's all been ordered. Our goal is having everything in place by the first of the year, but this is a nationwide issue that nobody holds stuff in inventory anymore, and everything's made to order. So we go as fast as we can go to get things in place for the first day of school. So  everything is ordered in a timely basis, and we're just waiting for its arrival. The IT department here has been great as well. Working with Jason's been around for all the schools getting the internet set up. We have like one school, the connectivity issue that might  already be taken care of. I'll check to more on. We should be fully functional. We'll get all the, The K-12 payment center is free just for the parents to know, to sign up,  to view their kids account.
NEXT> Scott: So if they want to see what their kids are having to eat. But if they want to put money on the account, that's where the dollar 95 transaction fee

[R9248-226] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: you informed. Now that we're into August and the school year is fast approaching, we need to change how we do business and not wait for the school year to start to issue information, but to do it through the media and through school messengers.
TEXT> So the community  is more aware, and especially that parents feel there is privacy. Because I think one of the concerns that many parents, and rightfully so, have, you know, they're proud, hardworking people. There's some difficult times in all of our lives at times, but some are reluctant because they don't want to discuss this publicly, and I respect that. When I was a little kid, my parents went through a period like that. I get it, but that should be absolutely private and it's not public information. So I'd like to be able to provide accurate, detailed information for the community, not in a in a hoard of information, but stagger it over time. So can we connect next.
NEXT> Unidentified: Week.

[R9248-230] Unidentified | Unidentified - Abbey Group food service representative, name not audib | 2017-08-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: letting them know. Another option. Same at the same time. Not expecting people to to go electronic just. But it would be helpful if some they might be more inclined to to use it if they could do it online and more discreetly at all.
TEXT> So does anyone here have school age children? So will you.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: Use it?

[R9248-254] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: Frank.
TEXT> So I heard an interesting  article about school funding in Vermont.  Right about the same time, I was starting to pay attention to this so closely. And so the analogy I heard making make it a New Hampshire context is route ten. So route ten starts down somewhere south of Keene and winds up someplace up by Averil, or maybe in the North Country. And it goes through a lot of towns, goes through Haverhill, goes through Hanover, goes through Newport, Creighton, Grantham. As you go through all those towns, there's no change in the road, the roads, the same because the state maintains that road and guarantees it to be at a certain quality and a certain level every mile. And that's really the way the school should be. You should not be able to tell when you cross the Newport or the Croydon Grantham town line. You shouldn't be able to tell that you're in a different town and schools should be the same way. And I thought that was a great analogy. For what it should be. So I've got, I've got a couple of things because I see I, Mr. Benoit, I was listening to his comments and I thought I had a handle on that. Then Mike kind of confused me with the interjection of money about grants and section, the impact that inflates our cost per pupil.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Yeah, because we're spending that money, that grant money. If we didn't receive that grant money, we would be spending less money, obviously. And we can't supplant with the grant

[R9248-262] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: 50 mile rule. It gives it some validity because I'd like to know what Franklin is doing if their tax rate is that much lower than ours. What are they doing? What is Epping doing? Our our tax rate is astronomical. We cannot sustain this.
TEXT> We can't. Per student.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Franklin schools.

[R9248-266] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: How many world languages do they have? How many people in their technology departments? How many people in their, in their custodial staff? I think the city should do the same thing because we're we're not the only ones that are over there. Over to.
TEXT> Pupil teacher ratios is one topic that we talked about last. Also the number of of classes that are quite small in some parts of our district.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So but I want to look beyond teachers as well. I don't want to limit it to instructional staff, but I think I really think that it would be helpful

[R9248-272] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: we have to start looking at this as a, as an absolute crisis and deal with it from two fronts. One, what's in our control and two, two trying to get some control over something that we can't control. That's all I have to say.
TEXT> Yeah. And to the short term, the short term approach to Frank was bring up and I agree wholeheartedly, which is why really wanting to kind of keep having discussions of looking at different parts of the district at some point. We also, I really believe that we need  as a board to kind of set up meeting those meetings,  pre-budget meetings just of us so we can set what goals we need to kind of address and bring them back into the the means of the district. The just a long term look at the long term thing. Just because this is an unpopular idea. This may be an unpopular idea. I'm bringing it up because it seems to never get discussed. And I've even heard kind of,  gubernatorial candidate bring it up. I've heard it come up more and more in small conversations. There's not only is this, it's not just the property taxes that the state is very behind on. We have a district to have a district with only 1700 students. As part of the problem. We keep looking at saying how, you know, we look at so much about the, this being an issue of, you know, why do we have so many administrators or whatever it may sometimes in a lot of these situations, that's the staff that we need to have.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: The problem is we're not serving enough students. I was surprised to hear this from a candidate of a candidate for who's going to run for governor in 2018. He

[R9248-273] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Patrick Adrian: at saying how, you know, we look at so much about the, this being an issue of, you know, why do we have so many administrators or whatever it may sometimes in a lot of these situations, that's the staff that we need to have.
TEXT> The problem is we're not serving enough students. I was surprised to hear this from a candidate  of a candidate for who's going to run for governor in 2018. He brought this up and he said, it's other towns in New Hampshire. You know, most of the most of the countries move towards county districts now. And you brought up Vermont. Vermont has been trying to do the same thing again. They're getting those roadblocks because you have like one big town that doesn't want to have to move. And but the reality is, I mean, look, if we're going to be sitting and talking about I, I don't know what we're going to get with the legislature, with the legislature, because we're still dealing with these pockets of more popular areas where they don't have the problem. So it's I'm not saying this is what we have to do, but if we're going to have these discussions, we need to sometimes look at saying, if we can't get if the rural parts of New Hampshire can't get over it, can't get enough kind of power and voice together to change things in Concord, we may have to look and say, maybe we need to change how we do things.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Maybe it's not realistic. I, I'm not saying that I don't like the idea. I don't want to ever go back to like, county government that kind of escape that

[R9248-412] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: as the green Dot and other programs are having to reduce that type of conduct. So there will be a survey of our high school students. We had our survey last year. We'll have another survey as we monitor the progress with the green dot.
TEXT> You may want to think about changing the wording. Then. When I read through it, I was thinking, well, they should this should say opt and opt out option. And and I said, what about the safe school? But then it said that, that, you know, where we send home the paperwork in the beginning of the year. And, you know, if you don't want your student participating in surveys, you indicate that otherwise they can participate in any survey.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the law that that particular law wants that change, that there's no more opt out. Know that if we're going every time there's going to be we need to

[R9248-421] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-02
PREV> Chris Irish: All in favor?
TEXT> So if I may, Chris, next week. Excuse me. In two weeks, we're going to have a presentation of the strategic plan. Elementary school student handbooks,  fiscal year 18 budget  meetings. I would like to put on the agenda some future discussion, some plans to continue on with our especially with the budget process, with with ACS, and then also  an overview of the PK program, as well as an overview of the restructuring of our alt slash, our program.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9268-18] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: or she reaches the front of the line. And there were several different activities. But the spirit of this is the two hour event gave the athletes an opportunity to get to know each other from other sports, rather than the one they participate in.
TEXT> So you talk about a school community, you talk about the academics, the arts and the athletics. And this is just one further indication  of the Claremont School District and student activities  facilitated by by our staff and coaches. And I think it's also going to be important to note that look on our school district calendar and check out Stevens High School, our elementary schools, the Claremont Middle School. You'll see different preschool or preschool year activities that are being planned. So the school year really begins before September 5th, 2017 with the different activities that are planned as we welcome parents and students at the beginning of the school year. And the last bit of information I'd like to share with you,  if you remember, in 2016,  at that time, Governor Maggie Hassan signed a background check law that allowed school districts to have access to additional information about employees. And it also prevented school districts from being in the dark because in prior years, unlike other businesses or even day camps, for example,  public schools had limited access to the background of  of the candidates. That changed in 2016. Effective September 16th, 2017, House Bill 556 will go into effect and that going to provide school superintendents and only school superintendents, by the way,  with much more details about the background of our candidates.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the goal is to once again ensure that we are hiring the right men and right women, and to close that gap from anyone who really should not be

[R9268-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: But my question was, So I saw that we were playing on having a discussion of, I guess, the alternative program, Senior Stevens alternative Program Handbook, but. So where's that in the agenda? Going to to,
TEXT> If you look at the footnote, Patrick, under. The Stevens High School student parent handbook, you'll notice that reorganization of the alternative and Owls program will be reviewed. And Pat Barry is going to make a PowerPoint presentation.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Thank you. You're welcome. Okay, I missed that.

[R9268-51] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other questions? So when are teachers back in the building working?
TEXT> Sure. So new teachers are  they are scheduled to begin this coming Tuesday the 22nd. They have approximately a week of new teacher orientation and then all teachers are expected back on Wednesday, August 30th.  That's a building base day. So we start with a brief overview from doctor McGowan at the high school. And then folks go back to their buildings for professional learning. And then they have a teacher work day in their classrooms on Thursday, August 31st.  And then students come the following Tuesday, September 5th.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If you look on the website, you'll see school calendars, Claremont and Unity. Click on the calendar and you'll see a complete array of events before the school year starts.

[R9268-57] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: So they would be back on the 30th as well. So Perez will be back on the 30th and 31st and then everybody on the fifth.
TEXT> And our goal is to include pairs with our professional development activities. That's great. They are  front line like all the teachers, and  they are our partners as we work with students going forward. So they need to be there and we invite them.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Did we also have the teacher the the five days of was it curriculum development? Do we do that? We did that last year. Did we do that again this

[R9268-68] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So how do you want people to? What would be the best forum for people to answer your questions of ideas?
TEXT> So I'd like anyone to to definitely email me. I've been on the board for almost two years, and I've received very few of, if any, from any citizens from Claremont.  So I'm asking people to  I'm asking my community to reach out and  help me to answer some of these questions and, and help the conversation to continue, forward. And it's not just incarceration, it's the single parent or grandparent. And how are you struggling and what what what what are some of your techniques and tips or parent? I have a child that has Add, ADHD and oppositional defiance behavior. My grandson, you know, has lived with me since he was one. And it's definitely been a challenge. It's been a challenge in the school system. Our first year in the school system was awful and you know it. It took a lot to get to where we are today. However, I'm trying to reach out to each and every community member, each and every teacher, each and every parent, each and every person that wants to be a part of the community to to send those questions in.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And let's start opening up that in the citizens comments here at the school board meetings and also at the, the, the school board and city meetings. So I'm inviting

[R9268-70] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: to, to help me to, to to field questions or if someone sends a question to you to, you know, help share that information, I feel it's really important that we start doing that. And this is a great place to start. So that's it.
TEXT> If I may, Brian. Thank you. The the school district should be a part of this discussion. The principals, perhaps not tonight, but at another time could speak about their efforts working with parents.  Working with children who have incarcerated adults in their lives.  We've even had meetings at the unity facility, establishing partnerships where we can share information appropriately, but working as a team. So,  but so I, we'd like to be a part of that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Thank you. And I'd.

[R9268-74] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: you know, as I've said before, I'm willing to share my story and I will try not to be so emotional about it. Unfortunately, sometimes waves happen in emotion and and it comes up and I can't stop it. However, I, I've gone from being.
TEXT> In an education education system as a child, being a severe dyslexic,  always being in special education all of my life, right up until the day I graduated to sitting on a school board, which I'm very proud of, and it's taken a lot for for someone to go from a special educational background of such severity that I have to be here. So I feel very confident and comfortable of saying, if I can do it, the slogan is anyone can do it. So I want that  anyone to just  ask any questions and bring send them to, to us. And if the other board members are willing and  anyone else to take those questions, any question is a good question. There is no silly question. And let us be able to start opening that conversation to say, you know, here's a question that was posed what, what what do you think? Or sharing them so that that's my. Yeah, absolutely. Where I'd like to go from here. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9268-98] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: one of the advantages of having this internet access is it really allows people to do that in a confidential way and something and also to be able to, make it a lot easier to, to, stay on top of the their child's lunch services.
TEXT> And we also, Brian, plan to have a protocol where no one will be able to identify a child on free reduced lunch, or a child who is not either by a card or by a Pin number. So they're not going to be a different colored ticket, a different line.  All children will be the same and there'll be no stigma.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Patrick. Patrick raises a really important point in terms of, you know, if I could ask that everybody fill out the forms, even if you really don't think or you

[R9268-99] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a child on free reduced lunch, or a child who is not either by a card or by a Pin number. So they're not going to be a different colored ticket, a different line. All children will be the same and there'll be no stigma.
TEXT> Patrick. Patrick raises a really important point in terms of,  you know, if I could  ask that everybody fill out the forms, even if you really don't think or you feel that there's no way you would qualify because our title one funding,  other grant funding, our E-Rate funding, our adequacy aid, all of those are tied to our free and reduced lunch rates. What we tend to see is that at the elementary levels, we have free and reduced lunch rates in the 70% and higher. And at the high school level, we're in the 40%.  Our families don't become more wealthy as their kids get older, so it's most likely a function of folks not filling out the information. And I think that we're working toward a process to make it easier for families to complete so as not as cumbersome, but also with a greater level of confidentiality. And so  if we can just encourage folks to to do that, because it's for the greater good of our entire school community and our tax rate and everything else.  I think that that would be really helpful. So thank you for bringing that up.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. Patrick. That'll be a message that we suggest to parents as well.

[R9268-119] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Back off.
TEXT> And what we did is we put together information based on stuff that's all available on the web. Mainly Doe was the main source of information.  Some of the questions that were asked last time were,  what is the cost breakdown of the school district costs? I mean, what is the breakdown? How do these costs affect Claremont taxpayers? Why is claim on higher. What is the comparison contrast with other New Hampshire school districts? And what is the feasibility of employing an outside agency to identify inefficiencies?  If I talk to fast or I say something you don't understand, please stop me and I'll try to squeeze my buddy so I don't shake. Too bad.  Here's the questions. And what is the status of the Claremont decision? Was another question. I know Middleton had sent stuff out on that.  That's going to continue to evolve. And I don't know that we can get an idea of what the future of that looks like just because there's so many parts. So what we looked at was revenue sources. That was a big question. Where's the money coming from to pay for the Claremont kids? To get children to get educated?  The state average local taxation is 58.8%.  Now Claremont's only at 42.4, which is actually 16.4% lower than the state average. So I mean, obviously if it was at 58.8, the tax rate would be $15, more per 1000 would be crazy.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: And that's why the costs have to be kept down to consider the other revenue sources as well. So tuition, food and other local revenue is 4.7%, which is 3%

[R9268-120] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: to get educated? The state average local taxation is 58.8%. Now Claremont's only at 42.4, which is actually 16.4% lower than the state average. So I mean, obviously if it was at 58.8, the tax rate would be $15, more per 1000 would be crazy.
TEXT> And that's why the costs have to be kept down to consider the other revenue sources as well. So tuition, food and other local revenue is 4.7%, which is 3% higher than the state average. Reason is because we bring kids in from other districts, and we lower the tuition two years ago to try to get more kids in, and that's worked out for us. We're actually getting more money than we were before. The higher rate  equitable aid, we get 12.2% more equitable aid than other districts than these district average state average. Reason being we were talking about free and reduced. We were talking about other, other factors. Special education children. Those affect the amount of adequacy we get.  Other state sources is is 1% less than the state average federal sources. We talked a little bit about this last time. We get more grants than a lot of districts do. So if you look at the grants, that's basically your federal grants, 3%, 2.9% higher than the average for the state. And then other is basically just money that comes from other sources. Questions on that piece.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Mike on the on the local taxation.

[R9268-124] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: What exactly does that mean? Where's the other 58% coming? If only 42 is local taxation. Exactly. What does that mean?
TEXT> The state average cost for student is funded 58.8% by local taxes, the state average. In Claremont, that number is 42.4% paid by local taxpayers.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So is the other 58 coming? Coming?

[R9268-132] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: So the 42 is coming from the state. The rest of it comes from the state. And okay okay.
TEXT> Well it's coming from the state. Part of the equitable education aid is coming from local taxpayers because you have an education tax. That's part of it. That doesn't go to really to Concord anymore. There's a look at the the percentages and the impacts of those percentages. Obviously, you can see local taxation is quite a bit lower than the than the state average inadequacies quite a bit higher than if we look at where's the money going again using the state average comparison a regular instruction, the state average is 40.9%. We only spent 33.9% here in Claremont with 7% below that.  A reason for that is the next line special program. That's just basically the special ed costs. It's higher than the state average by 5.1%. Vocational programs again see it average averages lower because some people don't have vocational programs. We do. So we have a little bit higher percentage there and then other instructional programs. So if you look at graphically that's where you're at regular. And you can see the offset here in here and here. This has got a lot of the other costs on it. But I think it's important to look at some of this stuff. Student Support Services is -1.8. That could be offset with the with the special ed costs because that could be just a classification issue.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Instructional and then general administration and business is 8.8% higher. School administration is 1% higher than the state average. Business services is a 0.4% less pupil transportation is 0.6 percent

[R9268-133] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: got a lot of the other costs on it. But I think it's important to look at some of this stuff. Student Support Services is -1.8. That could be offset with the with the special ed costs because that could be just a classification issue.
TEXT> Instructional and then general administration and business is 8.8% higher. School administration is 1% higher than the state average. Business services is a 0.4% less pupil transportation is 0.6 percent less than the state average. And then community programs is is your adult education,  bond and note interest? That actually should be 2%. You need to slide that number up one. So we're a little bit higher than the state average by about a half a percent.  Charter school and other programs. That's that's should be a zero. It was off one on those 2.42% have to get moved up. And then food service were a little bit higher than the state average. So that's what that looks like. Basically, like I said, student Support services is partially an offset to the classification of the special ed costs that we talked about up here. Right here, this is up 5.1%. But part of that could be the like I said, the classification of the expenditures. Now if we look at the variance. So what I did is I went back nine years and I looked at what's changed. What's driving these costs up? Where are the revenues coming from? What I found is the local property taxes have increased 3.2% as far as a percentage of the total cost. And that's really coming from other state aid is down 3.9% in federal grants of down point 8%, which is what we've been talking about.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: The states giving us less money in the areas right there. And what's happening is that's getting shifted up into the local property taxes. Graphically, that's what you have. Is

[R9268-143] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: you look at the cost breakdown, I mean, obviously the state average is 58.8% from local taxes. So a lot of those places are paying a lot more percentage of the schools cost from local taxes. We're fortunately getting adequacy which is offsetting that impact.
TEXT> But but does there may be they certainly are paying more. And the cost per pupil is larger, but they have the revenue to do that.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Well.

[R9268-145] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Well.
TEXT> But the correct. But that's driven by this not to jump ahead, but I know this is going to be something that a lot of people are not going to understand. But this is what happens. There's a, there's a, there's a, a, a, a state out there called equalized assessed property valuation per pupil. What that means is if I've got 1738 students, I take my total assessed valuation of the whole city. I divide it by that many students. And Claremont, that number is 398,009 20. That's 42.5% of the average. So the average assessed valuation for people in New Hampshire is 939001. What that means is  the Claremont tax rate would have to be two and a half times higher to raise the same amount of money I was going to raise in the average assessed valuation place. That's what drives the rate on because the assessed valuation is low, there's no way to fix it. There's no magic pill to fix it. You have to work on it slowly through economic development and other stuff and tax incentive districts and things like that, in order to bring the businesses back, because obviously with a tax rate high, people don't want to come because the tax rates high.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: But it's a self-fulfilling prophecy and it just keeps getting worse. But that's really what's driving it. And to Middleton's point, if the assessed value is higher, it's not such

[R9268-148] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Sure. Thank you.
TEXT> And that's a look at what's happened in nine years. Like I said, is locals going up in states going down. There was a couple other questions that I thought were interesting points. Teacher. Average salary 1617. We're at 77.3% of the average. So the the the teacher average salary in Claremont was 44,467, in New Hampshire was 57,522. And obviously that's you know, people say why the costs higher? Well, they clearly not coming from that. That was another question with student teacher ratio okay. The average for New Hampshire is 11.8 students per teacher  Claremont is 10.7. So there are 90.7% of that. So is there room for improvement? Slightly. But it's not like we're half of what the state average is. We're 90% of what the state average is on the two, because obviously that's a big driver of the costs plan want decision. Like I said, really ongoing. You could read for weeks online about it and get a bunch of different opinions. I know that Middleton had sent out some stuff. It's certainly moving forward.  There's other districts that are banding together, Franklin and other districts, to try to straighten that out. But what's happened is it's hard to fund the the adequacy when you don't have enough money.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: So the state's trying to raise more money to fund it. And they're struggling with revenues. And that's why they keep coming up with different rules and regulations to change

[R9268-153] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Want to get those lights?
TEXT> Thank you. You got to scroll back to the distribution of expenditures. Page slide. So I'm, I'm raising this because I know that is  been it's something that we hear from members of the community. And I know that in public just  forums.  So looking at this, we have to, I guess. Can you help us kind of answer this question? Our. You know, we're pretty much we're pretty much comparable to the state average in our distribution. We're actually lower  on in student support services. But the thing that we hear in the community is the two places where  the costs are cost is considerably higher, is general administration in businesses and school administration. Correct. And that's a it's a it's a hot button issue in the community. And I know that we we have to be able to kind of address it. Correct. So,  I guess I don't know what I'm saying, but I, I. I guess maybe to understand that if, if. You believe.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: That it's part of discussions, I mean, certainly it'll be part of the budget discussion because you're right. Those are those are two numbers that jump out at you when

[R9268-154] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: a hot button issue in the community. And I know that we we have to be able to kind of address it. Correct. So, I guess I don't know what I'm saying, but I, I. I guess maybe to understand that if, if. You believe.
TEXT> That it's part of discussions, I mean, certainly it'll be part of the budget discussion because you're right. Those are those are two numbers that jump out at you when you look at general administration and business, which is the SA.  And then you look at school administration, which is basically building level administrators. It is it is higher than the state average, and that's about a $300,000 impact. If you if you equalize it with the rest of the state. So. All right. So student support services basically when we put these things together we code everything on our dough. 25. So your special programs is all your direct 1200 expenditures. Okay. But your nurses, your social workers, your,  guidance counselors, that's your other student support services.
NEXT> Unidentified: So all of those are included in that.

[R9268-160] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: All the all the 2001 hundreds.
TEXT> So one, Patrick, to your point, like I your your point is valid.  But one thing to think about is if we have fewer student support services, if we have fewer guidance counselors and social workers and folks of that nature, the burden we are placing on the administrators in our building is increased because we're asking them to do the.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Work, and that's that's and that's a great correlation. And that's why this is open. And this is this is opening the discussion to start talking about things like that.

[R9268-170] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: And I've looked at specifically Lebanon and their administrators and staff, and they've got a lot more administrators than we do their budgets $10 million higher. Same number of students. But they've got more. More people more.
TEXT> Fewer students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Fewer students, okay.

[R9268-171] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections and crosstalk from sever | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: Fewer students.
TEXT> Fewer students, okay.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Fewer students. But they have they have more people, more administrators in each school that more people in the SA. So we're doing the same job as them with fewer

[R9268-172] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Fewer students, okay.
TEXT> Fewer students. But they have they have more people, more administrators in each school that more people in the SA. So we're doing the same job as them with fewer people.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That number, if I may, Brian, that number regarding administration would be different if we had not added student services coordinators at the elementary school. And and that was that

[R9268-173] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Fewer students. But they have they have more people, more administrators in each school that more people in the SA. So we're doing the same job as them with fewer people.
TEXT> That number, if I may, Brian, that number regarding administration would be different if we had not added student services coordinators at the elementary school. And and that was that was done by for specific reasons, which we'd like to talk about during the budget season. Because very important, when we look at these percentages and numbers, you understand what the numbers represent and why they are what they are.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. And I.

[R9268-186] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Chris Irish: Because we can't we you know I'm all about I know revenues the problem. But we can't just look at revenue. We got to look at cost to and we got to look at them.
TEXT> Which is what we did here. Oh there's your costs. And that's something that, that, that you know, the other question was, you know, cost per student,  the cost per pupil represents, with certain adjustments, current expenditures from all funding sources, local, state and federal associated with the daily operations, schools, payments to other school districts and private schools have been subtracted. Revenues from the sales of lunches have also been excluded. Cost per pupil is calculated by subtracting tuition and transportation from K to 12 current operating expenditures, and dividing by the average daily membership in attendance. Average daily membership and attendance is important. We'll talk about that in a second. The  report state average cost per pupil in total expenditures identifies which expenditures have been included are executed for the the per pupil amount, expenditures, operating tuition, transportation equipment, construction interest and non K-12 expenditures is 17,006 4876. So that's basically an all in number the 17000. They're taking the other costs out to determine if the state averages. So if we went down on this. And we looked at the state average for 1516 elementary was 150 30 for middle was 14 to 95, high school was 150668. The total was 1490193.  So if we look at Claremont for 16170, I got that should be 1516 because obviously I haven't finished 1617 yet.  Elementary was 1594955. Middle was 15 for 13, high was 16989 total 16162.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Then what we looked at was attendance okay. The average statewide attendance percentage is 94.8. Claremont is 92.82%. So whenever you calculate anything using an average cost per pupil, all

[R9268-187] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: 14 to 95, high school was 150668. The total was 1490193. So if we look at Claremont for 16170, I got that should be 1516 because obviously I haven't finished 1617 yet. Elementary was 1594955. Middle was 15 for 13, high was 16989 total 16162.
TEXT> Then what we looked at was attendance okay. The average statewide attendance percentage is 94.8. Claremont is 92.82%. So whenever you calculate anything using an average cost per pupil, all these things figure into it. So if if the attendance was at the state average would be $350, less per pupil would be the cost. Obviously that's not driving the cost of describing the allocation of those costs. And they looked at debt service because our debt service is considerably higher than most districts on a per pupil basis, the average debt service interest is 571 per student. The state average is 248. So if you take those out, because those are things that we have no control over, that's that's because of actions that were taken before we started. So you take those out, you end up in a situation where you adjusted cost per student is 15,488, 86 in total. And then if you compare that to the state average, yes, you're still 586 over the state average. But if you look at the way the allocation is, is 162 districts in the state reporting is 117 with a higher average cost and is 45 with a lower average cost. So when people say, why is it so high?  We're not high. We're in the bottom one third or one quarter of the whole thing. Questions on that. I know that's a lot because I just put together when I was sitting here.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I may be new to the punch, but so our average per student ballpark is upwards over 14,000. We got to which school what's the the the dollar amount that

[R9268-188] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: average cost. So when people say, why is it so high? We're not high. We're in the bottom one third or one quarter of the whole thing. Questions on that. I know that's a lot because I just put together when I was sitting here.
TEXT> I may be new to the punch, but so our average per student  ballpark is upwards over 14,000. We got to which school what's the the the dollar amount that the state attaches to their adequate education. Because we're not even we all know we can do better.
NEXT> Unidentified: Five five.

[R9268-194] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: is this is the real average cost. When the when you put all the expenses in 1769. That's that's 14 901. So what they're doing is they're taking out transportation. They're taking out, you know, they're not really putting all the costs in there either.
TEXT> Well, that's the that's my point to this exercise, guys. I said it the other night. You can go through this a thousand different ways with a thousand different equations.  The problem is the state says it should only cost us $3,500 to educate a kid. I dare you to find any district in the state or any state that's educating a kid. And when did we say adequate was good enough? But that's why I don't. For me, this is a this is another trip down the rabbit hole that we've been doing for 30 years now.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I think.

[R9268-198] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah.
TEXT> But that's it. The state gives us 3500 is educate your kids. It costs us 17. And we're not we're not luxury by any stretch.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And like like we said, we're in the bottom third in in per cost or per pupil spending.

[R9268-199] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Chris Irish: But that's it. The state gives us 3500 is educate your kids. It costs us 17. And we're not we're not luxury by any stretch.
TEXT> And like like we said, we're in the bottom third in in per cost or per pupil spending.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And that was the result of the Claremont lawsuit. They said we'll give you an adequate education to meet what the Supreme Court said. But the way to get around

[R9268-208] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: I don't usually.
TEXT> Get, I'm wondering when we because I'm new to this part of the school board, but when do we get to talk about ideas for, what student support services entails and how to, make changes to improve or, I don't know what I'm trying to say. When does the school is the school board involved in any conversations, brainstorming sessions around student support services, or does that come at the same time as you talk about school administration and business services and all the rest of these budgeting.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's going to be clarified tonight, Rebecca, when we talk about our strategic plan, which is going to be part of the budget process, I'm jumping ahead of myself. But

[R9268-209] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: trying to say. When does the school is the school board involved in any conversations, brainstorming sessions around student support services, or does that come at the same time as you talk about school administration and business services and all the rest of these budgeting.
TEXT> That's going to be clarified tonight, Rebecca, when we talk about our strategic plan, which is going to be part of the budget process, I'm jumping ahead of myself. But it's very important that when the board, student Support services, any board member has a question like that, we come back like we did tonight.  So nothing should be off the table. We just need to know ahead of time so we can be prepared like we were tonight.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. And just, so I know I find this to be very helpful information. I need to look over it again and process it more and take it all in.

[R9268-262] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So we've  got our elementary school student handbooks.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Melissa Lewis and deal. Jeanette, our new Bluff Elementary School principal here representing the elementary schools. And you have their handbook in your packet tonight. Welcome, Melissa and Dale.

[R9268-268] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Melissa Lewis: one pager just talks about if we did make an edit, a revision of some kind. What did we do to it? So we're happy to answer any questions that you have for us after you've had some time to take a look at that.
TEXT> That page is right after the cover letter that says Elementary School Student Handbook.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So the meal program, there's not going to be a difficulty in getting that added, because it's.

[R9268-279] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Your vote of approval would be appreciated unless you have any questions or comments.
TEXT> So the telephone section was completely removed. Is there have you found that there are elementary students that have cell phones?
NEXT> Unidentified: All of this.

[R9268-281] Melissa Lewis |  | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: All of this.
TEXT> They do. And some of them go off at some inopportune moments. What we find is that really parents are at the elementary level or more apt to be the ones calling us with changes. And if we do need, if a kiddo does come down and say, you know, I don't know how I'm going home today, our secretaries help facilitate that call due to their age as well. Our older students will certainly make that call right there, but our younger ones still need our help accessing phone numbers and things like that. So at the elementary level, I think it's slightly different than than what it is at the middle and high school.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, I'll if he wants, take a thank you.

[R9268-290] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Parent Handbook.
TEXT> Student Parent Handbook 20 1718 principal Pep areas here. She also is going to provide a brief PowerPoint to answer the question regarding  our owls and all program. A great deal of work. You received the handbook. I think it was Friday night. Access to a Google doc.
NEXT> Unidentified: It was highlighted. Yes. Yes, that's all the new stuff. Things that are struck through are struck through.

[R9268-297] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: What I liked.
TEXT> The removal of of sort of for dress clothing for just getting away from male students, what's inappropriate for them and then female what's inappropriate that it's just.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Because.

[R9268-299] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Because.
TEXT> You know, I'm sure there are our, our male students that would probably try to get away with wearing a skirt that's.
NEXT> Unidentified: Too short.

[R9268-323] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: of some kind. Last two years ago, we had it in house when we restructured it. Initially, we moved it to the Tech Center. Last year, Kristin joined us. We started staffing it differently by bringing teachers in through it from our regular education classes.
TEXT> We had Paris attached to it and we moved it upstairs to the tech center. Knowing what we know about all programs needing to be outside the regular school, the populations that they serve, owls mainly serves juniors and seniors. You have to have 13.5 credits to qualify to be in the Owls program, and those students are students who have been regular students at Stevens for their freshman and sophomore year, but have not found that to be successful for them hasn't worked. And so they acknowledged that they, for whatever reason, there's many reasons why kids go to Owl sometimes because their parents or are going to be parents, some because they are the main or a part wage earner for their home. A number of reasons. And they come to the Owls program 2.5 hours, two different sessions. You're in one session or you're the and the other. And this is up until now and 17.5 hours of work study. The work study has until now not been necessarily connected to the academics. If you worked at KFC, if you were babysitting, if you were reading, if you were, there were a number of things that students could count as their work. Study wasn't tied to any competencies and it wasn't credit bearing.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So and our Alt program serves mostly freshmen and sophomores. These are students who come to me to come to us and, and pretty quickly identify as students who are

[R9268-324] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: necessarily connected to the academics. If you worked at KFC, if you were babysitting, if you were reading, if you were, there were a number of things that students could count as their work. Study wasn't tied to any competencies and it wasn't credit bearing.
TEXT> So and our Alt program serves mostly freshmen and sophomores. These are students who come to me to come to us and, and pretty quickly identify as students who are going to struggle in a mainstream classroom. And the Alt program is for them. The goal of the Alt program is that we get them back, at least to some degree, into the high school. The goal of the Owls program is that students who have shown, that they need an alternative kind of education get to graduation. So it's kind of the definition of the two programs. So in 15 and 16 this is just an overview. And on the bottom you've got the total owls. We had two teachers. We cycled a  quarter English teacher in through their program. They have no Paris attached to that program and no mental health or counseling. On the all side. This was when it was still inside Stevens. We had a lead teacher and we cycled three quarter time teachers in there. When I say quarter time. So for one block a day, those teachers went into the program and did direct instruction in their core program.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: They had one para attached, and our crisis counselor was there for a block a day. So for teachers, opera and a quarter mental health in 1516, 1617, the year

[R9268-326] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: the pipeline, so he will be teaching first semester math. But we know that Owls needs to teachers. We are proposing a restructuring of Owls and Alt to maximize the staff that are there. And that would mean that we still have two teachers attached.
TEXT> We are in the process of hiring someone to replace the spare tawny.  And, we have the one full time specialist, which is Kristen. We have hired somebody who has a social studies special ed certification to be up there two thirds of the day as a and other teacher in the program will cycle through an English teacher and a math teacher. Two powers will still be attached. And the mental health counseling piece will happen every single day from our crisis counselor. And we want to offer those services to our Owl students as well. We only have about 15 students who we have identified as being Owls students going into next year. So we're proposing a one three hour session. The other piece was with  2.5 hours a day and 17.5 hours of work, study students were only going to school 30 hours versus the 32.5 that Steven's high school students now see. Time  is almost a thing of the past. We don't count seat time towards education. It's about meeting competency. But we wanted to make it equitable in that way, too.  So we're offering a three hour from 9 to 12, which is the balance of when most kids can make it, and then all the staff. So there are kids who take owls who are on on Odyssey, where a student who might struggle with English, being on a computer and learning English doesn't work for that student.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: They may do far better to come into where the all kids are being taught direct instruction by Miss Gilson and take their English that way, vice versa. And all

[R9268-327] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: balance of when most kids can make it, and then all the staff. So there are kids who take owls who are on on Odyssey, where a student who might struggle with English, being on a computer and learning English doesn't work for that student.
TEXT> They may do far better to come into where the all kids are being taught direct instruction by Miss Gilson and take their English that way, vice versa. And all student may be really good at math and might breeze through the Odyssey where on a computer versus sitting through math direct instruction, we want to we want to open up the possibilities for both populations to access different kinds of learning. So the vision which I started giving you the vision and we'll we'll go from there. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9268-330] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: will now be preapproved. Ellos. You can still maybe your work study might still be working at KFC, but we're going to identify what you're doing at KFC and how it meets English and math competencies, and how we can tie it to your education.
TEXT> That work study will now be credit bearing. So for your ELO for those 17.5 hours, you get a credit because we're tying it to your academics. Certified teaching staff for both Owls. And the All Behavior program will work with all students. So it'd be one big umbrella, two identified populations each coming into their programs through separate entrance ways and and application processes. But having access to the whole staff and all students will have a PLP,  which is a personalized learning plan. What is a puppy? It's an academic, social and personal plan created by the student with a staff member and the team to identify the goals and strategies that will enable the student to reach graduation. Each student, and ideally every. My goal is that every student at Steven's high school has a PLP. We're going to start with the all program. So this is a cover sheet that shows every assessment state and internal assessment that we have, their map scores, their SAT scores, any numbers that we have I ready scores and math, reading and writing so students can sit down and say this was my score last year.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: This is my goal. This is what I want to get to. What are your other academic goals? Do you want to graduate? How long do you want to graduate?

[R9268-331] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: cover sheet that shows every assessment state and internal assessment that we have, their map scores, their SAT scores, any numbers that we have I ready scores and math, reading and writing so students can sit down and say this was my score last year.
TEXT> This is my goal. This is what I want to get to. What are your other academic goals? Do you want to graduate? How long do you want to graduate? Do you want to be on the two year plan? The three year plan, the five year plan? Let's sit down and talk about this. What are your social and emotional goals? A lot of students in these programs are dealing with other issues. That's why it's important that not just the all behavior, but the owls kids have access to counseling. So this year we'll have the math and English teacher from Stevens provide direct instruction to block a day, regardless of which program. And it will depend on their PLP. They'll also identify in that first week of school, how do I want to take my English? How do I want to take my math? How do I want to learn social studies? What works for me? We're going to have them talk about their learning styles, hands on projects, what are we going to do outside the classroom, inside the classroom? ET cetera, etc. we have that  new teacher, Miss Palace, joining us. Social studies Sped dual certification, and she'll be dedicated there for two thirds of the day. So that will be great for Kristen to have another adult there for the vast majority of the day, and a teaching capacity and access to the crisis counselor.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So there's that. And then there's the handbook that I gave you. In the handbook is a compilation of what we had for the Owls Handbook that we were using

[R9268-337] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination) | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: but the alt program is. And we have to have a 60% population in if we change that and we make the Alt program in the future a non special ed program, that goes away. But currently that's the that's the criteria we have to.
TEXT> And behaviors. Are you feeling like you have a high percentage of students that might demonstrate behaviors trauma.
NEXT> Kristin Eisner: Or whatever? So last year we I is that we saw freshmen come in that started in the high school and very quickly identified that they wouldn't be successful in

[R9268-338] Kristin Eisner | Owls program specialist, Stevens High School (uncertain - ASR 'Kristin | 2017-08-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And behaviors. Are you feeling like you have a high percentage of students that might demonstrate behaviors trauma.
TEXT> Or whatever? So last year we I is  that we saw freshmen come in that started in the high school and very quickly identified that they wouldn't be successful in the high school itself. And by taking them out of that large space with other kiddos and bring them into a smaller space list, smaller student of staff ratio, we say we saw a lot of behaviors decrease. We had a kiddo little brag who was a junior, and he had three credits coming into his junior year. This past year, he had six credits. So huge success. Okay, thank you.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And you mentioned that you tie in, the work study to the academic. How do you do that?

[R9268-340] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And you mentioned that you tie in, the work study to the academic. How do you do that?
TEXT> With the help of our curriculum specialist. So just the way we would if any other student came to us and said, you know, there's nothing in your program of studies that I'm interested in, but I still need a credit of social studies. What can I do? Or I'm interested in? And I'd like to work in this museum and do this, this and this around my my social studies credit, we we basically say, okay, what is it you're interested in doing? Where is your current job? So if these students are already employed someplace, we know that's key for them. That's important. But they're doing math. They're doing marketing, they're doing public relations. They're doing public speaking. It's just about identifying those things that they're already doing in those jobs, and then coming up with a rubric on how to assess, how do how do we assess on a weekly basis with their boss and with them in their weekly reflections that I have met this competency when I did this.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: In the curriculum specialist will help do that.

[R9268-344] Kristin Eisner |  | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: She's going to be working with Kristen and and everybody in both programs that first month in creating those. And for those students.
TEXT> One thing I really like about the yellow, it gives kids an opportunity that may not know what they want to do after high school, to kind of experience some of those job skills that are going to be required later on and kind of give them a boost that they can be successful after high school, because that's a really scary time, especially for kids in this population.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. What about that? There is a plan in, late.

[R9268-355] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: You know?
TEXT> Well, that's a very good question. And and part of our goal is to make sure that they have a series of, of a training in a series of different ways around behavioral. The people that were hiring, like the social studies Sped person, has a vast background in behavioral working with behavior programs and students. And so that's the kind of staff we're bringing in. And the paras we're still looking for one para, by the way, for the Alt program that's a major piece of our interview process is is people's background for the the para who's there. We're going to be providing more training for him so that he is better equipped to, to know, procedures, physical procedures with students, but also ways for de-escalating and working with them. Absolutely, absolutely.
NEXT> Unidentified: Crisis counselor.

[R9268-370] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: this mean that so does this mean that for next year that Stevens will be doing like one p teacher? Are we doing like the outside learning opportunities? I don't know if there's there's those aren't extended learning opportunities. But what what do you call.
TEXT> So we we had we had made the case in the last budget season that we felt confident that, students would be continue to be well served and still have plenty of access to their PE credits with one PE teacher.  When when one individual left, we felt that  knowing the needs that we had in the Alton Owls program, that we would use that staff position this year to fund what is the Social Studies Sped certified person and to start building up that staffing? This year will will prove I'm I'm confident that we'll we'll be fine with the single p  position. And my proposal would be that going into the next budget year, that we do the same and that we move forward with 1PE teacher, given our numbers, which continue to go down, that we go with a one p position and continue with, looking at ways to, to to shore up the staffing at the all program. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. I mean it's like so I think member members that had expressed concerns about what? About it's, concerns about its kind of successor based on concerns or us. But

[R9268-372] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: About it's, concerns about its kind of successor based on concerns or us. But again, you know, we don't we don't have a say about how things are run. We just I just want to get clarification about how it was going to be working.
TEXT> This this year. Will will be the proof in the pudding. And you know, I'm I hope I'm not proven wrong. But I but I may be, but right now it's looking and our guidance counselors are coming in next week. But it's looking like with the consolidation and what we've done with what the courses that we're offering and not offering that students who need and want their PE credit are still getting it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So if I if I may just bring closer to this, unless the board has other questions, I just want to recognize Christine Eisner. The I have a great deal

[R9268-374] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: past year and and what Pat Barry and it's recommending. I'm very, very pleased about where we're going, in particular, because Christian is going to be working closely with Pat and others with this program. So it's a check plus for us. And thank you.
TEXT> I want to thank you because I like I like that yeah, I understand their different programs in different populations, but I like that there's that that fluidity where a student that needs yeah, needs that extra something that isn't necessarily offered can slide over and get. I think that's really important for certain populations of students. And it's, it's it's a benefit and it's it's a I like to see I like the direction that it's going in for the program. So thank you for that.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're welcome.

[R9268-376] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: You're welcome.
TEXT> I would just like to echo Document Goodwin's comments. Kristen is Kristen's are hard to find. People who not only tolerate working with this somewhat challenging population, but who live for it, who are passionate about it, who end their day still smiling. Are really, really hard to find. And we we have a real gem in her. She her ability to to connect with these students, to make them find meaning in their school day, her ability to work with the SRO, with the court systems where she was today. It is such a multifaceted job, and it's such a stress bearing job that very few people don't crumble under the pressure of that kind of a day. And she not only does it, she's like a diamond. She you know, the pressure just makes her brighter every day. So, I just want to give a public shout out to her. And we are. We are very blessed to have her on board.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thanks a lot. Do you need anything from us?

[R9268-390] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-08-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So it's going to be following the rubric. It's not going to be subjective, right?
TEXT> Every student, just like in their regular classes, will have rubrics that clearly identify what a P looks like, what a D looks like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Perfect. All of that.

[R9268-405] Doug | Athletic Director, Claremont School District (surname not on this reco | 2017-08-16
PREV> Michael O'Neill: And.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. And before our, Doctor Goodwin had mentioned the fun night, I would I'd be remiss if I didn't think Patti to Shane, who did a lot of the work on that last night. It was the feedback has been very positive. Kids I talked to had a had a really good time. It was kind of nice kick off to the athletic season. And and even the coaches. Coaches tend to be a little nervous going into things like that if they're not the organizers of it. And those coaches who I talk to today. Even some of the veterans had a had a great time last night. So I would like to to thank Patti for, for all her work on on that. So what I did with the Athletic Handbook was basically took what we had and added a little bit more meat to it. You'll see that there's  a lot of yellow. But the basic rules and regulations are the same. We're still following the same academic eligibility that that is in place. But hopefully what this does is does a little bit better job of explaining.
NEXT> Doug: It goes a little bit deeper in some of the expectations that we have for students, coaches, parents. There's a chain of command that we, we have added, so that

[R9268-406] Doug | Athletic Director, Claremont School District (surname not on this reco | 2017-08-16
PREV> Doug: to it. You'll see that there's a lot of yellow. But the basic rules and regulations are the same. We're still following the same academic eligibility that that is in place. But hopefully what this does is does a little bit better job of explaining.
TEXT> It goes a little bit deeper in some of the expectations that we have for students, coaches, parents. There's a chain of command that we, we have added, so that people know who they, you know, who they should be going to. So the the saw was bombarded with angry emails. You know, they they still may be, but, we have it in there. So because a lot of times  folks don't know who they should contact if they have a question or a concern. And, we just added, we added a little bit more meat to this. We also are involved in the life of an athlete program through the NH, a  and we just wanted to make sure that it. It falls within their criteria as well. Which the old one, the old one did. A lot of the punishments are the same.  But, we just needed to make sure that we, we added a little bit better explanation on, on what our expectations are.  So if anybody has any questions about the Athletic handbook, I'd be happy to answer them. If not the coaching handbook, this really should be all yellow because we had no coaching handbook, and I. I felt it was important that  coaches have something that they can go back to.  We'll go over rules. We'll go over expectations during our meetings and whatnot. But, you know, this is something. What do I do if I hear thunder?
NEXT> Doug: You know what happens? You know what? What happens if, school is closed for the day? What happens if there's a late a late start? These are in here for

[R9268-444] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you sir.
TEXT> And comes with input from hundreds of people. So when we're thinking about communication, when we're thinking about how do we know this is what the community wants? It's because we've asked them. We've been out there literally pounding the pavement and getting that information from them. So in the summer of 2016, the journey officially began. The school board approved before that, moving forward with the Strategic Action Plan process. We hired a consultant. His name is Mark Dolan. He came recommended from, I believe, the New Hampshire School Boards Association. He had worked with the Claremont School District probably nine years earlier. I think it was about nine years earlier to create the last strategic plan that was ever in place in our district. And then he he returned to work with us and worked with, at the beginning, the administrative team. And we spent a lot of time coming to consensus and agreement on a variety of areas. Particularly our core values and beliefs, and started to answer the questions of what are our strengths, what are our best opportunities, and what are our aspirations for the future? And through that process generated, the elevator speech of our community is committed to success for all. One student at a time. Whatever it takes.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Our journey continued. A formal committee was formed. Everybody throughout the community was invited to participate. Everyone who responded saying they wanted to participate was included in the process. There

[R9268-445] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: the questions of what are our strengths, what are our best opportunities, and what are our aspirations for the future? And through that process generated, the elevator speech of our community is committed to success for all. One student at a time. Whatever it takes.
TEXT> Our journey continued. A formal committee was formed. Everybody throughout the community was invited to participate. Everyone who responded saying they wanted to participate was included in the process. There were there was not a cut out process where some people who said they wanted to participate were not allowed to. Everybody was included. And those folks began to meet on a regular basis with Mark to develop this plan. We used information from teachers. We've held student forums to inform this plan. We've held community forums to inform this plan. We've been at farmer's markets, lollipop festivals, Octoberfest, fall festival. Where else have we been? A variety of other places seeking information from our community about what they want to see for education in Claremont that led to more formalized community conversations. We held one over at the middle school. And gathered additional information. And then all of that information was used to inform this plan. The committee was made up of school board members, the superintendent, myself, different school personnel, administrators and teachers, folks from the current technical center, parents, city council and community. And so it was a, well, a diverse community of folks. Patrick and Michelle were able to speak in that process and can speak to that as well. We discussed different themes. We we  had, robust discussion, we had rich discussion, we had lengthy discussion. And the primary, I would say the real primary.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Sense of urgency that came out of all of that is that we're not okay with what we have for education in our community today. We aren't saying that what

[R9268-516] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Chris Irish: the right reason. And I believe in my heart of hearts, it paid huge dividends and brought Claremont. I believe this school board and the next school board going into next year is going to be faced with that identical challenge from our school district.
TEXT> We're at that crossroads given to the challenge through our hands up and walk away or say, no, we're not going to do that. This. And to me, this is the template for doing what the council did those years ago when we tried to bring the city back to life. We need to bring the schools. I don't want to say back to life because I think you've come a long way. It's, you know, the ship's turning now. We need to start steering the ship. We always talk about that. So I think to that point, this board has to be ready to be the public facing, and you're going to get the arrows and the knives in the back and the bad press. It's going to happen. But if we stay together, we can be as successful as I believe. The council was now my last issue and I thought you were going to go there. I actually set up an all excited when you talked about the Red River people. That should be tenfold that many kids at Red River through this tech center. I really want to see in my heart of hearts there should be an entire focus and this, this plan just for this tech center.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And I don't mean as a subset of the high school or as a subset of just another building in this school, and where it fits in our our umbrella

[R9268-523] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-08-16
PREV> Cory LeClair: I think there's two. There's two areas that were discussed but didn't explicitly make it in the final cut. One is the tech center and the other is early learning. And so those are two areas that I think could use additional.
TEXT> My, my fear. And it's already happening. So it's not a fear. Its reality. This building is just becoming another building. And it's I  want to caveat that I'm not saying it's anybody in front of me is fault. It's the nature of where things have come. Things are changing, and now things are really going to change next year when staff retires. So I don't want to see this just become, hey, we have this building, let's put something in it. I want to see us cut the cord with Newport and create the Claremont Tech Center and bring it back to what it should be and what it can be for for the people of Claremont and other communities who will bring their kids here. That's my ultimate.
NEXT> Unidentified: Goal to.

[R9268-525] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-08-16
PREV> Unidentified: Goal to.
TEXT> The thing I if I if I can jump in. Brian, part of this plan of assembling a team and doing a needs assessment and to look at the schedules is to expand. The hope is the goal is we've got to do this to expand student access to this facility and that that that's incorporated with the Stevens High School schedule for 1819 going forward. Because without student access, this building.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Well and.

[R9315-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: the ability to assist, you know, to apply for this and, you know, towards kind of helping support a program that's already existing. I didn't know if that was allowed with this application, but I was wanted to raise that for something to look into.
TEXT> I think I think the very good comment, Patrick, last week I received an email from the commissioner,  regarding what you're talking about, the initiative to robotics and Stem. I shared it with the administration, and the administration had been dialoging among themselves being interested in this. And there's a grant application that an application process.  I'm a real advocate of of not having a well supported and really promising as measured by what the students are doing project with the robotics, suddenly  be having another robotics  and going like two different pathways. So I do not know if the grant that we are discussing now here in Claremont would allow us to dovetail, but I do. The goal is to expand the opportunities for students with this. But we're also in a discovery mode right now, so we're on it.  We have to turn over a few leaves, we have to learn more about it and and then apply for the grant if in fact it fits, if it fits where we are and where we want to go.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But we need to provide more Stem opportunities for students. And if we can expand on the robotics program and have engaging experiences for our students with Stem and with

[R9315-32] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' [140,256] and a | 2017-09-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: mean, we even have it in the city with, just with, committees. Just, we need people to volunteer and, you know, it just had me thinking because I really, really value, you know, the sciences and, you know, I think this robotics program is great.
TEXT> I'd love to see younger kids getting involved, but for any of this, it's a lot of its  has to come with what time are we going to give? Because the money is only part of the formula.
NEXT> Unidentified: All right.

[R9315-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Chris Irish: mean, if they're off to. So I just that's the question is where's the funding going to come from next year or how much funding are they going to actually have for this year? If they have four more seats, they must have excess funds?
TEXT> Well, the current the current program has a four year lifespan, and it's being projected that  at the minimum, it's going to be four years because we have some students going into the, the, the, the path, if you will, a pathway to success  as freshmen  and in some cases, sophomores. However, Chris, I will ask that question.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Because I'm.

[R9315-39] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Superintendent: 'if I may, Chris, y | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: It is donations. You're right and is not being funded by our school district.
TEXT> Because if they're talking for years, they have $50,000. I don't think that's going to pay for four years worth of education for 14 kids. So I'm just kind of I'm just want to make sure this thing is funded for the long haul. So cool.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Anything else for the two point? Okay. We'll open for citizens comments.

[R9315-43] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: And seeing none, we'll close citizens comments for people at home. Nobody's here. That's why we're that quick. And, discussion items. We have our 20 1718 school year update.
TEXT> I put this on the agenda. And in fact, if you look below,  I was going to be discussing some of the topics as we go forward with this, this 1718 school year. We are in a, in a, in a process where we are breaking ground with some new initiatives, and the new initiatives are not add on. They're really initiatives to make improvements. And of course, one of them is food service. I will tell you that the ladies and the men in prior years in our food service department worked very, very hard. And we're very committed to students and to the school community. And I'm very pleased to tell you that 90%  of our, our, our employees  are  our former employees with with the Abbey Group  to walk into the school. And Brian has been there. Cory has been there. Mike, I believe you have been as well. Walk in and you see our food service staff dressed professionally.  There's there's a message right from the get go.  When I sat down and had lunch, besides a middle school student today, I asked a gentleman who had a great looking hat on. I said, so tell me, how's the pizza? And he goes.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Without having to break from from his chewing of his pizza. But I had I had a what felt like a homemade vegetable beef soup with salad and bread, breadsticks

[R9315-44] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: professionally. There's there's a message right from the get go. When I sat down and had lunch, besides a middle school student today, I asked a gentleman who had a great looking hat on. I said, so tell me, how's the pizza? And he goes.
TEXT> Without having to break from from his chewing of his pizza.  But I had I had a what felt like a homemade vegetable beef soup  with salad and bread, breadsticks that could basically melt in your mouth. So,  and what's interesting is that Pat Barry asked  our freshmen and sophomores. So after the first day of school this morning, we had the program. What are your feelings about  the food service? And many were like this, some undecided, a few. But what we're expecting with our food service program,  and as you heard last month, it's going to take time. It's going to take time for the Abbey Group to settle in, going to take time for the Abbey Group to learn about the principals, the teachers, to students, the school culture and make adjustments accordingly. So I think the Abbey Group is going to be hitting the ground learning. Though I will tell you, first impressions are  quite something,  but they still are being constructively critical and are welcoming input. Brian, yesterday morning at Maple Ave, we're we're there watching some students have breakfast.  And I can tell you, because I have great self-control. I didn't ask the student, can I have that? Because it looked terrific. It was a wheat muffin with  meat and cheese, and it looked absolutely phenomenal.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It was. That's what I had. It was. It was good. I'm happy to say I'll probably go back again and, just keep trying it out just to see how

[R9315-47] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: on the application and those personal finances that private information is required in. So they were approved by checking Medicaid, but the information is still there. And just because one receiving assistance through Medicaid doesn't automatically mean that they'd be eligible for free reduced lunch.
TEXT> So these are the kind of little glitches that we've discovered. But they're minor. And the good news is we are working hard to communicate this with with the community and with the parents because,  every, every child who is entitled to receive free or reduced lunch, we really want to work hard that they are receiving that benefit, that they they certainly deserve. So are there any questions at all regarding the food service? Have you heard again? Only two days, but have you heard any any,  comments?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I heard good things. From a, kiddos and they haven't had hot lunch yet, but they're noticing what their friends are having. So I just put some money on one

[R9315-63] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Anyway. Yeah.
TEXT> I only comment to some students at Stevens High School. Might seeing it negatively. It has nothing to do with the Abbey Group, but everything to do with the fact that the cafeteria environment is stressful for some kids, and they would like to avoid that if they could. That's not just Stevens. That's many schools, but I think, you know, that's sort of a false negative. I think if you if some kids say we don't like it, it's not that they don't like Abbey Group, they just don't like being in the cafeteria.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So hoping that there's I haven't gone into Stevens cafeteria since they've switched over. But my understanding of the problems with getting cafeteria food before, and just it's the lines

[R9315-64] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'Patrick' [140,256] and a | 2017-09-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: not just Stevens. That's many schools, but I think, you know, that's sort of a false negative. I think if you if some kids say we don't like it, it's not that they don't like Abbey Group, they just don't like being in the cafeteria.
TEXT> So hoping that there's I haven't gone into Stevens cafeteria since they've switched over. But my understanding of the problems with getting cafeteria food before,  and just it's the lines would be very according to, Principal Berry was a lot of students found that they have a very limited amount of time for lunch, and you have one line and just the way it was set up previously. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I'm sorry. It was. I'm sorry. Yes. Before where you had the just the whole setup when you had a cafeteria, they had the cash register. At the end of the line, you'll have one line. For so many reasons, between the computerized system and having, I think, other options available, I'm hoping that the opinion in the, in the high school, the students will see, while it's kind of more of an option, it used to be.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm talking about social and.

[R9315-67] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. Well that one we can't I mean, I'm just looking at what we can change, at least for the time being.
TEXT> I will say, Frank. Frank is right. My memories of the cafeteria as a building principal, the number one priority is who am I going to sit with? Food was sort of secondary to many students,  but we now have three lunches at Stevens High School. Because of the anticipation of of increasing the number of students. But again, we're just in the infant stages. But it's just it's exciting. It's exciting. And I certainly appreciate the board support going forward with this. And once again, I'm very pleased that 90% of our former dedicated employees are still with us. That was important and I'm very pleased. I saw many of them today,  and I'm just very pleased that this transition did not displace  residents who are employed in our food service there.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: There are a few folks who have talked about the, the weights and the lines yesterday and today accessing the food, but I think everyone needs to remember that it's

[R9315-69] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda, calls votes; addressed  | 2017-09-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: same thing. So I think this week there'll be some time spent working out the kinks. But I it seems like everybody's keeping a very open mind about that. And adjustments will surely be made where they need to be made as we move forward.
TEXT> Oh, the other thing is silverware. Yes. Getting in line for breakfast.  The first comment I was  out, I got in line. There were probably there were five kids that started right off, let everyone go. And while we were waiting in line, the first comment made was oh wow, metal. And they were happy to have silverware. And that was a big change for them. And I heard one of the teachers say, yeah, no more sparks. And so that's that's another positive change. And  just just hearing, hearing the discussion in that short amount of time that I was there just they have to everyone has to remember to not throw away their silverware. It's so they're gonna it's it's just a whole big learning process. And  once they get there, once they figure out, you know, the cashing out, catching the students out, you know, which buttons to push for what they get. And it's it's just going to take, you know, it probably take a good month.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's going to take a little while. Yeah.

[R9315-78] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'doctor Goodwin' [5] and 'Middleto | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: enrollment numbers are increasing. But there is a there's a counter to that. If you have one school that let us say it has 25. Now, we haven't reached that yet, but we're getting close. If one school has 25 and another school has 15.
TEXT> And if the number in the 25 continues to increase, we would be transporting children from one school to another school, or we would be adding another teacher. So in other words, but if the kindergarten classes were all in one school, then there would be certain advantages to that one being that we could make adjustments within the school. Now, I'm not telling you that's going to happen, but we're going to be looking at different options as far as how we doing business and where we would make recommendations as we get into the budget process. And it may not necessarily be for fiscal year 19, but we need to have this discussion. And I think it's wise to have that discussion. So these are the type of initiatives that are going to be being driven by the strategic plan. And we certainly need to keep you in the community informed as this process continues. So I would recommend that we have a strategic action Plan agenda item at every meeting. It may not be a long presentation, it may be a two minute  discussion. But at least as this proceeds, you are aware and clearly you're invited to be a part of that process. So that's why I wanted to talk about the Strategic Action Plan. The plan is just paper in words. What makes it come alive or adults, students, community members working toward these  outcomes.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Rebecca.

[R9315-352] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: change the 14th to the seventh and I would notify parents ASAP, because this calendar has been in their hands until early May. But then I also wish to have Corey take over, because there's also a discussion about how that change impacts other things.
TEXT> So it was my error, not Middleton's, that screwed up the dates. So if you're upset about that, you can direct all those inquiries to me. Oversight on my part.  But the parent teacher conferences were scheduled the day before the voting day to try to condense the, That condensed the time off. Yes. Thank you. So, what we would like to suggest is move the parent teacher conference to the week before as well. So the week of November 6th, he would have parent teacher conferences on the sixth, no school for students voting day on the seventh, no school for students  on voting day and no school for teachers. And then the Friday that week is the observance of Veteran's Day. And then the following week, the week of the 13th to the 17th, there would be school for a straight five days, which would be the only week,  pretty much in November. That is a full week. So one of the issues with moving the parent teacher conferences a week earlier is that originally we had closed the first quarter on the third, and so if the quarter closes that Friday to turn around and have report cards available on that Monday is a challenge.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So most likely we will change that quarter end date as well. It's not an issue necessarily at the elementary level where report cards aren't distributed at the end the

[R9315-353] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: the issues with moving the parent teacher conferences a week earlier is that originally we had closed the first quarter on the third, and so if the quarter closes that Friday to turn around and have report cards available on that Monday is a challenge.
TEXT> So most likely we will change that quarter end date as well. It's not an issue necessarily at the elementary level where report cards aren't distributed at the end the first quarter, but for the the middle school and the high school level, it's more of an issue.  But what we're suggesting, as Middleton indicated, is having the sixth and the seventh as days off for students in the calendar instead of the 13th and the 14th.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So you're going to change the quarter.

[R9315-355] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So you're going to change the quarter.
TEXT> We're going to bump back the report card reporting period, so the teachers will have a little bit of time to get that information in for the quarter closing. So quarter one, I think we have right now at roughly 43 days, we try to balance each of the quarters.  And so we instead of having the quarter closed on that Friday, we quite possibly will have the quarter closed on the the Wednesday before that. That gives enough time to, physically prepare the report cards for the levels that distribute an actual report card. At the elementary level, we don't distribute a report card. At the end of quarter one, the parent teacher conference is focused on a conversation around a child's growth,  and more of a narrative between the teacher and the parent about what the child is doing, as opposed to the report card.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: He's like 50 IEPs and making sure that my turnaround time was done before, before that. But it seems to be enough time.

[R9315-393] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: need further discussion. And I will say that I'm. I want to make sure the teachers are on board with it, obviously, because that's that's what they get. But if they if they are okay with it, we'll see it again anyway. So okay, that's.
TEXT> I do know we have parents already trying to plan their child care for days that school is not in session. So  that's why I feel.
NEXT> Unidentified: Completely important.

[R9315-401] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> So you're looking at about 300 people would be a very large training group.  We also know that there's research out there that indicates  that high school students might perform better with a slightly later start. So we'd like to consider for this year something different than we've done in the past for our early release days and have elementary school students come in at their normal time, their normal start time of 830, and they would have regular a modified schedule for the day. So if they have. Reading, math, writing,  science and art on that day and lunch, they would still have all of those things, just a shorter length of those different content areas, and they'd have their modified schedule. They'd be here in the morning, and then the elementary school students would go home, and the high school students would come in in the afternoon, and they'd have a modified schedule for the afternoon. So, we would have smaller groups of teachers and paraprofessionals for the training modules, so we would be able to train high school teachers and, and middle school teachers and paraprofessionals in the morning, and then they would teach in the afternoon, and then we'd be able to to to train elementary school teachers and paraprofessionals in the afternoon. It.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's a great idea.

[R9315-403] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: It's a great idea.
TEXT> It's a little different than what we've done in the past. The other thing we're working on is with Green Mountain Childcare and some others in town. Can we offer to families, particularly those of elementary school students, if they if they use their older child for daycare? Is there another way we could provide families with that care and have Green Mountain childcare potentially, or someone else run, you know, a half day camp for kids? So we're working on some different solutions for families for that as well, because not everybody has that kind of flexibility in their schedule where they can have their kids with them for half a day. We don't have that piece ironed out yet. But what we'd like to propose is that elementary school students would come in the morning and then go home. High school students would be at home in the morning and then come in the afternoon.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So that's the only change, really. Is the high school part of it? Because all kids would be coming anyway.

[R9315-404] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member, first-year ('newbie' [164-166]; recogni | 2017-09-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: day. We don't have that piece ironed out yet. But what we'd like to propose is that elementary school students would come in the morning and then go home. High school students would be at home in the morning and then come in the afternoon.
TEXT> So that's the only change, really. Is the high school part of it? Because all kids would be coming anyway.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Release days would be pretty much as they always have been. It would just be the high school, high school and middle school. I say high school, but correct high

[R9315-405] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So that's the only change, really. Is the high school part of it? Because all kids would be coming anyway.
TEXT> Release days would be pretty much as they always have been. It would just be the high school, high school and middle school. I say high school, but correct high school and middle school. Who would come in the afternoon?  So the change for families would be for their middle school and high school students. And then if families use their middle and high school students to watch younger children on half days or.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So, middle schoolers might be home in the morning and then the bus or however they would get to school. Normally that's what would happen for the afternoon. So parents

[R9315-414] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - attribution by elimination: | 2017-09-06
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And the concern still is the child care.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R9315-429] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Superintendent replies 'Frank is right' | 2017-09-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And I like that you're looking into options for people who may not have the option to figure it out like I do, so I like that.
TEXT> This is the the third time in two different districts that the conversation of late entry for high school kids has come up  on my watch. And, the obstacle is always the same. And, it's always, how's it been phrased, custodial concerns as opposed to educational concerns always derail that.  And I'm glad that I think it was trying to  get back online. But someone said it is mean. It was you, Brian. It is. It is about education and what's best practice in not in giving people plenty of time to worry about the custodial piece. But, that's all has this will be the third conversation. First to always custodial.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If you look. Thank you for bringing that up. Because if you look at and we can pull the attendance data, if you have a high school student who is

[R9315-430] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Superintendent asks 'Corey' to take o | 2017-09-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: it is mean. It was you, Brian. It is. It is about education and what's best practice in not in giving people plenty of time to worry about the custodial piece. But, that's all has this will be the third conversation. First to always custodial.
TEXT> If you look. Thank you for bringing that up. Because if you look at and we can pull the attendance data, if you have a high school student who is  not somebody who gets out of bed easily in the morning, because at a lesson development in the case that that can be a challenge at times, you know, if they sleep in or or if they  have just one block, maybe of a study hall and then a, a  block of instruction in the morning, and they're only there for half day. How many of them are saying it's just a half day? I'm not going to bother because I already slept through the first block or the second block. Hopefully we alleviate  that with an afternoon, but I don't know. We'll we'll have to look at the data. It's an opportunity to kind of follow our strategic plan, look at academic learning structures a little differently. Try it, get feedback on it, make an adjustment.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9315-441] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member, first-year ('newbie' [164-166]; recogni | 2017-09-06
PREV> Chris Irish: is ridiculous. When they get the real world, that's rude. Awakening. If we start letting them go to school at night, get your butt out of bed and go to school like the rest of us did there, I said it couldn't find my tongue.
TEXT> It is research based, though, that children do do better when they start later.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It's funny, we have plenty of kids that do very well in that same research, so I just don't buy it for a second to put out of bed and

