[R9682-433] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> There is a change between high school 17 and high school 18.  High school 17. We took every ninth grader and every 10th grader, and we had them take the assessment, whether they had an English class or a math class or not. In the high school, we are currently in a block schedule, so you might have an English class fall semester and you might not have one spring semester. So you could be assessed and never have had an English class or a math class. And that would be reflected here for the 17 data. For the 18 data, we changed how we did business, and in the 18  data set, we only assessed students who were enrolled in a class. So if you were enrolled in an English nine or an English class ten, you were assessed at the beginning of that class and you were assessed at the end of that class. If you were enrolled in a math class, up through geometry, you were assessed at the beginning of that class anywhere assessed at the end of that class. So we didn't have that same scenario where you might not be currently taking a course yet. You were assessed on it. So we changed how we did business. That could be reflected in this data here.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So needs analysis by grade. The other piece of data that this particular assessment collects is on these different domains. Where are we the strongest. Where are we the weakest

[R9682-441] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> Sound, but this is grade one, so these are grade one students. When they took the test in January. This was the. Same group of students when they took the test.
NEXT> Jason Benware: For all of Claremont.

[R9682-444] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: That's consistent for.
TEXT> Grade. One across this is bluff September January. This is Disney September January. Maple, September. Maple and January. Same group of kids for grades two, three, four and five. It's a little.
NEXT> Unidentified: Bit different. This is the current.

[R9682-448] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: That took.
TEXT> The test in January. This was those same students when they were in first grade and took the test last January. January 2017.
NEXT> Paul: So what does a.

[R9682-457] Unidentified | Unidentified - staff voice explaining i-Ready test behavior [695-697]  | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: Deficiency in being able to do certain tasks.
TEXT> That this is a level. And then your students fall somewhere on that. You then see on your SAT score. Weird. What percentile or student fell in in that compared to every other kid in the United States, about a 1 to 100 scale? No.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I didn't hear what you said. No, it's not international, it's national, and it's based on our, like, weekend selected. It's based off of our New Hampshire standards. So that's

[R9682-459] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: district level, because it seems to be as accurate, if not more accurate than anything else we have. It seems to be supported by the other data points that we have to be accurate. And so we. We. Have chosen to rely. On this one.
TEXT> So again, for math, the blue highlight means that there has been growth for that group of students from last year to this year. So now you see the line shifted down right. Fourth grade is now part of that blue highlight. That's when we implemented the Math and Focus program. So those students have had the benefit of the program for their first through fourth career. Again, there's a couple of pockets where  you didn't see that, but if you look at it globally, you can see that there's a pretty clear distinction there. Sixth through eighth and ninth and 10th. So it gets much sportier,  less consistent. After fourth grade. The domains in math, just like there were domains in reading, numbers and operations, algebra and algebraic thinking, measurement and data and geometry. For first and second grade, the highest area of need is measurement and data. But for third grade and up it's predominantly geometry.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's the.

[R9682-467] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: you are more, wise to spend your dollars if you have limited resources early on because you get a greater return on those dollars of investment versus spending them later on, where it's just a 1 to 1 return or or 1 to 2 returns.
TEXT> And so our title one services, we've pulled them away from grades four and five and concentrated them in K through three, because we have a limited pool of resources and there's a greater return on investment. And I'll be talking about that in my next presentation. What we're using those monies for moving forward. But that's another factor that's in play here. Special education identification. Some of our grade levels have a higher number of identified students than others in particular buildings. So you might see that a particular grade level has really grown a lot, but they may have a different makeup  in their classroom than others. Instructional practices, supplement or supplemental programs, teacher assignments. All of these are factors that could be influencing this data, but I want us to continue to think of it through the lens of just a global snapshot. Is our curriculum working? Are our  investments working? Are we making progress? And initially it looks like the answer to all of those is, is yes.  I think that often. First, I'll say that through the recent budget process and through the election process,  I think that the the budget and financial health of our district is a very important topic to a lot of people.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We don't always come back to say how those dollars spent return in terms of an impact on student learning, it's easy to see dollars spent in a roof. It's

[R9682-469] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: Growth is the other look. And I'm going to talk about that more if we can just go right into questions for this one. And then I'll go right into the next one and really get into why growth matters. So any questions on proficiency?
TEXT> I have one. So one of the other variables and in my mind is student engagement with the assessment itself. And are they are they trying on the test is.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: A different answer depending on which level you ask. And so we're working on, on strategies to improve that in the areas in which it may not seem like they

[R9682-470] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: I have one. So one of the other variables and in my mind is student engagement with the assessment itself. And are they are they trying on the test is.
TEXT> A different answer depending on which level you ask.   And so we're working on, on strategies to improve that in the areas in which it may not seem like they are trying as much. And so how do we motivate students to try? One motivating factor for students, in terms of  whether or not they try is the other component of irony. Not only is it a diagnostic assessment, but it's also an instructional resource. So it's a it's an online instructional resource, and it's part of our intervention program across the district. And so if you don't try on the diagnostic assessment and your score is much lower than your ability, when you are then assigned by your teacher to go on to your eye ready instruction and have your, you know, 15, 20, 40 minutes, whatever it is on your instructional module, the questions and content that you're going to get are going to be much lower than your ability, and it's going to be probably not as engaging for you. And so we've been able to motivate some students by saying, look, if you try, then your lessons on the other side of this are going to be at your level. They're going to be more engaging. They're going to be more rewarding for you. If you don't try, then you're going to end up with the baby lessons, which is what some of our middle schoolers call it.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And that's going to continue to happen if you, you know, if you're not demonstrating what you know here. I think it's been more of an issue at middle school.

[R9682-471] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: are going to be at your level. They're going to be more engaging. They're going to be more rewarding for you. If you don't try, then you're going to end up with the baby lessons, which is what some of our middle schoolers call it.
TEXT> And that's going to continue to happen if you, you know, if you're not demonstrating what you know here. I think it's been more of an issue at middle school. Paulette could speak to that than it has been at the elementary level as kids get older. Some of the graphics for our older students aren't as engaging as they are for our younger students, but we're working through different strategies to keep that up and to try to convey the importance of it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Other questions for Corey. Before we move on to the next segment, let's go the timer.

[R9682-475] Unidentified | Unidentified - staff voice explaining i-Ready test behavior [695-697]  | 2018-03-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: This big red.
TEXT> Stop sign comes up. And it tells us when a student is not, participating and really with diligence on that test.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And the rocker can go over and see what's going on. So for some of those students who might just filling in the blanks or rushing through it will stop

[R9682-480] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (re-elected vice chair [49]; LeClair | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: It's much more digestible for for families and for teachers, for everybody. It's a much more user friendly program than what we had before, for sure.
TEXT> I will say my kids are kind of over it, and I don't think that that has anything to do with teaching. I think I took them to Disney World and it was the most magical place on Earth, and by 4:00 they wanted to go back to the pool and go swimming. So I don't think it has anything to do with teaching, but I think it's just good to keep in mind, like, it sounds like you guys are having strategies on way to address that. So, you know, by the time they get to seventh grade and they've been doing it for a few years, it's just,  you know, something to think about. And that's not a slam on anybody. But it's just good to at least have that information as well. I think.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I just, I'm looking forward to this going on for several years in a row without switching, because what I noticed with my own daughter was that there were other

[R9682-489] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: are intensive and in need of further intervention in order to just get to grade level. So our problem is we just have a number of our kindergarten students who don't have the foundational skills they need to be successful in first grade and beyond.
TEXT> There's a lot of potential impact of this increased number of students who become identified for special education, increased costs for intervention. It's much more costly to intervene later on than it is. You don't get the same return on your investment later on than you do when they're really young. And their brains start shedding neurons around age nine, so your brain stops its ability to learn things the same way at around age nine. So that's another thing to be aware of. And our achievement gaps will continue to persist. And what we've seen historically is our achievement gaps between those who are proficient, who are on grade level, who are ready, and those who are not continue to get wider and wider and wider as you go up in the grades.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Corey, what percentage of the 5% are kids who are especially kids or have IEPs or receive interventions other than.

[R9682-492] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (re-elected vice chair [49]; LeClair | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: In kindergarten or district wide?
TEXT> You said 5%. Can you say that again? About the 5%. You said 5% of kids were still intensive needs and. One fifth, one one fifth, sorry.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: 20%.

[R9682-503] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: for students who are so far behind and other ways we can intervene for those students, we're really talking about those students who are on the cusp. They need some additional support in order to be ready and looking at that mid-range group of kids.
TEXT> The idea of moving on when ready learning becomes a constant, not the time. So once they already, you know, they're not quite ready at the end of kindergarten to move on to first grade, but with a little bit more support over the summer than they are ready to move on to first grade out of kindergarten because they have those skills that they need. At the end of this, the idea of providing additional intensive intervention now in order to prevent needing remediation and in an intervention that's much more costly and much more time consuming later on down the road, and the idea of data driven decision making. So we will use the I ready assessment with these students in the summer to understand where they start and where they end, and measure that. We will use our assessment based on where they start and where they end. The selection criteria will be based on data, and the programing will be based on where the individual students areas of need and addressing those individual areas of need. So I've mentioned some of these. Also looking at the end of kindergarten standards, their performance and response to intervention groups. You know, if if  a student has been in a in a response to intervention model in the school and they're doing really well in a particular  reading program during that intervention time, then we would want to continue that particular work with them over the summer.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so just paying attention to those things, we'd also look at teacher referral homeless status, because that's a criteria for title one that we provide services for our homeless

[R9682-505] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: other factors would have a different weight to them. That's how title one requires it to be done. So that's not a quarry is just making this up criteria. But that's the rank order that we follow based on what the title one criteria are.
TEXT> The instructional focus won't be broad. It's not going to be, all of the specials. It's not going to be all, you know, deep dive into lots of different content areas. It's going to be focused on reading language and math. Those are the deficit areas that we're seeing, and that's where the instruction will be focused. And I think it will be important to not only measure the effectiveness for the individual children, but it will be important to measure the effectiveness of this program. So this will be a pilot year. And then from this year forward, we will want to know, is this something we continue. We're not continue. And what what bang for our buck to be get out of it. Did it make a difference for kids and what did that look like. So we will use the we have an intervention program called Do the Math. It has its assessments built into it. We will use those assessments and the I ready as well. We're planning on six weeks and start the week after school gets out. Take the week of July 4th off because most many folks are on vacation during that week. It end that first week of August. That would be a typical instructional day, 830 to 3, and the teacher day would not include a period during that time. Their prep period would be after that, they'd clearly get their 30 minute lunch.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: But it's a it's a different focus. It's a different dynamic. So it's really instructional heavy. We would provide lunch with the community lunch program that has been offered in

[R9682-508] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: of time, to have helped them close that gap and have those foundational skills necessary to be successful. For those students who potentially aren't ready at that time, then we need to talk about a few different options, and we haven't fleshed that out yet.
TEXT> One could be they need to be referred, but for special education services, one could be that they need to be retained and repeat another year of kindergarten. One could be depending on numbers. We need to create a title one funded prefers program sort of a year between kindergarten and first grade. And we would fund that for the fall through title one dollars. And have a classroom of students who participate in that. So there's lots of other options for us to look at if a child or if a group of children don't make the progress that we hope for them to make during the summer. All right. Now for questions.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Steve.

[R9682-527] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: Oh great question. We can I will take that into consideration. Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. Second one and I'm a little confused is can title one be used for tutoring children that are out of school for various reasons, regardless to what they are? I know.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not necessarily. It depends on. No, not necessarily.

[R9682-540] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yep. They have a three and a four year old program.
TEXT> Right. So I I'm, I'm kind of maybe just not understanding. But now we're trying to develop more programs with the title one money for the summer for more children that are in the same age bracket is nope.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's a different age bracket.

[R9682-543] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So you're so you're going with the higher ups.
TEXT> The older kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yep.

[R9682-548] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Right? Because I kind of thought that was part of it. I guess I was misunderstood.
TEXT> This is for students who are in kindergarten now before they go to first grade. Okay?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Like.

[R9682-559] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: know, not just in the schools, but other places where there are things that are grant funded. We're sort of accustomed to them, and then they may be disappearing. And all of a sudden we're like, how do we live without these? So I guess.
TEXT> I think that's a valid point. I think that of all of the title funds, title one is the most stable. It has consistently been the most stable. And it's a risk that we are taking. Absolutely. But I guess my counter to that would be, if it works for the 54 kids potentially this summer, and we're able to do it for three more years because title one funding stays,  stays stable. Then that's four years worth of 54 kids that we've made a difference. And now we have that benefit on the back side. It's a gamble for sure.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Where I'm just curious, where where is it allocated from? I mean, who in the grand scheme of it all. Okay, but.

[R9682-563] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: Well, I guess I know it comes from the federal government, but I'm saying when it when is it voted on or who decides whether or not you're deserving of it?
TEXT> So the state of New Hampshire does it through a formula. And I believe I believe title one across the country is done through formula. So it's not competitive. It's based on things such as your enrollment numbers, your average daily attendance, the number of free and reduced lunch students you have. Each of those things are factored into a very lengthy formula. I believe the formula is published on the Doe website. And that's how it's allocated. So,  I don't know. I don't know all of the details about how. You know, if the federal government, there's a difference between what they approve and what they allocate. And so for instance, title two I think is still approved, but the allocation for funding for title two money from the federal government is in jeopardy with the current administration. And so it's unclear whether or not that's going to continue. I don't know. I don't know what leverage or control we have over that. But I don't think much of it is housed at the state level, based on the legislation in place that created title one.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Well, let me be clear. I think this is good. I just like to know or at least have an idea as to where the money is coming from. I'm

[R9682-588] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Placed at the school board? I don't think so.
TEXT> Maybe I'd like to look at something about tutoring so that people don't slip through the cracks. Children don't slip through the cracks. Sure.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Are we so. So if I if I may do go back to Michelle Pierce's comment about school board ethics. So I will, the the school board policies are updated

[R9682-753] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Steve' [774 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the board wishes to have a specific time length, we could add that generally the policy or it's up to my discretion if the board would like it to be more explicit with with a few sentences, I could certainly add that certainly add that.
TEXT> Just thinking about the time it takes to investigate issues at times and thinking about due process, the time somebody complains about something, by the time it makes its way to your desk or to the  administration's desk  of the school. I'm thinking that we should probably say that it's a minimum of a 28 day recording cycle, to be quite honest, just for time of due process that way that if there is tangible evidence of an ongoing issue, we can supply enough days worth of that issue to justify whatever's happening. As far as consequence, whether it's, you know, staff related, student related, whatever. At that point, I think a 28 day lapse would be.
NEXT> Unidentified: The.

[R9682-766] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Steve' [774 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: As.
TEXT> Far as bullying goes, it does happen on the school busses as well. And if we can show a complete pattern over a 28 day lapses, where I was thinking on the lines where I was going with it, because in order to pattern and identify individuals that are committing acts against another another student, we want to have as much information because we also might not see in the first ten days that student A that's playing the victim card today was really a perpetrator two weeks before. That's those are just some concerns, specially with bullying being a heavy issue. And I know it happens on the busses.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Always have.

[R9682-795] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: I second okay.
TEXT> Okay I will start I, I do have a couple discussion items. J. J I see d. Which is 93 and Eric. And I'm thinking in terms of, kids lawyering up, and I'm specifically looking at number two.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: JICD.

[R9682-802] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Okay.
TEXT> Got it. Number two. Yes. Removal from the classroom means the student is sent to the principal's office. And I don't think that's always true.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So that's correct.

[R9682-817] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: I like the district. Okay.
TEXT> There's another one. And I didn't put the. Number down, fortunately. But I'll read it and maybe somebody else can find it. It says here that if I'm the principal and I'm going to suspend a kid for ten days, I need to consult with you, the superintendent, first.
NEXT> Unidentified: Is that the case? That is the case.

[R9682-851] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: That'd be interesting.
TEXT> This is for all grades. This isn't just because you have children that are being suspended in kindergarten and first grade. Yeah. So this is this this is this article isn't just going to cover the high school children. This is going to cover a. All day.
NEXT> Unidentified: Use.

[R9682-853] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Use.
TEXT> Six children.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's defined in number one. It says, you know, to suspend a student for ten school days or less, gross misconduct, neglect or refusal to conform to school district policies

[R9682-854] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Jason' by t | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Six children.
TEXT> It's defined in number one. It says, you know, to suspend a student for ten school days or less, gross misconduct, neglect or refusal to conform to school district policies and rules. Beyond that, which I thought was kind of weird for ten days or more. Was there a problem with paintball guns at some point in time during when this stuff was written? Because there's a very specific  thing in here where it says to get ten days off or more, a long term suspension may be issued for an act of theft. Destruction or violence is defined in RSA chapter 1933 D  for possession of a pellet, paintball gun or BB gun or rifle is provided by RSA. Whatever. I just thought it was a very specific thing to have in there to to. You can be suspended for more than ten days if you have a paintball gun on school property. So I'm just wondering if there was a problem at some point in time that caused this to be written into their very.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Very s a Jason. It is actually an RSA.

[R9682-923] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: People in the.
TEXT> Facility use them. Isn't that correct? Other students use them and stuff.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Well, they should be.

[R9682-944] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: is tremendous. You know what our with our green footprint. But that that being said though, we will revisit it, but it represents a protocol that was put into place purchasing them and then having them here recharging. And there are times when they're used.
TEXT> By the students and we already are lacking in technology. And I think that's part of the reason why we had even voted. I think back then, Frank, if you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Think it was.

[R9711-25] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Discussion.
TEXT> I was reviewing the minutes. And if everybody could please focus on paragraph nine, section C.  It was one. This was when we were dealing with the policies.  There was an initial motion by Michelle Chairs. It was seconded by,  Michael. And then we went into discussion. That whole part of the discussion is missing, and therefore  we lost some stuff in translation. Regarding that discussion, initially,  Rebecca had asked about increasing the amount of donation amount required before having to bring it to the board. That's completely left out.  Then we we worked on the amendments to policy ECF, which I wanted to move to an action item tonight because it's not written as we went through.  I initially had requested that we make sure that it's involving appeals by students, staff and expulsions in a non public per the RSA. And then from there.  Rebecca went on to say, hey, let's think about lengthening. We came to a general consensus during that discussion of 28 days. The policy as,  I printed it off, is saying that it was adopted on the 21st at our meeting. Great.  The issue that we have is, is that it doesn't have the 28 day.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: It has the ten day still there. And it also in pertinent. Park says if an appeal hearing involving a student discipline matter is requested, the Claremont School Board may

[R9711-26] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: came to a general consensus during that discussion of 28 days. The policy as, I printed it off, is saying that it was adopted on the 21st at our meeting. Great. The issue that we have is, is that it doesn't have the 28 day.
TEXT> It has the ten day still there. And it also in pertinent. Park says if an appeal hearing involving a student discipline matter is requested, the Claremont School Board may view the recordings during the non public hearing.  The key thing that we also had there is the word that it's not just student. It could be staff because staffs can appeal to us and it also has to do with the expulsions. And it was very clearly worded. In that and if we needed to review, we could go to the  broadcasted  meeting from that date. And the discussion started at two hours and 58 minutes and 33 seconds.  To make those amendments as far as staff student expulsion and then,  the discussion around the 28 days was that three hours, zero minutes and 27 seconds by Rebecca and then,  at three hours and four minutes and 40s on the tape. We adopted it as amended.  Michelle,  initiated and I seconded. So those are just some missing pieces of those minutes that I think are very important, especially with the discrepancy on the policy.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Sure. Go ahead.

[R9711-49] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> Opposed? Okay. Thank you. Student representative report. Lexi.
NEXT> Lexi: So my apologies. I don't have a printed copy of my report, but I do have it on my phone. So my printer is having trouble today, and I didn't

[R9711-62] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-04-04
PREV> Lexi: parks competition on Saturday, May 5th. I'm a part of that too. So if you want to come see me again, I'll be over there. Nathan Savo, Karsten Klein, Stuber and Riley Dickinson attended Plymouth State University's All New England Jazz Festival on March 29th.
TEXT> They had only one day to rehearse as an ensemble and they put on a fantastic show. They were able to rehearse with the Plymouth State University, jazz professors and even students from all over New England.  So that's very exciting. I was part of an all New England choral festival a few months ago, so I know how much hard work that takes to put in for a 12 hour day of just playing and just singing all day long. So seniors are slowly making their final decisions on their college of choice for this fall semester.  This is an exciting, scary, and eventful time for all of us. And so we are all thankful for the support we receive from our friends, teachers, family, our guidance counselors.  So congratulations to those of my peers that have committed to their choice, and good luck to those who are at the final stretch. Last week, the German students who are taking part in the Gap program at Stevens landed in America.  A students and teachers are at Stevens are continuously welcoming these students with opening arms.  We are so excited to have them. Thank you, Mister Gary, for this wonderful opportunity that you have been able to give in. Yeah, that you have been able to give to everyone at Stevens.
NEXT> Lexi: A bluff update. Both elementary school had an all day, not an all day and all school assembly on March 22nd and the beginning of the assembly. Students were recognized

[R9711-63] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-04-04
PREV> Lexi: at Stevens are continuously welcoming these students with opening arms. We are so excited to have them. Thank you, Mister Gary, for this wonderful opportunity that you have been able to give in. Yeah, that you have been able to give to everyone at Stevens.
TEXT> A bluff update. Both elementary school had an all day, not an all day and all school assembly on March 22nd and the beginning of the assembly. Students were recognized for their outstanding integrity and effort. Those students who received an award for integrity are those who never cease to do the right thing, even when others aren't looking. Those students are kind, helpful, dependable, and respectful at all times. The students who were were awarded for their effort are those who never stopped striving to learn, even when it may become difficult for them. After the awards were presented, the fifth grade students taught by Mr. Mark Landry and Mr. David Skating, gave their presentation on the human body systems. The fifth graders made posters about the systems and then presented them. This presentation was interactive as the fifth graders were showing their fellow peers where certain bones and muscles were in their body.  A very short sports update.  Spring sports are now in full swing as softball, baseball, track, tennis, and other teams are practicing after school on a few days each week.  Stay tuned to hear more about the amazing athletes we have here in Claremont. And that's all I have.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9711-65] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> I just want to jump in with a quick footnote to the The Gap students. I was, I gave them a tour. I guess it was. It was a Monday morning.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, I think my.

[R9711-67] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, I think my.
TEXT> Time goes by. And so I gave them a tour of the city. And I want to thank the  shout out to the Claremont Police Department, the Claremont Fire Department, and Dori Russell at City Hall for  giving us a wonderful tour and welcome on no notice at all to any of them that made the  German students and their hosts, their teachers and me feel very, very welcome. So thank you. Claremont Fire, Claremont Police and City Hall. Thank you. Okay. Superintendents report. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I have the the flier.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: For mutually assured destruction. I'd like to pass it around to the board. As you can see, there are some great pictures in the back, but it also gives you

[R9711-71] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: That.
TEXT> If you recall, last last month I emailed a situation to you regarding our transportation, operation. And this week we began, we contracted a, an organization, Student Transportation Consulting of New England. And the whole purpose of that is very similar to a physical examination by by a doctor. You go to a doctor and you have a physical examination to see how well you are and to see if there's anything that you should improve on. Well, we're doing the same thing with our Claremont School District transportation.  The assessment will provide a complete examination of the school district's transportation system, reviewing existing policies, procedures, practices, and make recommendations for improvement in implementation. The analysis will have a concentration on safety to guarantee all school district policy, state and federal laws implemented and followed, perform a staffing assessment, and formulate recommendations for improvement and or training. Implement a system that will provide efficient routes. Lists of student names and times. Review work distribution to ensure all employees have an equal opportunity to obtain hours and our app creation and over site of RFP process and study the possibility of consortium of the surrounding school districts to be involved in the process. Which means instead of having a Claremont School District Transportation Department, could we  join other districts?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Could we? And there'll be a feasibility study with that. So there's nothing more important than the safety of our of our students and the wellness of our students. But

[R9711-83] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Jason Benware: So every every bus service around.
TEXT> Well what's happened is we used to have several bus. They used to be Student Transportation of America. They used to be for student. They used to be in the Butler Butler bus. But  it's down to Butler. They're the only ones really left in the area.
NEXT> Jason Benware: They don't want any more business.

[R9711-126] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> Big mainly we use those mainly for out of district transportation. If we have one kid going to retreat, we send a van up there. So that's basically what those bands do.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9711-196] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Cookies.
TEXT> It's a fundraiser. It's a fundraiser, and every chance I get to support students.  So I guess I should have been a marketer, but all.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: That, they did give out free samples a couple of weeks ago when I took a home. My dog loved them.

[R9711-206] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-04-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: Are they.
TEXT> It's it's amazing. Like, I love all of the life skills. Kids like little Rebecca, like, she comes around and like to the musical theater students, and she always, like, fist bumps us and like, tells us all good morning. And that we all look pretty and like, I love all of them. They're all awesome. But they come around with, like, this little cart every day for flex, and they come to each and every classroom and they're like, they're they're awesome. Like they're great little entrepreneurs. I love it. Like I buy everything I say, but my money, like specifically so I can be like, I can't wait for the life skills kids to come around with their little carts like my my coffee mug this week, but like, it's really like, that's what I look forward to every week. So yeah, they're really great.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any other citizens comments? Seeing none. Citizens comments are closed. Move on to discussion items.

[R9711-208] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Any other citizens comments? Seeing none. Citizens comments are closed. Move on to discussion items.
TEXT> All right. Yeah. Thank you. Extended Learning Opportunity Week is April 2nd to the sixth of the citation from Governor Sununu. And and I just want to share with you some some information from Christine Downey.  Thus far this year, 64 students have either completed or currently in progress with an extended learning opportunity. She has another 11 that are in the pre planning stages now. And that was last week. This will bring a total of 75 students. Stevens High School students who have either completed or in progress or being developed. And she also has a total of 25 that she is actively monitoring right now that are due to finish at the end of the school year. You've heard you've had a presentation of extended learning opportunities by Christine Downey and some students this year. It's a wonderful opportunity, especially when we have accurate measures, also known as competencies, where a student can demonstrate those competencies by being outside the public education box, if you will,  of the textbook and the classroom and the seat time. And so it's a it's a real plus. And it's a it's wonderful that we had the support to do that. And we certainly hope to be able to continue that in the future.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: An acronym is L Extended Learning Opportunity. So if you hear that in the future, I'll try to interject with acronyms because it is challenging. I was at a regional

[R9711-298] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: Okay.
TEXT> And what's interesting, I met with. The. I met with the bus drivers with Michael O'Neill earlier this week and, they know about the policy because they send out the policies. And they said, you know, with the busses, B bus backs being high and the students, not all of them being six feet,  you oftentimes can't see students. So I just wanted to let you know that we do not have audio recordings or do we do not have cameras on the busses. So just so you know that okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason.

[R9711-336] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: That Steve's talking about the word.
TEXT> I'm talking specific language. It's already there. We're just lacking a few words as far as I see it. It is specifically says involving student discipline matter as far as an appeal. But we also deal with expulsions for the school board side of things. And we there's also the the staff side. I mean, I'm looking at adding a whole three words.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, Frank. The New Hampshire state law, the school board, you are the appeal officers, whether it be bus drivers, student staff, principal, you are the appeal officer.

[R9711-337] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: it. It is specifically says involving student discipline matter as far as an appeal. But we also deal with expulsions for the school board side of things. And we there's also the the staff side. I mean, I'm looking at adding a whole three words.
TEXT> If I may, Frank. The New Hampshire state law,  the school board, you are  the appeal officers, whether it be bus drivers, student staff, principal, you are the appeal officer. So everything, every every employee has a right to do process. And that due process comes to you and you do. You are the the appeal  officers.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That's why I'm asking for the clarity. Just so the I mean, we're missing the word staff and expulsion. Those are the.

[R9711-341] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: As far as Timmy shows off a pistol in his backpack, you know, that's an expulsion offense. Obviously, we would want to see the showing it in the backpack.
TEXT> If I may, Frank, the school board has to approve an expulsion. The building administrators cannot expel without school board support. But when we just know that every every employee, every student, disciplinary action, revolving staff, students, everyone connected with the school district as an employee or as a student, they have due process. And that due process goes right to you.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I understand that fact. That's why I was just looking for the correct word in being in the policy.

[R9711-373] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Jason Benware: that we decide to make, it would be nice if there were things that we could make and implement so that it's done before the following school year resumes after the after summer. So getting to it before next school year I think is important.
TEXT> I will tell you if I may, Frank, this is a very, very important topic. And it's more than just the aggravation of frustration of of of adults and parents caring and dedicated the dots and parents regarding their children's headlights. It's also about the civil rights of students. And so that's an important topic to to consider. So I have some homework to do to provide you with  some information. I'm going to let the school nurses know that the first meeting in May we're going to have this discussion, Steven. We will publicize it.  So there will be no surprises with the community. Because I also would like to either go left to go right with this. I have my personal feelings about the policy, and I've had, I bet I have 6 or 7 conversation a year with with parents. But as you've heard me say, improvement isn't based on the needs of adults, is based on the needs of children. And so I just think it's important that we understand any decision, what that really involves. And the board, the board will have and you as a board, you can go, contrary to what the Department of Education recommends or what the American Pediatric Association, you can go contrary to that, that you're right as board members.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I also have interesting data that what other school districts are doing across New Hampshire. This is not a Claremont issue. This is a national issue. So I think I

[R9711-376] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, Middleton, are there any risks that we run, by having a let's say we had a contrary policy. Sure. We'll call it that. Are there okay. Office of Civil rights implications in any.
TEXT> I am not an attorney, but I will tell you that there has been case law where children because there is a there's a question about a child civil rights or a free and appropriate education. There is not data or research to show that lice decreases when you have an exclusionary policy. You have lice. Child leave until the lice are gone. They it seems to make sense that that would occur, but the data is not there to make that to support that. I would like to whoever, however, provide you. I will email you hopefully within the next week so that you can spend some time with  our policy. A survey of of New Hampshire school districts regarding this topic among the school nurses, as well as some fairly recent information, which I think I even sent the current the former board members, I think 2 or 3 weeks ago, I think it was during February vacation. I sent it to you. Send it. It's interesting.
NEXT> Jason Benware: In the process of doing that, I was wondering if you may be able to find out if there's any info out there about when, when, when trying to give

[R9711-377] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the school nurses, as well as some fairly recent information, which I think I even sent the current the former board members, I think 2 or 3 weeks ago, I think it was during February vacation. I sent it to you. Send it. It's interesting.
TEXT> In the process of doing that, I was wondering if you may be able to find out if there's any info out there about when, when, when trying to give everybody their proper civil rights. If when you're doing that for one person, if that infringes on the civil rights of others, if that is equally as, damning. So what I'm asking is simply if in our policies we do things so that everybody can be educated equally, but in the process, the the collateral damage is, is that 20 kids can't be educated on a certain day because they're being dealt with an issue that might have been solved had that one person been taken care of. I'm just curious if there's any data out there that suggests that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, Frank. Jason, I think that's a question for a lawyer. I don't know, I be uncomfortable answering that because, I don't know the answer.

[R9711-457] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Get them in a community college.
TEXT> Yes, it will get you into a community college.  It's much less specific as far as which for math classes you have to take or which three science classes, it gives you a broader spectrum. So the student who's, you know, not really on track to get into a four year institution wants to get into a career, wants to get into a certified program or a two year institution or a community college. They'll do fine with that 20 credit.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So basically I just want to make sure I'm hearing you correctly. The 23 and the the 20 will get you into a community college, and all students have the

[R9711-458] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2018-04-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: the student who's, you know, not really on track to get into a four year institution wants to get into a career, wants to get into a certified program or a two year institution or a community college. They'll do fine with that 20 credit.
TEXT> So basically I just want to make sure I'm hearing you correctly. The 23 and the the 20 will get you into a community college,  and all students have the option of determining which credits, which amount of credits they're going to shoot for.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right?

[R9711-466] Lexi | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Lexi. And then Steve.
TEXT> It's from a student's perspective, it's really easy to like, look at your program of studies, which I won't ever have to look at ever again, which I'm kind of thankful for because she don't talk about that yet. We're not there yet. But, it's really easy to look like the 27 credit,  diploma option. And then like, I know that like from my freshman year studies, like, it was like on the second page, like, so right there it was also like New Hampshire state scholars like what classes you need for that. And they do, like match up perfectly. So they only have to look at one thing like each time that you go to register for classes,  so or like sign up for classes. But it's super easy.
NEXT> Unidentified: So yeah. Steve.

[R9711-471] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: Well that's great. I mean, it's good to know that our that's kind of where I that that was more of a, you know, I want to see that our students are doing well and seeing those numbers. That makes me happy.
TEXT> Years ago Steve, we I think I was an administrator and came to the board with the 20 credit diploma. And, the board at that time was reluctant to implement that because they felt that it was a  a real watering down and a real,  compromise on, on expectations. And I informed the board at the time that nobody starts off intending to do the 20 credit diploma, pretty much when when I would sit with kids or the guidance counselors with kids,  I and we've got a guidance counselor here, I would say fully 100% aspire to the 27. Pretty much.  And then as Pat just said, things happen and and some compromise with the, the 23. But the rare, rare, rare example is the 20 because that's, that's the student that's really had a hard time and there aren't that many. And that's sort of a fallback position for them to, to that.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So some. Nope. Sorry.

[R9711-474] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (takes minutes after the clerk leaves) | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead.
TEXT> Cory, just some students who choose to take courses at the Newport CD center  or  perhaps would pursue a running start course at the college or something of that nature  that prohibits them from taking some courses at Stevens High School just because of scheduling issues. So that could be another reason why a 27 credit diploma could not or may not.
NEXT> Unidentified: Be achieved.

[R9711-646] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yep. Nope. Okay. Keep going.
TEXT> If you talk slower core eight minutes. Better if you go to column two, row C, school bus replacement 39,000 that passed 620 to 307. Roofing improvements D 200,000 that passed 762 to 170. So the total of the warrants if you go to the bottom is 352004 ten. If you look at the miss 2200 distributed first page of the signature page. Second page. Is the beginning of your expenditure breakout. The difference between this and the miss 26, which is the budget form that we post, is we have to break out everything between elementary, middle and high school in this form where  we don't have on every other form. So if you if you look at page three at the bottom and the column says appropriations as voted, three five,  204 ten, which ties back to the other document. And like I said, the only difference here is that the the breakout, the reclassification, now certain expenditures, we know what they are. Because if a person works just at Bluff School, they work just at plus school, certain other expenditures, districtwide expenditures, say you we allocate based on ADM which is average daily membership. So what I do is I take the number of students in the elementary, middle and high school for the prior year, use that as the basis of allocation, because I have no way to really know exactly what those district wide expenditures are.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: On the on the back page page for additional information that they require is on certain things, such as out of district placement, tuition. So if you look at the

[R9711-675] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: page of this. And by the way, parents were told then the offering the opportunity to opt out. On page two of this memo, there's an overview of the health curriculum and the elementary school. You can see the sexual abuse prevention lessons for children.
TEXT> This is the first year this program has been  offered. This is not required by law. This is not students do not have to take this program. So if a child's parent wishes for them to opt out, we don't have to supply a supplemental program dealing with human sexuality. At the Element Middle School. You can see the curriculum in grade six, grade seven, and grade eight. Likewise, parents do have the opportunity to opt out of any objectionable material because it is not. Health is not required in grades six through eight. If a parent wishes their son or daughter to opt out of a particular topic, then that can occur in an alternative opportunity would be provided. But it doesn't have to be related to health. However, things change at the high school level. At the high school level curriculum, you can see there is a health education program offered for five health credit, as well as a health seminar offered. Now, with the exception of the high school health, health education is not a requirement, but it is a requirement for high school students in New Hampshire to graduate. So what I have done.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Basically, is to take our two current policies and made some recommended revisions. With the exception of high school health, education is not a requirement. So I made some revisions.

[R9711-682] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Right?
TEXT> Right. And so so the state can say, you should do this and do that. But  the question of of staffing and funding. So what I am proposing is the following to you. Because. We at the a parent can opt out of a particular topic in the elementary and middle, and there is no liability as far as the student advancing. There is no state requirement at the high school level. There is a state requirement for graduation and so on. Policy IHAM I'm making a recommended adjustment. And this is the opt out procedure that parent guardians who wish to have their child opt out of such instruction of required to complete  the opt out for, which is also attached. An elementary and middle school student who is exempt will be given an alternative activity. There is no state mandate that we are any particular for high school graduation requirement for graduation to complete public education that they must have in elementary and middle school health experience at the high school. Student who is exempt will complete an extended learning opportunity sufficient to meet state requirements. So the state requirements, are not there for us to be required to provide an alternative health related activity.
NEXT> Unidentified: So sorry.

[R9711-684] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: So sorry.
TEXT> Sorry. And then if you notice on I am, the one adjustment is adding the we care and care for kids elementary school curriculum. So there was some discussion that if a parent opts out, we must provide an alternative health instruction in the elementary in the middle. That's not correct. And the law does not require us to. At the high school it does. However, since Pat Perry has been here. There had been no parents who have opted out of the high school health education program, but if they were, we would provide an extended learning opportunity.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to ask a really quick question, then I'll get to you. So I'm going to so is an L synonymous with.

[R9711-688] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sorry it.
TEXT> Could be or an extended learning opportunity. It could be a V lax or it could be another, academic exposure that would suffice with the state requirement, where the student would not sit in.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The latitude when reading this for high school kids that they're not not locked into an l o when they could find a black experience.

[R9711-689] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Could be or an extended learning opportunity. It could be a V lax or it could be another, academic exposure that would suffice with the state requirement, where the student would not sit in.
TEXT> The latitude when reading this for high school kids that they're not not locked into an l o when they could find a black experience.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: For there could be another experience if it fits the requirements of the state.

[R9711-695] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (takes minutes after the clerk leaves) | 2018-04-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: What were you.
TEXT> Virtual learning academy charter school. So V is a public school in the state of New Hampshire for which any student can take courses. And they offer everything from health education to chemistry to algebra. Everything you could if you chose to be a complete 100% online high school student in the state of New Hampshire, ellos are extended learning opportunities. Those can,  a student could get credit to take any to take a black course online, or they could  develop a different project  that fulfills the curriculum requirements and graduation requirements of the health content. That was wouldn't necessarily be a Vlachs course. So they're not synonymous.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But my point is that.

[R9711-709] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. So the other part of this was when they're opting out. The reason why I feel like this should be looked at from the other side that maybe hasn't, is the fact that some children have already gone through that abuse. So putting them back into a class like that can be, actually not good. It could cause, you know, triggers and things. So I just wanted to make sure that, that, that I'm understanding it correctly. If, if, if I choose to have my son opt out of those courses due to my personal feelings that he's already gone through some traumatic events, that it would be covered under there, again, this would.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So parents can opt out for whatever reason they choose. Correct.

[R9711-711] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So parents can opt out for whatever reason they choose. Correct.
TEXT> So I'm trying to make it so that it isn't just. But when it was I what I heard was is that some kids would have to pay. So I was confused. And they took all that out now. So good because all kids matter. And I just want to also make sure that we understand that sometimes when parents are signing these forms, it might be because they've already been through these tragedies and and.
NEXT> Unidentified: Parents.

[R9711-715] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Curriculum.
TEXT> And parents will be able to opt out. If they opt out, there'll be an alternative activity unrelated to what the parent wished the child to be opted out of. At the high school level, they'll be an alternative extended learning opportunity that meets the state requirement.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Or an alternative.

[R9711-736] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So quick, quick thing though. I want to make sure that that the high school language is, is inclusive beyond yellow again, so that guidance counselors have that latitude to look at a variety of means by which these students can get their health credit.
NEXT> Unidentified: So we just need to change.

[R9711-743] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Hi guys.
TEXT> So what I want to make sure in this policy is that when we've got a student who opt out of, of the health curriculum, that you have enough latitude in the policy that you can look at an l o you can look at V lax or some other means by which that student can make that health credit.
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't want to speak for the high school. Or my department. Because that's above my pay grade. But I mean, I believe it does. And if a student does

[R9711-744] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School staff member (health) called to the | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: a student who opt out of, of the health curriculum, that you have enough latitude in the policy that you can look at an l o you can look at V lax or some other means by which that student can make that health credit.
TEXT> I don't want to speak for the high school. Or my department. Because that's above my pay grade. But I mean, I believe it does. And if a student does opt out of a class, it would, you know, we would have a meeting with the curriculum director, specialist administration, the parent and the student, and we would develop a plan that all of us would agree on that would meet the competency. It wouldn't just be me making that decision. It'd be a team decision, so to speak.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Excellent.

[R9711-784] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: There would.
TEXT> Be what how do the professionals and the buildings feel about, student use of cell phones? And do they see that as a positive or negative as far as their ability to teach and kids to attend? So I think it'd be an interesting conversation. Carolyn.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: A dynamic to that would be. I'd like to know how, you know, how do you follow up on the policy? Is it everybody's using enforcement policy reinforcement aspect.

[R9711-794] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the meeting; Benware: 'Frank, you k | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: However. I I'm what I'm hearing you talk about are we can. Correct that my choice of words. But are we consistent with the policy as a district.
TEXT> And I heard one of the, one of the comments that I heard back in the, the budget season and other follow ups, I guess it was not the budget. It was more in follow up to,  the, the student protests around the school shootings in parkland. Yeah. That, I received input from community members. That and again, different people's points of view. Not not my own that, have we looked into the role of bullying. And cyber bullying and such as being a contributor to school violence? And so I think that I think it's a, it's a  cell phones are part of a bigger you know, if we're talking climate and culture, I think cell phones are a big piece of that.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And the other thing I'd kind of like to know, and I don't know if this is procedural or if it if there's rules involved with it, is what are

[R9711-797] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (takes minutes after the clerk leaves) | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: It and.
TEXT> Related to surveying students. There are no rules, to my understanding, around surveying adults.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay?

[R9715-229] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Who decides the percentage of what is paid by who.
TEXT> It has directly to do with number of students.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: In.

[R9715-246] Jason Benware | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) | 2018-03-29
PREV> Unidentified: I just.
TEXT> Couldn't help but notices I'm looking down through this for the our goals for our elementary grades one through five, for reading versus Unity's goals. Is that simply because our numbers are so different? I mean, so they're looking for 90% of students meeting growth targets, and we're only looking for 80%.
NEXT> Unidentified: So each.

[R9715-256] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Unidentified: The middle.
TEXT> And I just to add to what Middleton said, we had all talked about these a bunch of few years ago and that last number four goal in that we also talked about, you know, you know, colleges, trade schools. But we talked a lot about, in this room, we talked a lot about the fact that we have a lot of lower income families who don't necessarily engage in or a or spend a lot of time encouraging their children to pursue because they're afraid of the financial responsibilities in those pieces. And one, a part of the school was increasing awareness for children and families about financial aid and access and ability to attend, because we felt like that was really important component of increasing students ability to access post-high school education. So that was that felt really big to a lot of us that were sitting in this room at that time.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9715-278] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-03-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Okay, so it just seemed like a I don't know.
TEXT> I Michelle, it is a lot of work. It is a lot of work. But and it would be easier for me if I dealt with them as a group, which we do two thirds of the time, but I can really grind in to the individual building and be more supportive of the individual building and building principals, the teachers and ultimately the students. If it's one on one. So they do that to unity and all the Claremont schools individually. Yes, it is work, but I feel I can have a greater impact and be more supportive and collaborative. And there's something else to,  it's important that I had the opportunity to interact with the students, as well as the faculty on these individual meetings and the buildings, and I do that. And it gives me a better lens as to what's going on. It's like it's that's the scope, if you will, over time. So yes, it is work,  but,  I feel it's very beneficial for all parties to make that commitment.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[R9715-291] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Unidentified: He. Meets with each.
TEXT> School because each school is indeed its own entity and its own community. And I think you need to foster that. But he also meets with the principals together and the district together to exchange ideas in an open and honest and direct way. And I think that's where the community benefits as well. And so I think what he's doing right now brings the best of both worlds into it. I mean, you do have individual buildings, and you do have to foster that sense of ownership and pride in the students and the professional staff. But you also bring everybody together to exchange ideas as a larger community as well, just as we do on this school board between Unity and Claremont.  So I think the best of both worlds is there.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Absolutely agree. I'm not. I just wanted to understand. I feel that we kind of need to look at honestly in Claremont regardless to the financial to that. And it's

[R9715-302] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-03-29
PREV> Sara Lowe: School has their own set of individualized goals as well.
TEXT> To to Michelle's point, each school is very different than the other school. And each school has its own culture, its own strengths, and its own challenges. But we need to just because a school, we have three elementary schools in Claremont, just because we have three schools in one community, don't think those three schools are connected. Don't think that the curriculum and instruction in those three schools are going to be aligned with each other. Without that type of support in the district sense. And so that's why we we are not it would be wrong to have a district where we're going to have three elementary schools at three different portions of the community, and they're going to be clones of each other. But where a child goes to school also  should not determine the caliber of their instruction or the quality of their learning. And so that that's where the importance of us as a district GA.  So a child's zip code, or let me change that. A child's address does not determine their math skills, their reading skills, their ability to write. And I will share with you, 17 years ago, in a community on the South Shore of Massachusetts, there were five elementary schools rather than assistant superintendent, and the grade six teachers could tell in the fall what school those grade six children came from, by their mass skills and by their writing skills.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And so over a period of three years, we erased that by having a cross district support and clarity, supporting instruction and curriculum work. So, but to to Rebecca's point,

[R9715-322] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Or you could email me, maybe. Sure. I would love to see the measurement part. I'm big.
TEXT> And some of it is not necessarily in that report. Not necessarily. Here's our hard data. It's more these are the activities and things that we have seen. These we have heard reports about.  Corey comes and shares reports about the high school pieces. Our individual grade teachers come and share reports about how kids are doing. And I don't necessarily put all that in the report, but we do put sort of we have heard this, this has happened that, you know, those kinds of very hard.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: To fast track.

[R9715-333] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-03-29
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: To to have the chair complete the evaluation and then going again going forward from the back forward 20 1415. And the same thing happened. Becky Ferland Rebecca Ferland, former school board member and and former school board chair, said, we got to do this.
TEXT> We've got to get it done. So Rebecca Ferland utilizing now go to the front.  Now the the first the second page from the front. She established  some goals. And there are four goals. And these four goals create collaborative trusting empathetic high performing team environment for each building including administration staff faculty, students, families and community. That's on page two. Yes.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: All right. That's what we're hearing.

[R9715-354] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: And they're online.
TEXT> Yeah. They're all they're all available online. And what, what the, the challenge is  or that  Becky and the other I don't know, I wasn't here before Becky, was coming up with the wording and how we were going to rank  and, the goals that are set for Middleton and how we are going to assess them. Some of the goals that were written are not Smart goals. They are not very measurable. I mean, and if you look at and this was part of our big challenge, was even if you look at to create collaborative, trusting, empathetic, highly performing team environment for each building, including administrative staff, faculty, students, families and community,  how do we actually rank that and measure that?
NEXT> Unidentified: And I believe we can answer that. I just.

[R9715-362] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) | 2018-03-29
PREV> Steven Horsky: view perspective, but it's our job as a board to engage the schools and that hasn't been done. That was one of the things I heard, that I was one of the first school board members that have been in a school in two years.
TEXT> That's just sad. It's a shame. It's a travesty for a school board.  I'm glad to be hearing that, because that's what my goal is, because we can't get information to direct this district correctly. If we're not engaging the schools, we're not engaging students, we're not engaging the administrative unit, and we're not engaging the community. We have a very important job here. And it's not just sitting here this Thursday or two Wednesdays a month. We have to get out there. And the way you get the information is to get out there and do it. If if you can't get there, that's understandable because I know we have real life commitments as well, but I'm taking this pretty serious and I'm hearing good, positive things, interestingly and hardly any negative, which is really a good thing even with the budget constraints that we're imposing. Teachers are very positive administrations, very positive that they're going to make it work with what we give them. So if we keep working as a team, like what sounds what I'm hearing is going on in unity, we're all going to be successful here. And then we can develop the ideas from just what we're hearing to give him goals.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: And then I'll go this way.

[R9715-648] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> To me, I like having them all in one week. Then I'm done in my life for dinner with my children.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I would I'd recommend that we do it in early November because then we're going to get into Thanksgiving. And so we in the perfect world, we're going to finish

[R9715-695] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Sara Lowe: you know, roles and expectations and ethics and those pieces. And I think that it's really important for everyone to be on the same page and understand and know with all of those are, because it can get really challenging when you're on a board.
TEXT> That's job. And goal is to support academic achievement and the education of children. And then you have the pressures of needing or having people who are taxpayers and whatnot wanting you to do something and that that gets complicated, but that we're all really 100% clear that when you get elected to be on a school board,  you have certain rules and rules. And so I just want to encourage everybody to go through in, in this book. And I know that some of you haven't gotten it yet, but it is something that every new board member should get.  On page  112 all the way through, I think it goes up to like 120 something is a side by side of the superintendents roles in all different pieces, and the board's roles and all different pieces. And it's it's a challenge sometimes to be like, oh, but that's not what I thought my role was on any side. And, and be really clear on that. So I just want to put that out there. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I just want to bring it back.

[R9734-69] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michele Pierce has a questi | 2018-04-24
PREV> Unidentified: Hi. Hi.
TEXT> Thank you for your presentation. Thank you. So I have a couple of questions. If we wanted to sign up a child's,  would we go online? How would we go about that?
NEXT> Terry Tolle: Sure. So there are lots of different ways to register. And Carolyn came up with a great idea that will be happening in the fall. We hope, where we will

[R9734-88] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: assault Awareness month. And we have an organization that's very active in this in the community. And I thought that it would be a good idea to get an update as far as what your organization is doing to increase awareness and address the issue.
TEXT> For the invitation. To be here. Tonight. And to have the opportunity to share with all of you and with Claremont about the services that are available in this community for survivors of sexual assault, and for your forward thinking. This to honor and celebrate Sexual Assault Awareness Month in this way. I think this is a first. And so thank you for that opportunity. So I'm with Turning Points Network. Excuse me. And we are the local crisis and support center working to prevent domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking and  human trafficking here in Sullivan County. One of the areas of our work with Deborah Mostyn. Thank you.  So one of the areas of our work with regard to sexual assault is with the Child Advocacy Center. So for those of you who may or may not be aware, every child that is suspected to have been sexually abused, either by family or friends, the school.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: And there's a report that child is scheduled for an interview at the Child Advocacy Center. They have an office here in Claremont, and it's the it's a forensic interview.

[R9734-91] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: responsibility to protect kids. It's not kids responsibility to protect themselves from predators, right? It is our responsibility to protect kids. But we're not always able to do that either. We can't. We missed a sign. And and and pedophiles and perpetrators are pretty clever.
TEXT> So what we want to do is give kids good basic information so that they can at least let us know that something has happened, that they've been approached. Maybe. Excuse me. So for very young children in building healthy relationships, we're really working with them about what it's like if somebody crosses their boundaries. We don't talk about sex, we don't talk about sex abuse. We don't talk about abuse. We help them build their skills so that they can use them in any situation, including if somebody approaches them or has already approached them. So it might be helping them deal with confusing feelings and activities might include their friend who took their bike. They like their friend. They like being. They like having this friend in their life. They have a lot of fun together. And this friend took their bike. And so trying to figure that out. And part of the message messaging is if you have confusing feelings, good to talk to a trusted adult to work that out. And so hopefully when also this child might have to struggle with. I really like Uncle Sam and I don't like it when he tickles me all over that those are confusing feelings that they will talk to a trusted adult.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: So again, helping kids build the skills they need in developing healthy relationships would also a bit of risk reduction for when we cannot protect kids. That's just one example.

[R9734-92] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: to work that out. And so hopefully when also this child might have to struggle with. I really like Uncle Sam and I don't like it when he tickles me all over that those are confusing feelings that they will talk to a trusted adult.
TEXT> So again, helping kids build the skills they need in developing healthy relationships would also a bit of risk reduction for when we cannot protect kids. That's just one example. But to give you an idea of what that program looks like, as I mentioned, we have programing kindergarten through 12th grade. Obviously the lessons change and the messages change and the programing changes as we work with older kids, in addition to the programing that we do in the schools, we also provide prevention programing at the community level. In particular, Turning Points Network is very involved with green Dot. We've presented to you in the past on green Dot, Turning Points Network and say you six are the primary partners bringing this program to Claremont. And also there are a number of community partners involved in this project  and working with Saw and TPM,  green Dot is really about helping adults be effective bystanders. And if we can all if we can all be effective bystanders, we can figure out a way that we can intervene when we see something that we think is threatening, including sexual abuse. The analogy for green dot is red dots and green dots.  If some of you may remember the training that Kristen did here 5 or 6 months ago,  but a red dot.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: We've all seen those movies where there's an epidemic and there are red dots on a map, and we're told if we don't contain this, it's going to populate across

[R9734-93] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: intervene when we see something that we think is threatening, including sexual abuse. The analogy for green dot is red dots and green dots. If some of you may remember the training that Kristen did here 5 or 6 months ago, but a red dot.
TEXT> We've all seen those movies where there's an epidemic and there are red dots on a map, and we're told if we don't contain this, it's going to populate across the country for us in Claremont, for green dot, red dot is an act of harm. When somebody raises her hand to strike a child, when somebody raises their hand to strike a partner or commits a sexual assault. We don't want those red dots on the map of Claremont. We want green dots. Green dots are when any to any one of us at any time. Take a moment or to get involved and prevent something from happening. It could be calling the police, it could be engaging a friend. It could be us getting involved directly. But we do something to prevent that assault from happening. So the more green dots we have on our map, the fewer red dots that can ever get on our map. So again, that is programing that is happening now in Claremont. There are trainings that happen every month. You can go on website, you can go on our website and find out when their trainings are and learn more. The trainings are free and again it's really about building a healthier community.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: It's about preventing sexual assaults and domestic violence in Claremont. Excuse me. So in addition to the prevention, education and the work that we do at the Child Advocacy Center,

[R9734-94] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: happening now in Claremont. There are trainings that happen every month. You can go on website, you can go on our website and find out when their trainings are and learn more. The trainings are free and again it's really about building a healthier community.
TEXT> It's about preventing sexual assaults and domestic violence in Claremont. Excuse me. So in addition to the prevention, education and the work that we do at the Child Advocacy Center, we have a plethora of direct services available to folks who have already experienced sexual assault. Our services are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. We virtually never closed. We have an office in Newport and an office here in Claremont. When the offices are closed, we have a core of trained volunteers and staff backup available to assist any survivor. We can help them with whatever their needs are. Some survivors may want to work with the criminal justice system and report the abuse. We can help them with that and help them through that. Primarily, we're focused on healing and moving forward for whatever that means for that survivor. Every survivor has a different will. Make their own decision and decide what services they want from TPN. How long. The one thing we can assure every survivor is that everything that they tell us is confidential. Not only is it confidential, and that I'm going to say, I promise I won't tell.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: There's a statute that says I cannot tell, so we have a privilege. You're probably more familiar with attorney client privilege or doctor patient privilege. There is a privilege in

[R9734-95] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: own decision and decide what services they want from TPN. How long. The one thing we can assure every survivor is that everything that they tell us is confidential. Not only is it confidential, and that I'm going to say, I promise I won't tell.
TEXT> There's a statute that says I cannot tell, so we have a privilege. You're probably more familiar with attorney client privilege or doctor patient privilege. There is a privilege in the state of New Hampshire that our legislator legislature gave us that says that any survivor who works for works with a bona fide crisis center where one of 13 in the state that all of their information is protected. So if there's a court case, then they don't want that information given. We don't ever have to give up their information. So in addition to working with them for their physical safety and emotional safety and healing, we can protect the safety of the very private information. So TPN is a pretty safe place to work. We're small but pretty mighty  staff. We're about nine full time equivalents  and a core of 45 volunteers, so that's the only way that we can have our services 24 hours a day and do the work that we do. We will work with about a thousand survivors every year, maybe 200,  including kids, maybe about 300 of those folks will be sexual assault survivors. So for any of us who want to think it doesn't happen here, we can tell you that's just not true.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: And just look at also, there's no cost for our services. We never want safety to be a barrier. Excuse me? Money to be a barrier for safety. We work

[R9734-96] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: will work with about a thousand survivors every year, maybe 200, including kids, maybe about 300 of those folks will be sexual assault survivors. So for any of us who want to think it doesn't happen here, we can tell you that's just not true.
TEXT> And just look at also, there's no cost for our services. We never want safety to be a barrier. Excuse me? Money to be a barrier for safety. We work really hard to break down all barriers. In addition to no cost and the confidentiality.  We need a language line. We can talk with somebody in 140 different languages. All of our sites are accessible. If somebody can't get to us, they absolutely can't get to us. We will find a way to get to them. As I mentioned, are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. People don't even have to give us their name if they don't want to. It really. People can work with us however they feel comfortable. The bottom line is we want to be available to every survivor whenever she or he needs us from wherever insolvent county, whatever time of day or night we will be available. So those are the programs and services.  One of the things that the mayor and I talked about before tonight is that,  in addition to we have to raise a lot of money to provide our services,  our annual budgets, about about $750,000, as I mentioned on this, $750,000, we will work with about 1000 survivors, will operate an office in Newport, an office in Claremont, a shelter 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, and provide education programs to more than 2000 students.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: So we're pretty cost effective of that $750,000. So we have to raise about $250,000 ourselves. We're pretty grant dependent and fundraising and dependent on contributions. One of the ways

[R9734-107] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Nick: Sure. Communication devices or.
TEXT> Absolutely. Thank you for the question.  So we collect cell phones. Folks on people change cell phones all the time. So the ones that are no longer using, we can actually send those to a company and receive funds for those.  Some of them we can program for 911 for somebody who doesn't have a phone, then at least can reach 911. And obviously with folks who are experiencing domestic and sexual violence, that's really critical.  We have a huge need for volunteers. We need volunteers to staff the crisis and support line. We provide the training, you bring the heart, we'll provide the training.  And a lot of folks think, maybe I can't do that, but we can sit with you and talk with you about that and you probably can't do that. But if that's not where your interest lies or your comfort level lies, we need volunteers to help us with some of the school programing, especially with the younger kids, because we have a lot of activities that we do with the younger kids,  and we need people to help us fundraise. We're looking for members for our board of directors and other committees at the organization.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: We also operate Changes Thrift store and we need volunteers at changes. Also, people, if you have an idea of something you'd like to do, we can probably make that

[R9734-114] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont; presiding co-chair of the joint session (add | 2018-04-24
PREV> Unidentified: Great. Thank you.
TEXT> Any other questions? I have one question. The community did a fantastic job leading the charge with some legislative changes to help protect  In this case, it was help protect students in the school district.  From sexual predators and the like. And I was wondering if there are any other legislative issues that you're coming into contact with that perhaps the governing bodies could assist with as far as weighing in on that legislation?
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: It's a great question. There are several. One in particular that's coming that's in front of us right now is Marcy's law. I'm not sure how many people have heard

[R9734-186] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michele Pierce has a questi | 2018-04-24
PREV> Michelle Pierce: It was ridiculous. And and now I'm in a similar situation where I feel very frustrated with the communication. I also feel very frustrated with the communication that happened with the city and, and, and the things as a volunteer, as just a simple volunteer.
TEXT> And  it was very painful and very  disheartening and frustrating and not and it didn't just affect me. It affected 27 children and it affected several other 30, 40 volunteers. Just because there was no one communicating or talking to each other or asking the full story or anything. So if I've personally experienced that in just the last five years, and I'm telling you that I think that that regardless, we need to look at ourselves first and how we communicate better as a group and then look at the things. And I think that there would be someone that would probably volunteer to want to cheerlead how great Claremont is, because I every time I go out of the town, if I talk about where I'm from, its Claremont and I love Claremont and I love being here, and I stay here because of the community. I stay here because of the people that believe in me and who I am not because.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And I could have left a long time ago from the things that have happened. But the point is, I'm just trying to say is, is that I really we've

[R9734-308] Nick | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Nick' [266, 278, 285, 306]; surna | 2018-04-24
PREV> Unidentified: And I only had one question.
TEXT> As far as I know, the school district operates a communication system where you can dial out to parents. The city has a service that we subscribe to, I believe, called code Red. Are those two integrated? One is designed towards parents of students. The other one would be people in the immediate area to not give you detailed information. So you're like a moth to a candle, but alerts and warnings. I'm wondering if those two are integrated.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I don't believe they are. I don't know if they could be, but I'd like to explore that because it fits in with the spirit of this meeting tonight. The

[R9734-327] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont; presiding co-chair of the joint session (add | 2018-04-24
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: We have a school board meeting at 20th. Yes we do.
TEXT> Does that meet? Everybody's okay June 21st Thursday okay. So I would expect we try to keep these to two hours plus or minus having a couple of agenda items. It's probably all we can deal with. That would be we have to be well prepared if we're going to take the legislators time with the round table. So let's work on that in preparation for that meeting. And we have and we're asking if I'm if I understand everybody correctly to have the communications, proposal come back for a second visit. Is that correct? Yep. And. Oh, this is an update. I should have done it now, but I didn't have all of the information. And that is, if you recall, at our January meeting, we had people come present to us about lead testing of pets. And there was a student that was going to be a project for cour and they, hit a few hiccups, but they're all set and ready to go now. So they're going to have a couple of lead testing for pet clinics.  One will be in Lebanon this Saturday, and the other one will be on the 29th at the Sullivan County Humane Society during their rabies clinic. And you said you had gotten some.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Okay, so while he's looking to confirm that date, and remember, that was open to the public. People could bring their pets and they would do the testing to see

[R9740-8] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-04-18
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, good. I believe that we've approved the agenda as modified. Second.
TEXT> Any further discussion on the agenda? Hearing none. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay. Thank you. Student representative. I'm sorry. Head of myself. Approval of minutes from April 4th, 2018.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Make a motion to approve. Minutes.

[R9740-17] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-04-18
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> Opposed. All right. Thank you. Student representatives report. Lexi.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Do you want me to go to the podium?

[R9740-34] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I don't.
TEXT> I have no idea. Eight, nine. I'll let you know.  So after our senior breakfast.  As seniors, we will get all of our caps and gowns on, along with all of our regalia, and walk through the elementary schools in the middle schools to show  our accomplishments and to show the other students what to look forward to. I'm so excited to do this because they've been doing this for like 2 or 3 years now, and I can't wait. And I'm so I'll probably cry, but it's fine.  Thursday, June 7th is graduation, and that's at 7:00 and you are all welcome to come and assist in the handing out of diplomas. And along with the rest of the other dates you're along to come. You're free to come to those two and just, you know, support us or whatever. So a little sports update. Girls varsity softball won against Knock Valley Regional High School with a final score of 8 to 4. So good job, ladies, and good luck to all of our athletes. And that's it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you. I have a question. Yes.

[R9740-47] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers superintendent's report after 'Superin | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Superintendent. I had heard somewhere that this might be the last year. Superintendent.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'm going to be brief tonight. We have a long agenda, but  we have postponed the preschool presentation until next month. Diane Edwards, the director of the program, is going to make a presentation regarding the the family handbook that's in your packet.  But she's also going to be talking about the summary of the year's programs and also programs that are being aligned to benefit high school students as well. So there'll be more on that as well as some grant opportunities, opportunities that she is attempting to acquire to expand the program.   As you gain from emails that I have sent you,  Mr.. Ben Nester  is the recommended  candidate for the six director of Special education. The six school board, when they meet next month, will be provided his recommendation. And Mr. Nestor,  who currently works at Stevens High School getting a special education as well as assistant principal.  Was the number one candidate among among the group he toured all of our say six, saw six schools today, talked with Sped teachers, regular education teachers. Very pleased about his his appointment.  And so there'll be more information on Mr. Nestor at our meeting.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: S oh six meeting next month. The Claremont Middle school principal search committee meets tomorrow night. And we hope by the middle of May, we now have approximately nine candidates

[R9740-55] Mimi Ryan's | Public commenter, Ward 1 (states 'Mimi Ryan's' [71] and spells surname | 2018-04-18
PREV> Mimi Ryan's: as much. This is by no fault of anyone. It is because the major hub of information is a private Facebook page. As I previously stated, that private Facebook page does have value. However, I think we can all agree it is problematic at times.
TEXT> If the communications coordinator position was to be created for our city and our school district, I think you would quickly see how badly it is needed. It would allow for a person to work for the city in school. Literally. Their job would be to market to to prospective new people to come live here and raise their kids and put their kids in our schools, and also remind people who already live here why they decided to put roots down in Claremont. It would give people a more structured place to voice their concerns about the city and the school district, and to get answers to their concerns directly from the source. Additionally, the idea that this position doesn't need to be benefited or could simply be done by someone  already in this room, is frankly insulting to the many individuals who have gone to college and gotten degrees in public relations and journalism. Full disclosure my mom is a journalist professor at Keene State College and has spent many years as a journalist and has also done public relations work on the side. And she also teaches that class at Keene State. So I can tell you with the utmost confidence that this job 100% needs deserves to be benefited if it is to become a thing for our district.
NEXT> Mimi Ryan's: It is in a full time position. It is not as simple as just posting a quick status on Facebook. If you as a board, decide to make a part

[R9740-116] Will Phillips | Attorney, New Hampshire School Boards Association; presenter on the Ri | 2018-04-18
PREV> Will Phillips: or or something like that, which is complaints from the public. And then there's another one. I might get the letters mixed up, but you have a complaints from the public, and then you have complaints about personnel and, and just refer them to that.
TEXT> And then again, you know, if you think you need to get a little information just so that when you call the superintendent and say, hey, you've got somebody breathing fire right now, you know, you at least can say a little bit, but  you have to be very careful not to get into the weeds of complaints about specific students or  or personnel. Again, that's a  whole other night and a whole other training.  But, you know, you, you, you, you need enough to be able to pass it along to the appropriate person.  But just as far as as that and it's, it is helpful to have handy the policy references  that I just spoke of.  This actually goes this next point goes more towards, what we provide in the roles and responsibilities, but. I usually suggest that board members sort of have they they have rehearsed responses because there are certain things that you will encounter you and they'll come to you when you least expect it. You'll be in the produce aisle at the grocery store.  You'll you know, you'll be at the recycling center, you'll be at a social, you'll be at a little league game and somebody will say something.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And sometimes you might even be engaged in another conversation. All of a sudden it drifts. And and it's helpful to have in your head. Here's what I say. When

[R9740-274] Will Phillips | Attorney, New Hampshire School Boards Association; presenter on the Ri | 2018-04-18
PREV> Unidentified: One, you have a.
TEXT> Firing one, and you have a personal reputation of a student. One do you do three separate nonpublic sessions or do you do one and just state the three reasons?
NEXT> Unidentified: Will.

[R9740-293] Will Phillips | Attorney, New Hampshire School Boards Association; presenter on the Ri | 2018-04-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: use it the first read if we're going to make an amendment, get it out there. Hey, this is how we understood it after the first read with the amendment right. Is this accurate? No. Okay. Well, then we'll handle it on the second read.
TEXT> Yeah. Or or you might have,  we want you to have the attorney draft a letter, you know, making it clear that we disagree with that interpretation of the contract, blah, blah, blah.  And, you know, it comes to heavy, and somebody says, I think you should adjust the tone  that, you know, if you really feel strongly about it, you probably need a meeting if that's the only thing you said,  and you didn't hit reply all,  I don't think it would have any effect, so I think you'd have to. Even then, you'd probably have to do a meeting if. But the bigger I think, the trickier one, the policy one. You know, it's not often that you need an immediate policy. It does happen. But if you do, then you can waive the, you know, the, the general protocols anyway. But you might have a personnel here and a personnel certain of them or a student hearing.
NEXT> Will Phillips: You have a very specific timeline for having your decision. And the decision has to go out and it has to contain certain things. And, you know, if it's, you

[R9740-311] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: to that. We did do climate surveys. And so we have that data that we could use this year as a baseline, potentially through our work with the System of Care grant, which you're going to be hearing about in a couple of agenda items.
TEXT> We have an opportunity to conduct a climate and culture survey at three levels with staff, with parents and with students. That is done through Antioch. I believe I'm going to  confirm with Trinity. Okay. That is done through Antioch and not us. So that would be a scenario where folks get a link to complete a survey. Separate from the school district. The data goes to Antioch. Antioch gives us the results. And that's what we're looking to do for this year. And we have that option because of the system of care grant that you'll hear about  in just a moment. So the plan for the Climate and Culture Survey this year is still an online survey. And that's convenient for a lot of people because they can do it  at home when they're comfortable or at work wherever it suits their needs. But it does provide yet an additional layer of anonymity and for people, because the school district is not the collector of the information, the third party would be the collector of the information.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Then the information would come back aggregated to the school district. So I think it would I think that's going to address some historical concerns about what information is gathered

[R9740-376] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Steve' [470, 557, 835, 883] | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Allowed to be involved in personnel unless they come to the board through due process. But it doesn't hurt to have the information, right. We're allowed to have it as long as we don't have people's names attached to it.
TEXT> Yeah, I mean, we're allowed to make policy adjustments. Okay. So it may guide us in some policies that are out there. Let's say they're saying, oh, the students are out of control. And no matter how many times we give them a suspension, it's not happening. Okay. Well then maybe we need to review our disciplinary policies, stuff like that, that you never know. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Okay, we're.

[R9740-379] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Back to a system of care grant overview with Trinity Dicks and Cary.
TEXT> So we applied for and received a grant called the System of Care Grant. This is a the first time a Department of Education in the country has received this grant. These grants typically are disseminated through the Department of Health and Human Services. The State of New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services was a recipient of this grant a couple of years ago, and then now has been a recipient of this grant through the Department of Education. These funds come through from SAMHSa, which is essentially the  Federal Bureau for Mental Health and Behavioral Health. And so I'm I'm going to turn it over to Trinity. But we have approximately 2 million, $2 million over the course of four years. And it's really  around increasing the available supports for students and families with behavioral and mental health issues in our community. And Trinity can talk more about the components of the grant and what the grant  is designed to support specifically.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: So thank you. So you each have a handout and that kind of gives an overview. And I'll kind of briefly walk through the parts of the system of care

[R9740-381] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: they can also provide that training. And ideally, we're training more and more of our staff as able more and more of our community members, parents to be able to identify the risks associated with mental health issues in our students. We have through a.
TEXT> Collaborator called We Are Hope. They are bringing in some one on one anxiety coaching at CMS, we're seeing a lot of middle schoolers six, seven to eighth grade. I'm having some anxiety issues that get in the way of their learning, so we're doing some one on one anxiety coping skills with them. They're coming in every day, meeting with these students, walking them through what might be making them anxious, whether it's taking a test, whether it's simply coming to school, whether it's anything that's going on there helping those students with that. They will also be providing consultation on the guidelines room at the middle school. So the guidelines Room is a place for students to go when they need a break from the classroom. If they're not fully functioning and accessing their education, they're they're either allowed to opt out and pull themselves into guidelines. Or oftentimes, if they are struggling, a teacher recommends that they go down to the guidelines room. So what we are hope is going to be doing is doing some staff training around that. How do we work with the students that are coming into the guidelines room? What are we hoping that that student gets out of the time that they're in guidelines, so that they're making the most of that time there, rather than just going in and sitting on their own, and not dealing with the issue that brought them there in the first place.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: The one of the big pieces that, I am pretty proud of is that starting at the beginning of March, we now have school based therapy at bluff, Dessner and

[R9740-382] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: that student gets out of the time that they're in guidelines, so that they're making the most of that time there, rather than just going in and sitting on their own, and not dealing with the issue that brought them there in the first place.
TEXT> The one of the big pieces that, I am pretty proud of is that starting at the beginning of March, we now have school based therapy at bluff, Dessner and Maple. So we're working with Counseling Associates, and we have clinicians that are coming into each school one day a week and meeting with students with their parents or guardians permission, and doing some one on one counseling. These students, often do not have that access or the ability to get to these appointments on their own, outside of school, or otherwise wouldn't access these appointments, whether it's transportation needs, you know, parental parents schedules don't don't line up with that. So we're bringing those services into the schools to try and help the students throughout their day in their life, school based behavioral supports as well. We're doing that through West Central Behavioral Health. They are coming in and providing some guidance, some coping skills for elementary students. If we're seeing groups of students rise up that are dealing with, parental divorce, for example, we might bring in a group around that. I should say that all of this is with parent guardian permission.  It's all voluntary.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: They can opt out at any point as well. So there's that process that they go go through. We this past September, survey air screened kindergarten students, at one of

[R9740-383] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: some coping skills for elementary students. If we're seeing groups of students rise up that are dealing with, parental divorce, for example, we might bring in a group around that. I should say that all of this is with parent guardian permission. It's all voluntary.
TEXT> They can opt out at any point as well. So there's that process that they go go through. We this past September, survey air screened kindergarten students, at one of the elementary schools. Once again, this is a voluntary screening. It's called the ask and it's a social emotional screener. So taking a look at the students that were coming into this elementary school to see, are they socially and emotionally ready to participate in school, to be a member of a class, to be a member of a school? And what's contributed to that? Just so you know, we had surveyed 39 students, and out of those, 15%  were on the chart as being not quite ready yet, like kind of, they're not fully ready to participate in kindergarten in a way that's, that's going to be most beneficial to them. So there's some social emotional skills that we're lacking that they hadn't gotten prior to starting school. So that's just kind of gives you a quick snapshot. Our hope is to roll this out in all of the elementary schools and this coming fall to kind of just give us a baseline of where students are coming in at, in hopes that we're also informing pre-K  and private, daycares, private early childhood education programs within the district  to help them.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: Take a look at the curriculum that they're using, as well as the supports that they're providing in those, crucial years. The 0 to 5 years. Right now, we're in

[R9740-386] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: f being called and saying you need to clean your house. You need to get into drug treatment. You need to do X, Y, and Z. This is all about the family coming in and saying, we want to be a family that doesn't fight.
TEXT> How do we make that happen? And they're driving that process. So that's how it's different from any of the other services that come in. It's not to say that we won't bring in some of those other service agencies, because we most definitely we definitely will. But that's how it's different, and that's how we're hoping to catch, some individuals from falling through the cracks even further. Right now we have three enrollees. We have two females and one male. At this point in time, we do have the ability to take on more students at this time. Right now, they're all high school age students.  Many of them deal with anxiety around getting to school, anxiety around what that looks like, how can they be successful during the day? But we're also seeing mental health issues at home as well  that are helping to kind of perpetuate the cycle. So we're all about, you know, kind of figuring out what do we need to support this child in coming to school and being successful at school and making that happen for them? At the bottom, you'll see the list of collaborators.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: So we're collaborating. This list is constantly growing, a number of supports, both locally nationwide, county wide. And then as I mentioned before, when we were talking about the survey,

[R9740-393] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Comments or comments okay. I'm just so happy you're here. So thanks. This is a really great thing.
TEXT> I have a couple things in the, I'm assuming that, that your organization becomes aware of students through, and at the SSD or T process that happens within the schools. How do you how are kids referred to you.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: So anybody can refer so parents can refer teachers can refer counselors. We've had a DC F referral. We've had West Central Behavioral Health refer. They can come from anywhere.

[R9740-395] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: that, you know, we might have a student going here, here and here, but nobody's talking to each other. So that's what that's about, is kind of bringing everybody around the table to come up with a plan of care that works for the student.
TEXT> And there are specific parameters for who we're allowed to work with and who are not allowed to work with. And I don't know if you  address that. I tuned out for a minute. I was getting the survey information for you. But if students are involved with at a district placement, for instance, they're not eligible for the wraparound services because they're already receiving a different level of service that particular student is. So there are some parameters that we work within. And those parameters were not established locally. They were established by the cohort of folks who are recipients of this particular grant with input from local teams, for sure, heavy input for local teams. But again, the idea of this process is being evaluated and assessed by a third party by Antioch to measure its effectiveness of implementation. And so there have to be certain consistencies across the multiple sites. Another piece I wanted to add was just that we, the other  schools are more. Regionally located. And so there's sort of this cohort of smaller cohort within the larger cohort. We are the only ones over on the western side of the state, which is typical in a lot of different, arenas. And so as we are really just barely wrapping up the first year of implementation of this grant, Trinity was hired, I think a year ago in May. So we haven't even quite hit a year mark of this.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We're sort of getting off the ground trying out different things, as are these other districts across the state, and then ultimately to build out regionally in this local area

[R9740-396] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: in a lot of different, arenas. And so as we are really just barely wrapping up the first year of implementation of this grant, Trinity was hired, I think a year ago in May. So we haven't even quite hit a year mark of this.
TEXT> We're sort of getting off the ground trying out different things, as are these other districts across the state, and then ultimately to build out regionally in this local area and provide, effective support to other areas, school districts. And so we we sort of have a different charge as a recipient of this grant to not only support our own community, but, do things like when we're providing professional development and growth opportunities for our staff or providers in the area, that we invite folks from neighboring communities to those opportunities as well. So it's not necessarily watering down our resources for our,  our  students, in our in our staff, but it's sharing the wealth of that with other communities. Once we get to a point where we can do that.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: I think the other point that you bring, that you reminded me of, is that New Hampshire is the first state to be doing this through the Department of Education.

[R9740-397] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: neighboring communities to those opportunities as well. So it's not necessarily watering down our resources for our, our students, in our in our staff, but it's sharing the wealth of that with other communities. Once we get to a point where we can do that.
TEXT> I think the other point that you bring, that you reminded me of, is that New Hampshire is the first state to be doing this through the Department of Education. Other places are doing it through the county, through their statewide things. So New Hampshire is really kind of being looked at to say, does this work in a school? So we're almost kind of their guinea pigs because we have the students with us so often. So we're really trying to develop what what that looks like and what that means. Many other states aren't necessarily involving the school, so they're missing that whole key piece of a student's life, at this point in time. So that's why I think we're kind of special on on that note, is that we're we're doing this through the schools, and hopefully making some progress.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Sorry I didn't finish my second comment. So, then then Carolyn. So the one thing that would be interesting to me is with my experience in the schools that, and

[R9740-398] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: the school, so they're missing that whole key piece of a student's life, at this point in time. So that's why I think we're kind of special on on that note, is that we're we're doing this through the schools, and hopefully making some progress.
TEXT> Sorry I didn't finish my second comment. So, then then Carolyn. So the one thing that would be interesting to me is with my experience in the schools that, and it's funny because Corey mentioned out of district placements and often students that are emotionally disturbed wind up out of district. So it'd be interesting. A  task for our new special ed director might be to with this program, do we see a difference and a change or reduction in or out of district placements as a result of this type of programing? We've talked a lot about the cost of that.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: So and that's one of the data points that we do track through Antioch is that we're tracking at a district placements, as well as they start looking at the

[R9740-401] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [260, 371, 485] be | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Doesn't have to catch many to be very cost effective. Right.
TEXT> So yeah. Carol, my question was, actually it wasn't a question. It was a comment. You had mentioned that anxiety levels were were part of the function of the wraparound. And so happy to hear that. That's part of that because left undone,  that child is going to struggle their whole educational life.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah.

[R9740-416] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (McGoodwin: 'Mike, you had raised that q | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: I guess, you know what.
TEXT> I have heard from various sources, part of it was the the senior luncheon. We did, almost a year ago. Now, some of the seniors voicing their concerns about GPA and how it's calculated. And, you know, the five point versus the four point system of the GPA. So I heard some concern there. I've heard from parents as well. With the system we have with the proficient, not yet proficient, exceeds proficient, parents just trying to figure out exactly,  when they get their report, the proficient or not yet proficient, exactly where their kids fall, as far as it. You know, sometimes you need to understand that the proficiency is based on where they're supposed to be at the end of the quarter, but when you're only halfway through the quarter, you know, how do I judge if my child is not yet proficient? How do I judge if they're actually falling behind or if they're just not, you know, finished with the lesson plan yet? So, you know, I've heard that concern for parents, as well as, you know what, you reach the middle school. I guess grading kids on proficiency, you know, that type of scale?  I, I know some parents that would really like the old letter grades back or, you know, see more  honorable things. And so I just heard that's something I had heard a lot about.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So I'm not going to lie, one of my high school friends just posted their daughter's report card and it was all A plus B plus C plus. Well, actually

[R9740-420] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: We're not going there.
TEXT> I just think having been, involved with it a lot from the administrative side when we began all of this,  what we call the grade isn't really all that. One of the big concerns I remember facing was  how the college is going to react to to a food or a P,  and colleges get grades from Korea,  China, Peru, wherever. So they don't have the same type of grades that, that we do anyway that colleges look at. I think what's more important, what Mike just brought up, I think is the issue more than what we call a grade, is what does the grade really mean at this point in time? And I think that that, my year in Newport last year, I heard similar concerns that that teachers, our parents were really having a hard time in bracketing in is, is my kid okay or do I need to get a tutor? Where where am I in this? And, some of that really was not even the grading, but they were computer issues. The inability of the computer to convey enough information and what the parent was looking at. It was it was confusing to them because then they would be it would be some little blurb there that they even found more disconcerting. So it's a really multi-layered question, I think, and I'm not sure. But I think what I've heard, the biggest issue is, you know, I want my kid to be successful, I can't.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The way I'm getting information from this, it really limits my ability to help because I don't know what to do. Is that is that close, Mike? To where?

[R9740-423] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (McGoodwin: 'Mike, you had raised that q | 2018-04-18
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I can't measure it?
TEXT> Yeah. I think as a parent, if if I get a, report halfway through the quarter that my son is not yet proficient without asking further questions, I need, you know, which is fine. I can go to the teacher and ask those questions. Is he not yet proficient because he's not expected to be for efficient until the end of the quarter? But if I get a report that says your kid has a C, I know I got to give my son a kick in the butt to say, hey, get focused, get the work, and get that great up a little bit so that I think that's the difference of, you know, of interpreting those NYP EP, you know, if they're exceeding proficient halfway through the quarter, then why are they going to school? Sit back, relax. And you know. So I guess it could be similar for a, B, C, d. But I think it's interpreting some of the.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Friendliness of the power school.

[R9740-431] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-04-18
PREV> Carolyn Towle: know if I disagree or agree, but I, I know I lived through two grandchildren that had to go from the grading system to the new system, and it was difficult. It was it was difficult for them to deal with that, to that transition.
TEXT> So I think one of the the premises, as I understand the,  it's the concept of growth over, over time. And I and I like to tell this quick story of when I took freshman comp at Keene State College,  I was failing, and then I started getting finally dialed in to what the professor wanted, and it started meeting his expectations, what I should be doing. And I started getting A's. So I presuming in my averaging mind that I have a C average. And so I went to meet with him to find out what I could do to get my grade up to an A, and he looked at my grades and he said, you have an A? I said, how can I have an A? I had all those seized ease and FS he said, I don't care where you were, I care about where you are. And so I think that that's another way of looking at competency based grading is that is the growth over time model. So I mean, I don't want to tell it's a hard thing to tell a parent that where their student is at this point in time is irrelevant. It's winds up where they, where they, it matters where they wind up because the parent still wants to be  a parent and support their child and their education. And it's sometimes hard to do that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may end Carolyn's point, it wasn't that the project wasn't done, but the project that would demonstrate the competency being accomplished wasn't passed in. So there was a

[R9740-436] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: this yet. This is why it is what it is here. So I feel like at the elementary level it's fantastic. And I'm speaking as a parent, even visually it's fantastic. Once, once I go to Aden at the middle school, and this is it.
TEXT> Can we stick on the elementary for just a second? Just. I want to make sure that I understand. So at the elementary level, you feel that there the frequency of reporting periods is sufficient. So you're getting reports on the frequent enough basis and that the information you receive on those reports is clear enough for you to understand where your child is in relationship to where they should be.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: It is for.

[R9740-438] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: It is for.
TEXT> Me, for you. And then, Do you as a parent, and if you don't feel comfortable answering this, that's fine. Do you access the online parent portal? I do, for your elementary kids.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I do.

[R9740-450] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [0], runs agenda  | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's because there's more classes and it's a little bit more challenging to access on power School. I think that.
TEXT> Kids are taking six classes instead.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Of teachers, and a lot of the information isn't in all the time. So you're looking at something that's not up to date data because it just hasn't been input

[R9740-462] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (LeClair/Zullo: 'Michelle, could email y | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I think. I'm sorry, I'm.
TEXT> I haven't even been able to access it due to not having the internet. So we just recently got the internet and it's very intimidating to be honest, especially as a grandparent raising a child. You know, the technology in my age is different even from your age. So I find myself very, thrown back sometimes by that. However we're trying we're working through it. He shows me more about it than I know.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: If I could make a suggestion. And I don't know what the feasibility of this is, or at what point it might be able to happen or not happen. But

[R9740-470] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (LeClair/Zullo: 'Michelle, could email y | 2018-04-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Go ahead.
TEXT> I believe, with the new legislation and things are talking about in government about grandparents raising their children and finding out that that's a lot different, that there's more of that going on than they ever realized.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There is.

[R9740-526] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (LeClair responds to 'something that | 2018-04-18
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yeah.
TEXT> Well here's one. Should we set a time limit for presentations on student reports. Yes or no. Should we or shouldn't we? I mean, that seems like..
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Is that part of our retreat. So that.

[R9740-554] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, okay.
TEXT> This lines up with the New Hampshire state recommended calendar. In years past, Newport has aligned with the recommended calendar, and we have not. So we've had that mismatch. Sometimes,  as long as they align with the state recommended calendar, then they would eliminate this in terms of vacation weeks. This calendar is counting by hours again. So this year, for instance, we've had a fair number of snow days and we are still able to dismiss on the 13th. As of April 18th. And so and we starting after Labor Day  and so this the calendar in front of you  counting by hours has snow days or inclement weather, emergency cancellations built into it. That allows us to guarantee that students won't get out any earlier than a certain date. For families who need to plan for childcare and make arrangements for that, but also build in some days. So we we have to have a fair number of weather cancellations in order to go beyond that date. It just it allows us to have a more predictable last day of school for families who do have working schedules, and childcare needs to be able to work around that. The calendar follows the SRA contract language. Through this past negotiation period.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The board negotiated with the SRA, and language related to the calendar is included in there, and this meets and satisfies that language, which was pretty prescriptive. So this is

[R9740-555] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: that date. It just it allows us to have a more predictable last day of school for families who do have working schedules, and childcare needs to be able to work around that. The calendar follows the SRA contract language. Through this past negotiation period.
TEXT> The board negotiated with the SRA, and language related to the calendar is included in there, and this meets and satisfies that language, which was pretty prescriptive. So this is in alignment with that language. And does include early release days again. However, there the intention is to have these early release days for the 1819 school year be true early release days this year, because of the learning that we needed for people to do and the number of people that needed to be learning the information all at one time, we had the early dismissal for our K-5 students and the late start for our 612 students. So families who had students in K-5 and 612, that was a real hardship for them. And we recognized that, but didn't really have a different way to address the learning needs of our staff without doing that. And so next year, our intention is to have early release days be strictly early release days, because families who have students at both levels, it's it's easier for those families.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Relief from me. Although we made it work because you guys are.

[R9740-557] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'let Corey jump in' [269]; 'Co | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Relief from me. Although we made it work because you guys are.
TEXT> Working families made it work this year and they were very flexible. And quite honestly, we received very few complaints. But I know that it was a hardship for families. And so, going back to the model where students will just be dismissed partway through the day and the and the learning for the faculty and staff would happen after that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Steve. And then Mike.

[R9740-585] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers superintendent's report after 'Superin | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.
TEXT> There is also in your in your packet, I request, the administration, their current collective bargaining agreement. Current collective bargaining agreement. Provides $2,000 to be used for courses to be in approved academic program, of which 1000 can be used for paying off student loans. So the request is if an administrator with a two $0 contractual benefit  does not, is not taking a course during that year, but does have student loans from prior courses or graduate programs instead of a 1000. Could they take that the years 2000 to help offset? That's the question.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well.

[R9740-591] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers superintendent's report after 'Superin | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Because the other 1000 is typically used for an approved academic course.
TEXT> Yes. So can they take on a given year  that other thousand and offset their student loan?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason. Well.

[R9740-704] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers superintendent's report after 'Superin | 2018-04-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: That was. Check that right.
TEXT> And last but certainly not least, our seven school board policies before you for a third read. And adoption background investigation and criminal records. Check staff participation and political activities. Character and citizens citizenship education, patriotic exercises, student discipline and due process. Teaching about alcohol, drugs and tobacco, and teaching about self-protection.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: These are in third read in final. Frank.

[R9740-710] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Steve' [470, 557, 835, 883] | 2018-04-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Mr. Horsey. Did you want your hand. Up, sir?
TEXT> I was going to make the motion to accept the policy. GBCD background investigation, criminal records check GBI staff participation in political activities IHAK character and citizenship education. I'm d a patriotic exercises j I CD student discipline and due process IHAMA teaching about alcohol, drugs and tobacco. I am teaching about self-protection. To move forward final approval.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: I can do third and final all.

[R9764-4] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: next Wednesday, May 9th. The topic will be New Hampshire Public School funding. In the context of considering the Claremont litigation and similar cases around the country. The talk is going to deal with New Hampshire's struggle to provide sufficient funding to its public schools.
TEXT> It will focus on the Claremont Litigation, which recognizes the state's obligation under its own state constitution to provide and fun and adequate education. As you know, that has not occurred. So,  I know that Carolyn is interested in carpooling, and perhaps some of you, as a group, would be interested in driving to Durham next Wednesday, 615 to 745, to accompany Carolyn as a board to attend,  this this discussion. And if you are, perhaps you can connect with each other. And last but not least,  we're going to be talking about  headlights tonight and look forward to that discussion. But what oftentimes is not recognize is the hard work of our school nurses.  And school nurses have been hard at work this year, caring for students, staff and families. And in most schools, they are the sole health care provider in the building and could be the only health care a child receives on. On the date is Wednesday, May 9th.  It happens to be School Nurse Appreciation Day. School nurses are oftentimes overlooked on Teacher Appreciation Day as they are not teachers, but their special day does fall within that week.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I'm going to make a special note to thank each one of our school nurses for the work they do. The wellness of our students and our staff can't

[R9764-39] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (author of the proposed no-nit head lice | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: For sure.
TEXT> My goal is not to be having children kicked out of school.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's to get.

[R9764-43] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (author of the proposed no-nit head lice | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: Goal.
TEXT> To ensure that we're catching it so it doesn't become a widespread problem, as it seems to have been. The other goal is, is to hopefully that means a big piece in here is educating the parents. A lot of parents don't understand that they can do it. They get the phone call, and they physically have to come and get their child and learn that they actually have to take care of it and that their insurance, if they're low income, will take care of the over-the-counter model of treatment. Maybe a way to help prevent it. The other key fact is, is that, we're they're starting to find that with the continued outbreaks and infestations, there's current studies in place. There's no factual information provided yet. But the studies are being done that the the lice and nits are becoming, pretty much immune to the over-the-counter stuff and even the prescription stuff that you can get through.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Your primary care physician is not working, as well. So this is kind of my my goal is, is it's just it's no different than, you know, having my dog

[R9764-46] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: school as it is. I'm not saying all of them. I mean, because everybody, everybody gets lice. But I guess my issue is, is if a parent is not good at what they're doing, how long can you deny a kid education because of it?
TEXT> And, so, so even though I, I think a no net policy would be good, I just want to put some thought into that. To that. What can we do to force a parent to be a parent or at least be good at that? And secondly, I mean, if you're going to keep a kid out every time they have a nit, you might have kids that are out of school for half the year. So, I mean. I'm not saying civil rights necessarily, but from a legal standpoint, just how much of that can you actually do? That's just a question. I don't know if you can answer it, Steve. I'm just throwing it out there that it's something we need to consider as well. Yeah. Mike. And to that point, you know, part of what I.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Said. The story that I've heard for some people is that the expense of it as well. So there are families obviously in this area that came out before, maybe

[R9764-49] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Michelle had her hand' [101 | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Steve Michelle had her handle. Honestly.
TEXT> It's about $80 and it's not in it. It's. More than one child. It's. You have to have a kid for a kid for room. So there's lots of there's lots more to it. And I think that if we could generate some, you know, $80 just to get your laundry, all, everything. Is there anything else? They stayed there, especially for a single parent.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Just half of our community. Thank you Steve.

[R9764-51] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (author of the proposed no-nit head lice | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Just half of our community. Thank you Steve.
TEXT> I can understand those concerns, but if these parents are having that much trouble in general, they're usually eligible for state assistance. And if they are available for state assistance, as the state does, give them funds in transportation assistance to handle the situation. They can get the shampoos and the combs and all that stuff and the prescriptions via their health care provider. Just writing a simple prescription. So basically taking the financial piece away. I  see the concern of the single parent, but I did it as a single parent that wasn't making very much money. But it's something you have to do. It's a priority. My kids health and safety is a priority. And to use the excuse that because some people can't afford it, just means that you're shifting it to the people who can. Because I'm going to continually take my child and make sure that I get the lights out of her hair. And how is that fair for me to have to continually do it? Because we're going to be inactive when we could do something very simple.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's that. That wasn't really my comment, necessarily. My concern more so is that you can still have the resources, everything you need to do it, but there's going to

[R9764-52] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: I'm going to continually take my child and make sure that I get the lights out of her hair. And how is that fair for me to have to continually do it? Because we're going to be inactive when we could do something very simple.
TEXT> That's that. That wasn't really my comment, necessarily. My concern more so is that you can still have the resources, everything you need to do it, but there's going to be that percentage that just aren't going to do it.  For one reason or another, whether it's choice or just in it,  not having the capacity to do it or simply not being able to follow directions. I mean, there's, there's we have all demographics in this town, and there are some that, you could hand them the bottle of shampoo and they just may not use it. I'm just saying how how much, how much power does the district truly have to say? This is what you have to do. And if you don't do it, your kid can't come back to school. That's all. I'm simply asking.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I'd like to, a little bit, turn the focus a little bit. Steve made a point that I was glad to see, that the information would be on the website,

[R9764-58] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Carolyn, did you have a question, though? I think no, I had specifically asked, Mr. Goodwin to answer the questions and briefly go over what's being done right now. So everybody is on the same page.
TEXT> In 2012, I started meeting with the school nurses.  And we meet about 3 or 4 times a month. And one of the things I recognized was that the different schools in Claremont had different protocols regarding headlights. There was a lack of consistency. And so we revisited the policy. And the policy has been in place since 2013. And the protocol is that when we identify a student with headlights, we contact, we contact the parents and we provide support for the parents. We also will provide recommendations as far as, as how about as far as the treatment? What's important though, I am not a medical doctor, but I go by what the medical professionals recommend. When my children were little, I'd go to the pediatrician. I would listen to the pediatrician. I didn't have I had the right not to and to do my own thing, but I did. And so the thing that that keeps on coming back with what the medical professional profession recommends and what they recommend is not always welcomed. But there are two things. The school district has a protocol. We don't send children home, and we have that protocol based on the academy, American Academy of Pediatricians and other organizations. And we do communicate.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We try to support parents. I think you're right. Some parents are very vigilant and some parents are not vigilant. I've been told by the nurses that many times the

[R9764-64] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: So we had one nurse and we had a no nit policy. So the financial pieces kind of move, I believe.
TEXT> Actually, if I may, Rebecca, we did not have a no nit policy. We had an inconsistent protocol. It depended upon. There was no clear direction, there was no clear direction, and that that individual schools were handling it differently. So one parent of a child in school A would say, well, my school does this, and another parent in school B would say, that's not what happens in my school. And so I was getting calls. We have different ways of doing business. So that's why we recalibrated. And in 20 1213 revisited the way we do business. And based on what you have in your packet and what the community received, that's the basis for our  our policy and our protocol. I don't  recall having a known IT policy. I've been here seven years. I do recall six years ago  how this was treated depends upon the school the child attended.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So there was a school that had a no net policy.

[R9764-68] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Jason Benware: occurred in our schools from year to year? Because it seems like that would be easy enough to tally. It would be kind of nice to know. And if we decided to go to a no nit policy, then we'd have something to gauge against.
TEXT> All I can say, I don't know the answer as to how many cases I can tell you that studies of tens of thousands of children report that schools with no need to show no fewer cases of lice than those without the policies. I repeated what the researchers said. So it makes sense. A no nit policy. We're going to have no lice. We've fixed it. No, but maybe that's not what that's not what research over several years has shown.
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't know if this is going to help anything, but, speaking as a student while. I was in elementary school, I remember getting, you know, like, checked over, I

[R9764-69] Unidentified | Unidentified - student speaking 'as a student' about her elementary ye | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of lice than those without the policies. I repeated what the researchers said. So it makes sense. A no nit policy. We're going to have no lice. We've fixed it. No, but maybe that's not what that's not what research over several years has shown.
TEXT> I don't know if this is going to help anything, but, speaking as a student while. I was in elementary school, I remember getting, you know, like, checked over, I guess, like by my mom, like, before school started, like after, etc., whatever. And also by, like school. Remember when I was in third grade, like, we'd all line up and, like, you know, we'd get our fluoride and we'd, you know, all that fun stuff. Then it'd be like a life stay where we'd like, you know, school nurse would come around and stuff like that. So. And that was before, obviously you got here, but I just wanted to add that. Good.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Carolyn, when a student is sent home now, when they return to school, they see the school nurse. Correct.

[R9764-70] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [73],[148],[198];  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Unidentified: we'd, you know, all that fun stuff. Then it'd be like a life stay where we'd like, you know, school nurse would come around and stuff like that. So. And that was before, obviously you got here, but I just wanted to add that. Good.
TEXT> Carolyn,  when a student is sent home now, when they return to school, they see the school nurse. Correct.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to clarify. We don't send.

[R9764-75] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Carolyn Towle: And when they returned to school, they just returned to school.
TEXT> That's correct. But the nurse, the nurse will privately be the nurse will be privately checking on that student.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay, Steve.

[R9764-77] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (author of the proposed no-nit head lice | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Okay, Steve.
TEXT> Maybe the schools are still operating out of procedure, but every time that I've recently dealt with it. I've been the one to catch it because my daughter's head scratching profusely. If our  if we're not going to  change policy,  or our teachers trained to recognize the the characteristics of a child scratching their head because of lice, maybe walk over and take a little look, see, I mean, we're basically allowing the problem to persist. We're either ignoring it or something. And maybe, maybe a study needs to be done. I mean, or a poll taken to find out how many staff members have contracted lice this year.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Do we have any? We never had any.

[R9764-92] Michael Petrin |  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: They just don't have to be at school.
TEXT> But you're if the school's duty is to educate kids, then they should be at school. If if we're playing devil's advocate, if we're doing the flip side here, if the school's duty is to educate kids, they should be at school getting education, not if they're not caring for, then we're not telling parents how to take care of headlines.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: The argument to that, though, is, is that why should one child's education be disrupted due to the fact that one parent isn't doing their responsibility? Why should it now

[R9764-97] Emily | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens student ('Emily Ward two' [202]; ask | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: been my experience, is that's still the same, I would imagine. Okay. Carolyn. I. I would really like, the audience people to, way in on this at this point. Come on, come on up. State your name and your work when you get up here.
TEXT> Emily Ward two. I'm speaking from a student standpoint. I went to dinner during the 2011, 2012 year, and I was in third grade there and there, if there was a detection of lice in her class, the whole class got checked in. The lack of better words. Buggy student was sent home at the end of the day  in the whole class got screened, but the whole class wasn't screened on a regular. It was if there was a detection. And I think that might be a good solution coming from a student's point. And I also have a question for Doctor Goodwin. Is your research your source available to community members to see?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Yes. Great question. Everything the school board has received, I sent out to, all the parents of the Claremont School District also sent it to the media so they they

[R9764-98] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Emily: screened on a regular. It was if there was a detection. And I think that might be a good solution coming from a student's point. And I also have a question for Doctor Goodwin. Is your research your source available to community members to see?
TEXT> Yes. Great question. Everything the school board has received, I sent out to, all the parents of the Claremont School District also sent it to the media  so they they could provide access as well. We also have for the past three years had information on our website on head lice information. So we're trying to provide information and support for, for  all parents and certainly their children.
NEXT> Emily: I also have another question. I don't know if you can answer, but how much power do the school nurses have in the treatment of lice? Would it be possible

[R9764-101] Emily | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens student ('Emily Ward two' [202]; ask | 2018-05-02
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I do know that the school nurses are available and provide medical assistance and keeping communication with the children's parents, but school nurses are not going to be treating a child without the parent being aware of it.
TEXT> I had something else to say, but I forgot.  Oh. I have a question for my dad, actually. Do you, in your policy, do you have a goal for finding the source of the head lice, the student that mainly has it, or mixing the problem altogether?
NEXT> Steven Horsky: It's one of those situations. It's lice. You don't necessarily. You're not going to catch the source right out of the gate. The goal is, is to try to prevent

[R9764-103] Emily | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens student ('Emily Ward two' [202]; ask | 2018-05-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: out in the public forums. So I mean, there's multiple levels of this problem in there. It's an increasing distraction down to the student to the staff. So the goal is to try to eliminate the distraction and try to contain it if we can.
TEXT> You mentioned levels. Does that include school levels? Because I know from my experience,  mainly elementary schools get it, whereas middle school and high school kids aren't as prone to it.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: It does seem to be an elementary school problem for my knowledge at this point, because I haven't had it at the middle school level yet.

[R9764-110] Don Churchill |  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Don Churchill: I understand that, it is highly contagious. However, it is not known to cause illness and things like that. However, I, I'd be curious to know how many of those medical professionals have had to come home with their kids and have to treat them.
TEXT> You know, and I also would be fine if you sent my child home. And I will tell you that I would not send my child to school until I knew that they were not free. You know, that would be a very important to me, because I would not want to cause the ripple effect. So I, I think. That's all I have to say. But I like the policy. I like probably 95% of the policy. I think it absolutely has to change. And I definitely think one of the big things, though, is notifying parents if there is an outbreak that is critical, that that has to be in the new policy.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you very much. I told you to move down from. I guess.

[R9764-115] Unidentified | Unidentified - mixed: end of prior commenter, chair's thanks, and the  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Mimi Ryan: know. But if you keep them out of school for half a third grade and then what happens? They don't get those skills and then it's a constant trying to catch up. And I it's I think that's unfair to the kid to be honest.
TEXT> That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Sure, sure Eileen. Love it. Board to yes, it is a high school problem as well.  The. Issue here, as far as the policy is concerned, I don't think the question is, should we keep kids out of school or in school? Obviously, we want to provide an environment where they can get the most education possible. For me, the issue is transmission and how to stop it because it is highly contagious. And I know from personal experience, my daughter, had to deal with it in high school, and the only reason we found out about it is because she had happened to have an appointment in Vermont, and it is their policy in the state of Vermont that if a mutation is working on somebody and they see  lice, or in her case, just the nits, then they have to stop right then and there.  It doesn't matter what part of the procedure they're in as far as the hair appointment, they stop. And the reason why they stop is because they're trying to stop the transmission.  So why do I share this? It's because I think the focus of the policy has to be with regard to transmission.
NEXT> Unidentified: It is very difficult to deal with it once it comes home. And I don't know where she got it. It could have been in school. It could have been

[R9764-116] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, Ward 2, parent of a high school daugh | 2018-05-02
PREV> Unidentified: in as far as the hair appointment, they stop. And the reason why they stop is because they're trying to stop the transmission. So why do I share this? It's because I think the focus of the policy has to be with regard to transmission.
TEXT> It is very difficult to deal with it once it comes home. And I don't know where she got it. It could have been in school. It could have been somewhere else. We don't know. We don't know where the source is.  But we do know unequivocally that is highly contagious and that dealing with it is not a one one stop solution. We had to throw away stuffed animals, do beddings not once, not twice, three times. And it's it's you have to be vigilant. But at the end of the day, you know, I've read the policy, I've done some online research. I don't believe when I read the policy last time that it includes like chronic infestation. If there's a child that continually there's a different situation there and the school needs to take action on that. I just think you need to beef up this policy a little bit in different areas. I don't believe the answer is to keep kids out of school, but I do believe the focus of the policy has to be on transmission. And how do you stop it? The other thing is you've got to think.  About the reality. I raised my daughter.
NEXT> Unidentified: Don't share your combs, don't share your brushes. They're going to do it anyway. Whether they're in elementary school or high school. It's just, you know, somebody needs a brush.

[R9764-117] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, Ward 2, parent of a high school daugh | 2018-05-02
PREV> Unidentified: believe the answer is to keep kids out of school, but I do believe the focus of the policy has to be on transmission. And how do you stop it? The other thing is you've got to think. About the reality. I raised my daughter.
TEXT> Don't share your combs, don't share your brushes. They're going to do it anyway. Whether they're in elementary school or high school. It's just, you know, somebody needs a brush. You just share your brush with your friend, you don't think about the repercussions. And they as young adults and kids, they don't think about it.  So I don't you can have policies in place, but you have to look at it from the perspective of what is really going to happen. And then are we at school teaching them, you know, personal hygiene  when we have these health classes and why you shouldn't do certain things. And that only reinforces what parents are saying at home, I hope.  But, it's got to be a global effort. And that's why, at the end of the day, why we we were talking about discussing this at the joint level, because the source of the infestation could be in the schools, it could be in the communities we don't know. So therefore the focus has to be on stopping the transmission.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.

[R9764-134] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [73],[148],[198];  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Unidentified: I think just something else to keep in mind is, in terms.
TEXT> Of students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Being at a school, I haven't inquiry out to our state, director around our homeless population. I'm not sure that even if we have a local policy, that's a no

[R9764-135] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU administrator reporting an inquiry to the state hom | 2018-05-02
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Of students.
TEXT> Being at a school, I haven't inquiry out to our state, director around our homeless population.  I'm not sure that even if we have a local policy, that's a no net policy that says kids have to stay out of school, that we have legal grounds to keep homeless students out and have lights. So I'm confirming that for us, because that information may change where you choose to go with a policy is federal Trumps local?
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: My my comment to that would be the emphasis is not for these kids to stay out of school. I just.

[R9764-142] Michael Petrin |  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. Like you had your hand up to do. So I'm sure.
TEXT> I would support moving forward with changing our policy. I would support some policy change as far as possibly looking at schools. Like your daughter said, nursing home nurses being able to treat or help treat, policy of sending kids home, possibly. As well as looking at transmission. I would not support a no new policy is as far as known before returning to school support making some changes in how we work like that and how look for headlights in the schools. And they get to the nurses doctor doing some inspections.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I tend to agree with what Mike said, and I think that the, the idea of, having a conversation about having writing in the policy that has to do with

[R9764-143] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Go forward. Jason.' [51] an | 2018-05-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: I would not support a no new policy is as far as known before returning to school support making some changes in how we work like that and how look for headlights in the schools. And they get to the nurses doctor doing some inspections.
TEXT> I tend to agree with what Mike said, and I think that the, the idea of, having a conversation about having writing in the policy that has to do with these people that have, continual infestations where it's a, you know, it's documented issue. Because. The one kid that comes and has lice once in three years. Sort of has to be approached very differently than somebody who as a, on a continual basis. And I think that I, I don't believe that that would. Separate out a large. Group of. Kids from, from being educated. But if there is a smattering or a handful of real problem cases, then I think we should be able to put something into the policy that allows us to deal with that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. Rebecca. There's also the hippo laws, which which prevent public bodies from having access to information about students so that that's somewhat of a challenge. Tonight in the

[R9764-155] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [0]-[15]; add | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So is there any further discussion? Okay. That's okay. All in favor. I opposed. Okay. Climate and culture survey information.
TEXT> Yes. Today all all  staff in our respective schools received a survey. The survey, if I may read the survey, examines attitudes and experiences with different aspects of the educational environment, including staff connectedness, structure for learning, school safety, the physical environment, peer and adult relations, parent involvement. Parents. Later this week, I hope, will also receive a survey electronically and voluntarily to respond. These responses are completely anonymous. No information will be connected to answer, and results will only be reported as group responses. The results are going to be summarized by an external evaluator at Antioch University, and shared with individual school and district administrators. Individual school climate survey results are not shared publicly without prior permission from each school administrator. That's how the climate survey was. The school climate survey was established, so there's going to be staff input regarding their respective school. And then parents of children in our five schools will also be given the opportunity. Each survey is for a specific school. So if you happen to be a parent of a Claremont Middle School child and a Bluff Elementary School child, then you will complete two surveys for Claremont Middle and for bluff.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And you cannot complete surveys of the schools. So the schools will be broken down in that aspect. I know that the school board, from looking at the minutes of

[R9764-180] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Carolyn' [73],[148],[198];  | 2018-05-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you. Okay. That looks like is the end of our board meeting.
TEXT> Can we have a good for your. Just, something to contemplate on? Sure. I've been approached a couple of by a couple people. Students get it gradually. That really would like to come and speak to the school board as to what their minds are and, what the future should look like, particularly for students. High school. What they'd like to see change. So I'd like to throw that out at some point so we can visit, invite those to come back.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Should they, today.

[R9790-7] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: We have an agenda tonight in front of us. Are there any amendments to that agenda? If I could, I would. Karen,
TEXT> National Honor Society, as well as class of 2017.  She's listed under Roman numeral seven, A and B to address the board. I'm going to ask that that be moved forward. But Mrs. Collison is involved with a tennis match right now with Stevens High School students. So when she arrives at the appropriate time, if we could move that forward. Absolutely. Between agenda items under discussion items.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. That's fine. Thank you.

[R9790-31] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: you a former employee of the New Hampshire Department of Education, Edward. He is now a member of the Keene School Board. And he said in an email last week, we read last week's article in the paper about the inadequate state funding for education.
TEXT> And he was talking about Claremont, as well as other articles that have been in in the media. We would like to know more about the intentions of other districts going forward, and may be willing to join in any group effort. So I spoke to Mr. Murdoch. I worked with him. 20 1112 and 13 with the Unity Elementary School building project when he was working for the Department of Energy. There was a great deal of interest with the Keene  School Board. He said that, but he said the king is known for being very supportive of education. But we are a property poor community, partly due to the land owned by Keene State not being on our tax rolls. While somewhat better off than other communities, we consistently have one of the top five tax rates in the state our peer districts, meaning those with similar number of students such as Bedford Londonderry of Salem, have 2 or 3 times the total assessed value that we do.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So the playing field is on, is unlevel, and he's very interested. Speaking for the Keene School Board to what's going to be happening tonight, with John Tobin as well

[R9790-32] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: off than other communities, we consistently have one of the top five tax rates in the state our peer districts, meaning those with similar number of students such as Bedford Londonderry of Salem, have 2 or 3 times the total assessed value that we do.
TEXT> So the playing field is on, is unlevel, and  he's very interested. Speaking for the Keene School Board to  what's going to be happening tonight,  with John Tobin as well as  Tom Connor  speaking this evening.  Very interested in what's going to be discussed tonight. And I think that other communities are starting to watch, too. I'm not going to predict their actions, but we cannot continue to go forward the way we have with declining state aid and the burden being put on the resident paying real estate. You are invited on June 4th at 6:00 to participate in the Adult Education graduation ceremony that will take place here at the Tech Center. Amy Hood, the director of the Adult Ed,  certainly hopes you can participate. It's a wonderful experience to see,  students receive their high school equivalency who have had challenges between the time they started public education and getting toward the finishing point. So  it's very heartwarming to see some great young men and women receive their adult education and have certainly a step forward as they go toward the workplace. And last but not least, I'm going to be passing around  a booklet. This booklet was produced by the Bluff Elementary School. It represents the students of Deborah Bates third grade class Animals around the world, a collection of informative reports.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Each student in Deborah Bates class wrote and informative report and there were pictures. And this just gives one example of what our students are doing. And I thought you

[R9790-43] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll call as 'Frank Sp | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Michel. I'm actually my question was answered. Okay.
TEXT> Segue on the artwork as I have my physical therapist doing this thing on my shoulder. I was looking up at the ceiling today, and there was a a tile in the ceiling that was decorated by, I think, Stevens High School students. So there are tiles and some of the physical therapy,  areas that Stevens High School students did too. So,  I'm going to miss the wonderful segue you just presented with school funding, and I'm going to have Mrs. Collison come up now, and then we will get to, the school funding presentation. So we have you on the agenda for two things, Mrs. Collison. That's correct.  Honor society, shantytown. And,  what was the other one?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Stevens High School, class of 2017 donation.

[R9790-75] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll call as 'Frank Sp | 2018-05-16
PREV> Karen Collison: So and we, we raise money for the soup kitchen for local charities and for our own, national dues, which are about $400. And I don't want to I don't want to hike up dues anymore for the kids. So.
TEXT> Questions for Mrs. Coulson. And again, how many are there in the. It's just the National Honor Society kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[R9790-95] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: We've gone a little bit out of order and agenda, so I'd like to open up the floor right now for citizens comments. If anyone would like to come up and address the board.
TEXT> So I just wanted to share with the board because I knew Lexi wouldn't wouldn't talk about it. So we had a I was given the opportunity  to nominate a student, a junior or senior female to the, lake on a regional Vienna hospice luncheon. And they do this. They have done it since, I believe, the early 2000. This was year 14 for the high school nomination, year 19 for the woman  nominee, and  they  asked for the basis someone who a woman who has young woman who has made a difference in your school and community. And so the letter that I wrote to them this year was, we would like to recommend Lexi Grenier as our candidate for recognition at the Women Who Make a Difference luncheon. I've had the privilege of knowing Lexi since she was a freshman. She's one of the most talented, driven, dedicated, and empathetic young women I've ever met. She is the epitome of what I consider to be extraordinary. Lexi is involved in all aspects of her school and community. She's a member of National Honor Society, Student Council, Band, chorus, Triad Music Honor Society, Stephen Ayers volunteers at the Soup Kitchen, Student Voice, she's the student up to the school board and organizer of our kickoff with NFL Fuel up to play 60 to get a breakfast cart and smoothie machine to provide free breakfast.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: She led the student walk out for school safety, ensuring the event was done with dignity as a dedication to the students who lost their lives in parkland, Florida. She

[R9790-125] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> John Tobin: to, as you know so well, is the local taxpayers have to make up the difference in paying for the state's duty. All of you who are taxpayers here, a lot of your there's a little sliver of your taxes that says statewide property tax.
TEXT> In fact, a whole lot of it is you're paying local taxes at really high rates to do what the state should be doing. And the other part of the Claremont case, one of the other key principles was whatever tax you pick, legislature, the rate has to be across the same across the state. And that is so far from the truth and the article that I that I sent you, that Middleton sent around. There's a little chart and it really it what I tried to do in writing that article was to show in, in numerical terms, how a city like Claremont works extra hard, taxes itself higher. But because the tax base is low, it can raise less money. And how profoundly unfair that is. I think a lot of people don't understand that system. So the principles are established, we've established the principles. And now I think it's it's laughable when the average cost  of providing an education to a kid in New Hampshire is 15,000, that the state says, oh, only really costs 3600. That's a joke. That's ridiculous. So now we have to take those those two really contradictory things and go back to court and show that we don't have we.
NEXT> John Tobin: No longer have to convince the court that it's a state duty. We just have to show that the state's not complying with the duty and that the result of

[R9790-130] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> John Tobin: the property tax system to people. I feel like I can explain that to people, but we need to have some people who can testify as experts, and so we need to find them and work with them, and they will need to do reports.
TEXT> And we need to identify we need to figure out who are the best parties or plaintiffs to bring this case right now, right off the bat, I think taxpayers, you know, I think maybe the ideal plaintiff would be someone who's a parent and a homeowner and taxpayer and  and has kids in the school because they got lots of things at stake. There's some complicated rules about who can bring a case and who has what lawyers call standing to challenge things. So we need to figure that out.  I think it would, you know, again, very early stage, I think it would be telling to have some businesses step forward and be plaintiffs, be businesses in Claremont or Berlin or Pittsfield who say, this really hurts, this unfair system, hurts us as taxpayers and is unfair to us as taxpayers. And so and we again, we really need to find allies. And again, I'm at the very beginning of conversations with people in the education world,  and, and other leaders and other people who who care about this issue. It's going to take time. Part of it is going to be,  finding the money to pay for some of these experts and to pay for some of the expenses of bringing a lawsuit.
NEXT> John Tobin: The last time somebody asked me about this the other day, and the last time none of the lawyers got paid, initially we didn't have any money for experts, so

[R9790-148] Tom Connor | Claremont attorney, Claremont school funding litigation (invited as 'M | 2018-05-16
PREV> Tom Connor: education, then the vast majority of people, the vast majority of people in Claremont, and I don't know if anyone's ever done the numbers, would, at the end of the day, pay significantly less in overall taxes when you take into account the property tax.
TEXT> And whether it be, you know, there are a lot of rich people who come to New Hampshire because they know.  And I'm not making a generalization, but, you know, the rich communities and a lot of them are imports  of people who know, hey,  you know, I came here because I was lulled here saying, you're not going to pay any taxes, and now you're telling me I have to pay for kids in some other town? It's the you know, I've got mine, you get yours mentality, which is an unhealthy, it's an,  I don't know, just an unhealthy attitude in the state. And this also let me emphasize two is not a this is not a Partizan debate. And maybe to some extent it is from time to time. But you look at all the governors who could have done a whole lot more spread across both sides of the aisle,  you know. Anyway, that my $0.02.
NEXT> John Tobin: Yeah, I mean, this it's really up to the legislature to pick the tax. That's their job separation powers. But whatever they pick got to be the same rate. And

[R9790-218] John Tobin | Attorney, Claremont school funding litigation, retired from New Hampsh | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Well, there's the statewide property taxes, which is this really low rate. There's  the adequacy grant, which is this 3600 year and a little higher for some kids who meet certain categories, basically the adequacy grant. And then there's this thing called stabilization aid. When the legislature first wrote the formula, they actually took into account fiscal disparity. There was a piece of the formula called fiscal disparity Aid that was designed to help Claremont in Pittsfield. The speaker, O'Brien legislature in 2011 took that away. And some other aid that was supposed to help poor districts. There were enough people in the legislature then to raise a think about that and say, well, you're going to take that away, but don't cut, you know, give people have a whole harmless. So stabilization aid was supposed to be a whole harmless, that in 2015 was essentially said, no, we're going to cut it. We're going to cut it 4% a year.  And so that started in 2015 and it's happening now. So those are the three.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Thank you pieces.

[R9790-257] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; answers roll call as 'Frank Sp | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Then.
TEXT> The student services person and the principal.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: And the administrative assistant. No. Yeah. Right. Because the administrative assistant would be 114. So that's correct.

[R9790-313] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: I wanted.
TEXT> To share with you.  I am, after I complete my seventh year.  I am continuously being reminded  of certain indicators. And it's been it's been troubling. And I think it's important that we have some candid discussions.  And, and I just want to share with you, I was reminded about some of these indicators today when we talked with some of our seniors. This isn't a declaration that the sky is falling. This isn't a pointing fingers. But you as a board are very interested in communication and engagement. You as a boarder, very interested in culture and climate.  Our strategic plan involves engagement. So I'm plan to come back to you with some specific thoughts and ways we can start to address as a school culture,  how we treat each other. And and though  the article attached to Civility in Climate school climate talks about bullying and cyber bullying, I'm not going to use those words. I'm going to talk about civility, how we treat each other. I'm talking about how students treat each other, how adults treat each other. And to work in a collaborative manner, not just the school principals and the teachers, but the schools, the parents, the residents reaching out and in engaging way to develop a way of doing business, to come to an agreement about how we're going to be doing business.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It very, very important to me that we be honest with the reality that different schools in our country, will all talk about bullying. If you read the article about

[R9790-315] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: talking about engaging parents. I am talking about engaging residents. And I don't have this plan. But I do want to tell you that when you talk about the importance of culture and in climate and engagement, that is a priority of mine as well.
TEXT> And I don't want to use the word bullying. I do want to use the word civility. And if you look at civility, it's how we treat each other and in truth, that's connected to bullying.  And so as I said before,  I want to come back with some thoughts. I very interested in your input. And these thoughts will be a plan of action which will be in which will have plans to engage and to develop a way of, of of working toward enhancing our school climate. And I think, I think this is a positive step because every school across our nation has issues. And I think it's positive to say, you know, let's, let's, let's talk about them and do this together. That's something to be proud of. Versus, well, you know, that just how things are. And you know, they're adolescents or you know, they're little. No, no,  I'm not interested in making excuses. I'm interested in working with others to make improvements. And that can't be done by 1 or 2 people. It can't be done by a school board alone, but it can be done by by educators, school boards, working with parents, working with students, and developing protocols together. So I look forward to that discussion with you. I'm just giving you a 10,000 mile  mile high view tonight and just want to let you know where I'm going, but where I'm going  compliments your goals that you discussed April 22nd.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just had a quick question. Middleton. I know that this was something that we had talked about when I first started on the board. And, I like your idea

[R9790-319] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> I would  you know, when we talk about parents and all of you are parents or grandparents, you have children, you love your children or grandchildren, you want them to be in a school environment where there is an understanding of how we're going to be doing business.  And it's not just an issue of what's in the handbook or what the protocols are, but in the agreement of how we'll do business. That has to be a community discussion. New Hampshire listens a a  mark on May 31st. New Hampshire listeners is coming down to talk to Corey LeClaire, Bruce, Bruce Howard and others to talk about the work we've done in the past year and a half and planning for the future. That will be part of  the discussion I'd like to have with them. But as I said before, Rebecca, I'm not interested in having a multi-year plan. I just want to try to keep I just want to take a step back and ask and develop an awareness and have the discussions about how we as a society has how we as a school culture and as a school community. And when I say school community, I'm talking about the Claremont community can can do this together.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. And I think that, I think the community is very ready to start having those conversations. So this is a positive.

[R9790-327] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (raised the cell phone item; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: So,
TEXT> Thank you. It's a good segue, really, speaking about bullying and how people treat each other. I guess my, my question or it's gotten me wondering not so much at the elementary levels, but at the, at the middle school and most, most definitely at the high school levels. How are policies  that as they're written right now? First of all, are being enforced. And secondly, if they're working to provide the best atmosphere for learning that we could possibly have in our schools. So I've had a fair amount of time to read some articles online and some other things  that suggest that,  among other things, cell phones and schools contribute to cyberbullying. They also have a tendency to. How do I say this  not be conducive to retention of information when it's presented? There was I have this here because I thought I should site something. This is an article about the effects of on students and classes with cell phones. And this is an old study, but it's a relatively,  relatively respected study by these two scientists named and Beckman. And it was done in 1975. And it wasn't about cell phones, obviously, at that point in time, but it was about splitting your attention and how when trying to pay attention to more than one thing at a time, you recall about being able to bring back whatever you learned was highly affected by  by by this.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So what they did was they showed films to a group, a study group, where they had two films imposed upon each other, and there was one film of I

[R9790-328] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (raised the cell phone item; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: at that point in time, but it was about splitting your attention and how when trying to pay attention to more than one thing at a time, you recall about being able to bring back whatever you learned was highly affected by by by this.
TEXT> So what they did was they showed films to a group,  a study group, where they had two films imposed upon each other, and there was one film of I think it was people playing football. And there was another one of people doing another  activity. And when they told the people to simply pay attention to  one of those films versus both of those films, the recall was quite good. But when they told them to try to pay attention to both of them and then recall what had happened, their ability to recall detail was considerably lost.  That corresponds greatly to what it's like to try. I, I expect to try to teach a kid who is texting a friend and trying to pay attention to what's going on,  in front of them when a teacher is teaching them. So. That's something to consider. You know, I had the opportunity to speak with some graduating seniors today, and from what I gathered from them, and I only spoke to four. So it's a small but but it seemed like overall consensus was  there's not a lot of consistency right now, and I'm not exactly sure that any of them truly know what the policy is.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I have the policy here and I thought I'd read it for people who are watching so they actually know what the policy is. So this is for the high

[R9790-329] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (raised the cell phone item; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: I gathered from them, and I only spoke to four. So it's a small but but it seemed like overall consensus was there's not a lot of consistency right now, and I'm not exactly sure that any of them truly know what the policy is.
TEXT> I have the policy here and I thought I'd read it for people who are watching so they actually know what the policy is.  So this is for the high school, I have the middle school and I have the elementary schools here as well. Elementary school is relatively non-existent. There's I don't think there's a lot of kids bringing the phones to the elementary school, but it's pretty much it's got to be put away, and you just can't use it when you get to the high school, however, there's sort of like a, a boxes when I can and when I can't use it. So before school starts, they're able to use their phone during lunch periods, they're able to use it and after school during passing time, which I assume is when you're walking to class. Am I right in that they say you shouldn't?  While well headed to the bathroom during class? You can't while in the bathroom during class, you can't during  the class you cannot when you're at the library, you cannot during advisory.
NEXT> Jason Benware: No in student services now, during study halls and during assemblies. No, that's what this policy says. And in case a phone goes off in class, what should you do?

[R9790-331] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (raised the cell phone item; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: working. So I think it would be good to do a survey of the teachers and the staff at the schools and find out their feelings about how these things are, and and I do know and I, I read both sides of the story.
TEXT> It's not just the negatives. I understand that sometimes  there are things  that, teachers will use them as a tool for,  for helping students learn as well. I'm just afraid that the the negatives outweigh the positives in this scenario.  Also, you know, I'm going to use an example I heard someone say recently, and I think it makes sense if if somebody just an example, say, say there's a, a girl who's in class, a young lady who's in class and one of her friends sees her boyfriend talking to another girl in the hall, down the street, down the way. It's very easy for that person to then text her that in the middle of class and say, hey, you know, Billy was talking to Susie in the hall, and potentially create a fair amount of drama and distraction and even, you know, worst case scenario, an altercation  all without there being the ability to sort of instantly share that information. I think that would take away a fair amount of a potential for conflict. And, Cyberbullying, if indeed this policy is, you know, fulfilled as it's written, you're keeping. The phone out of their hands for six hours a day. Based on my basic figuring, that's about one third of the time that we're awake.  That would seem to me that you could maybe theoretically, cut down your cyberbullying by a third.
NEXT> Unidentified: So. Jason. Yeah.

[R9790-350] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Get there or survey, because.
TEXT> I feel there's two I'm hearing two things. So hear me out if you don't mind. I'm hearing one part here, but I'm also hearing the students, not understanding. So I think it needs to be simplified a little bit.  It's kind of like attention spans and all that jazz,  and I feel like I agree completely with with the fact that the cell phones are probably interrupting.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm sorry. That's, No. I'm good.

[R9790-362] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives Superintendent's report [39]; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Middleton. Yeah. Thank you.
TEXT> The policy electronic communication recording devices, permissible use of electronic devices will be detailed in the school board approved student parent handbooks annually. So what you're reading in a handbook that you approve is policy. But the one thing that I think we're missing is, is listening to the administration. And when I say administration, I'm not talking about myself. I'm talking about the building principles. I think you are hearing. You have heard and you're hearing inconsistencies or just exactly what is. That's what it says. But we're hearing something different. So that's very that's a viable comment or question.  And I just think before you go too much further, I would recommend that the administration can talk to you about just exactly what's going on in their schools. Not to defend, but rather to give you what's happening every day in their schools. And then you you can make an informed decision as to what direction you would like to proceed. I think what you've what you've put on the table  are all viable thoughts. But I think there's one piece missing and that is the building principal.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Rebecca.

[R9790-369] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Did see.
TEXT> Actually, a quick thing about, just to share with everyone a school where they actually paid them to put their cell phones in a lockbox. They, you know, they came up with a system, an award system, and they had a little lock box that they went into. And every morning they come to school and it would go in there and they would be rewarded for that. I feel like they have their laptops. The teachers  have lots of instructional to teach them  and and that it's almost a nuisance.  And the cause of why it's even in the classroom to begin with is confusing for me. Because I would be as, as a student myself, thinking I would be really frustrated if I kept hearing, you know, the tables vibrating around me while I was trying to hear an instruction. So I, I think that we need to look past whether this or that, but also think about there's more affecting it than just this or this. It's  a lot of different people.
NEXT> Unidentified: And microphones.

[R9790-373] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Because yes.
TEXT> 50% of the time the person who's texting the child is the parent.  And without their full cooperation and buy in on whatever policy we have, it's a two legs of a three legged stool going on. So administration and teachers and, and if you could hear some of the conversations where the phone is, is out here and the parent is on the other end, and they are taking us to task for having taken that phone that they pay for from their child and following our policy. That's another piece of the struggle that we have. And so and I've said this, I've said this  on any given day I go from, I wish I never saw another one in my entire life, and my life would just be so much easier, and so would my teachers to saying we are preparing them for a world in which these devices are a part of their lives, and everything that mankind knows is on this device. It is  an unbelievable tool. We have to make that a part of the education of how to use it responsibly in the workplace, in college, etc. so I'm torn. I'm very, very torn about the presence of these devices and how we we handle this at the high school level. And it's different than it should be at the middle school, in the elementary school level.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: I'm, I really seek feedback from everybody on this and guidance because it's not going away. And I know that some teachers are reluctant to engage in that conversation with

[R9790-378] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: I do so.
TEXT> I would be curious to know me. And then you probably can't really answer this off the top of your head.  However, if a kindergartner,  becomes violent, they evacuate the room.  If you don't, if you take a cell phone away from,  a high schooler, I  I'm confused. They don't. Where where where is our consistency with  how we're even reprimanding if if if a child's misbehaving in class because they're not using their phone properly  and the teacher's reluctance to take it away from them, that's, that's teaching them that it's okay to, to continue doing something. I really feel like.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It's a referral. What what that ends up happening is that becomes a referral to to administration. Administration now spends a significant amount of time interviewing that student. Often what

[R9790-379] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: how we're even reprimanding if if if a child's misbehaving in class because they're not using their phone properly and the teacher's reluctance to take it away from them, that's, that's teaching them that it's okay to, to continue doing something. I really feel like.
TEXT> It's a referral. What what that ends up happening is that becomes a referral to to administration. Administration now spends a significant amount of time interviewing that student. Often what happens is that the teacher, more often than not, the scenario is that the teacher asks for the phone. If that student is not willing to give that device up, that student will leave the classroom with their device. Often they will leave the building altogether, or they will just disappear. We now hunt that student down. We now, work through the whole process administratively with them. It's a phone call home. Maybe if the student can be convinced that this is the wrong choice. Perhaps it's just an ES. If they don't, it's an OS. It's a reentry. So it. We do follow through. No. Nobody gets away with  not doing what the teacher is asking them to do without there being some consequence.  But it's the level of tolerance that different teachers may have in their classroom over those behaviors, just like any other behavior, just like any teacher may have a higher level of tolerance for what they will put up with, or the number of times they will ask a student to redirect or do something differently.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I think that speaks to the inconsistency that you heard from our students that some teachers are. There's the box, your phone goes in the box, and you can

[R9790-381] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: inconsistency happens. And students know they know how to they can text behind their back with one thumb and not misspell anything. I mean, you know, it's so trying to find who in that classroom is inappropriately using their device is also the other challenge.
TEXT> So and the second part of my question is, do you all children have access to a cell phone in high school?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, not all students have cell phones. They don't know.

[R9790-382] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So and the second part of my question is, do you all children have access to a cell phone in high school?
TEXT> Well, not all students have cell phones. They don't know.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And so so here again, we're we're we're not being fair to everyone. And and as the lawyer said earlier, it has to be all of us together. And this

[R9790-383] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: Well, not all students have cell phones. They don't know.
TEXT> And so so here again, we're we're we're not being fair to everyone. And and as the lawyer said earlier, it has to be all of us together. And this is one of the examples of, of where, you know, it's frustrating to think that a child is going to sit there in high school and not be able to have a cell phone, but the kid is going to have a cell phone because they can afford it, but this guy can't. Can we provide cell phones for everybody? They can't have a cell phone in my.
NEXT> Unidentified: School.

[R9790-396] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Thank you Pat' [560], 'Mrs. | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: what I wanted to ask and I don't I'm not sure if you can answer this or not, but, I know that the when the kids start the school year every year, they get a student handbook. Yes. And it's got this policy in it.
TEXT> We have not done paper copies in the last couple of years in order to reduce copying costs, etc.. So we tell students that they're online, but we don't give that them a paper copy.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's actually not what I was just starting there. Okay. The actual question is, do you require all. Of your teachers to read. The student handbook every year? Do all

[R9790-397] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (raised the cell phone item; addressed ' | 2018-05-16
PREV> Patricia Barry: We have not done paper copies in the last couple of years in order to reduce copying costs, etc.. So we tell students that they're online, but we don't give that them a paper copy.
TEXT> That's actually not what I was just starting there. Okay. The actual question is, do you require all. Of your teachers to read. The student handbook every year? Do all of your teachers actually. Know do. If I were to ask ten year teachers right now,  what is the cell phone policy, could they tell me? And that's kind of what I'm wondering, because it sounds to me like there's one of two things going on. Either they don't know the policy or they're willfully choosing not to follow it. Some of them, I mean, if they're allowing students to use cell phones in the classroom, then obviously they've they've either they don't know the policy or they simply said, well, I know the policy, but I still think for one reason or another, I think they should be able to use cell phones in my class. So that's all I'm asking, because, I mean, we we say it's the student's responsibility to know the rules. I'm just curious and I'm not attacking the teachers or anything. I just simply want to know, are they required to know these things electronically?
NEXT> Unidentified: Sign.

[R9790-416] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Life. Skill.
TEXT> Life skills classes or  or as I heard today, several kids felt that they would, felt more successful if they could have been in things that were more life skill set rather than, you've got to take this because  and, and then,  I, I'm really curious to know about how many children actually receive, if you could get that information to me actually do receive that that information online because how if they're not receiving an online, how else is it getting to them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The.

[R9790-430] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Yes, ma'am' [780], 'Did that | 2018-05-16
PREV> Jason Benware: Of opportunities.
TEXT> I'm not saying that. I guess what I'm asking is  not all kids have. Again, it's like it's like 10%. It's like it's not good enough for me. I want 100%.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, it's just like with, with with report cards, we don't send home printed report cards. And we at the high school haven't for three years now. Anyone who asks

