[R8258-403] Amanda | Public commenter, parent of a child in the early childhood program (fi | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Term.
TEXT> But it might. If this is, we just need another year because we need more time. We need grants. We need to find a place. And that takes time. It really, honestly does. Just like it takes time to find child care.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I mean, you wouldn't be able to enroll your child and, any of the daycares here in town.

[R8258-404] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Amanda: But it might. If this is, we just need another year because we need more time. We need grants. We need to find a place. And that takes time. It really, honestly does. Just like it takes time to find child care.
TEXT> I mean, you wouldn't be able to enroll your child and, any of the daycares here in town.
NEXT> Amanda: I'm.

[R8258-410] Amanda | Public commenter, parent of a child in the early childhood program (fi | 2016-03-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: No, I'm..
TEXT> I guess I'm just adding and I get what you're saying because there are other options. There are a lot of preschools starting at the age of three. My son is two. Okay, there is hardly, I think, one other option for 023 and Doctor Goodwin, if he is saying you can enroll your child, but it starts at the age of three. So I myself am a working parent that has to work financially so I can pay my Claremont taxes. So it's very important for this place to continue just for one more year. We're not going to have this conversation next year because we will probably have another facility, and therefore there will be more places for 0 to 3 and more preschools.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So what's going to happen to the program that children in the high school are signing up to come in and learn how to be?

[R8258-411] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Amanda: taxes. So it's very important for this place to continue just for one more year. We're not going to have this conversation next year because we will probably have another facility, and therefore there will be more places for 0 to 3 and more preschools.
TEXT> So what's going to happen to the program that children in the high school are signing up to come in and learn how to be?
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, I'm saying.

[R8258-415] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: You're doing.
TEXT> It's a teach children.
NEXT> Unidentified: Excuse me.

[R8258-430] Joel Snide | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (ASR 'Joel Snid | 2016-03-16
PREV> Joel Snide: said, there's issues with electives and enrolling students. It's not like English nine everybody takes English nine. There's no question about that. Okay. But that drop existed for that one year as we saw that same drop in culinary arts we have in culinary arts.
TEXT> This year we have four students in level two, because when we went from a double block of single block, we had no level two students to take to take the class.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So so, Joel, can you tell me about the need for this sort of career prep? This these programs are supposed to be to help get kids into a certain

[R8258-431] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (elected 4-3 at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Joel Snide: This year we have four students in level two, because when we went from a double block of single block, we had no level two students to take to take the class.
TEXT> So  so, Joel, can  you tell me about the need for this sort of  career prep? This these programs are supposed to be to help get kids into a certain track. When they get out of high school, they're ready to get right into the job market. For a number of years, we've had the early childhood program, and it was CTE.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R8258-435] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (elected 4-3 at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Joel Snide: We are as lean as we can possibly be. The office staff is myself and my administrative assistant, and that's it. And five teachers, five programs. So when numbers low in this tech center, yes they are. There's only five programs. What do you expect.
TEXT> So in the in the past students that that complete the program with the early childhood, where have they been moving on to. They have they been starting daycares.
NEXT> Joel Snide: Well we've had some some pairs start daycares that worked in the center. But students, I can't speak to that. Some of them have gone on to college. Okay, I

[R8258-449] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: That. Is that.
TEXT> At the federal law, we are projecting the increase in identified children. We're following the guidelines of specialists who work for the Department of Edge. One of them is a Fall Mountain teacher who's on sabbatical. We've gone through the data. I very I've said publicly I'm  not pleased that I'm impacting a lot of caring adults. And I've seen their children, gorgeous little kids. But that's not, can't, can't, can't influence me. And we could you could pass motion one. You're postponing the progress we want to make for another year. But we also have an unfunded question, which is idea. And we need to follow the guidelines of Ida. So that's why I spent the time putting this PowerPoint together.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: I understand that, but what you presented in the idea is you're going to move the location, but you still haven't met the requirement to have unidentified children mixed in

[R8258-450] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: could pass motion one. You're postponing the progress we want to make for another year. But we also have an unfunded question, which is idea. And we need to follow the guidelines of Ida. So that's why I spent the time putting this PowerPoint together.
TEXT> I understand that, but what you presented in the idea is you're going to move the location, but you still haven't met the requirement to have unidentified children mixed in with them. So we still haven't kind of completely filled that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's why we need the room.

[R8258-457] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Michelle.
TEXT> I personally feel that being brand new to the board, knowing quite a bit about several different things, having a grandson who will be coming into the special Education department, going to a, you know, a state funded daycare, will probably be coming to one of the rooms that is going to be over packed. However, I don't feel comfortable making any kind of decision tonight on any of this until I have an opportunity to understand some of it. I this is how I feel. I'm hearing this  a great thing happen. This group of people created a daycare system where people can afford to pay X amount of dollars to bring their children under a qualified place where if school high school children decide they want to follow that path, career can come in there. Although I, I hear it being for people being interested,  I hear that that the  the program has become a wonderful, centered thing that every parent is happy and proud of and the people that have created it.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: However, it's not it's, it's, it's a, it's a business that's been created. They're asking to go private. So we're talking about a school teaching where where you come in

[R8258-482] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (elected 4-3 at this meeting) | 2016-03-16
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Been report is not having, you know, not having the either. I don't know the this they're not have either having this certain skill sets or.
TEXT> I think I know I know where you're going. And I think that goes back to the quality of the program. We understand the quality of the program for, for, you know, caring for children. I think that's irrelevant. For the decision we need to make.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Well, I guess as far as just, I mean, as far as the year, that's it. I mean, that's the only other information. There's no other information that I. I

[R8258-507] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: First reading.
TEXT> You have two policy before you. One is physical examinations of students. I would respectfully request that we delay that. I have received some additional information from the school nurses that make some minor adjustments. So I'd like to postpone this. The second policy is pre-employment drug testing. This policy represents, a concern of the school board has been expressed for a few months. We want to be sure similar to Senate Bill 152, we want to be sure that we are hiring the correct men and women. I am not telling you that I am suspect of any of our employees have a substance abuse problem. I am telling you to ensure that the men and women who are applying are the caliber and type of people we want. I'm talking about a pre-employment drug testing. The city of Claremont does this with all its employees for whatever reason, and I included research for the new board members to understand the background here. For whatever reason,  this has not been much of a practice with public schools remembering the data and remember the presentation of substance abuse. Remember the number of of individuals who are have been admitted into emergency rooms or the deaths.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We have a problem here. I'm not saying anything other than let's tighten things up and be sure the men and women who apply know that they have to not

[R8258-552] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (sworn in at this meeting, three-year te | 2016-03-16
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Came up. Me. Brian, I would like to share with you that Chief of Police, Alex Scott, made a presentation and if I recall his words, he was he told me he was very surprised the school district did not have a pre-employment drug testing.
TEXT> I my only curiosity is this, it is very easy, actually, to pass a drug test, for employment by many ways, actually, in in the realms of the world, actually, in some people will  have their children P for them. And put it in a condom and bring it into the bathroom. There are many ways, unfortunately, having a daughter that's a drug addict who's passed many piss tests. So my thinking is, are we wasting our money by a pre  testing instead? Why aren't we doing just a full on random?
NEXT> Unidentified: We talked about this.

[R8258-590] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-03-16
PREV> Unidentified: Everybody all in favor? I posed I just wanted to.
TEXT> Just to give you a very brief update. It's pretty late. I met with the school nurses last week. We talked about lice. Head lice? Nationally, there were many different philosophical approaches. Some districts will send the child home immediately in some parts of our country. But the key factor here was to ensure that parents know that the school nurses are supportive. It they want to work with the parents if if if the cost of the medication is a challenge, we need to know that privately with the school nurses and  the parents should contact, nurses at any time. But, the key is that they feel the policy is is effective. The concern is the cost factor. The nurses have looked into some alternative of support not to pay someone, give some money to buy it at a pharmacy, but rather to provide some resources in the form of some some lotion or other materials that are sold commercially. And we could buy it in bulk. So we're not saying we're going to be dispensing this, but we are saying that money or financial challenges of families, which is real,  should not be an obstacle, and that we want to support families for having that difficulty. But please. So that's important. The nurses also all have websites now that are up and running.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: There's there's unified forms across the six. And I'm very pleased with the nurses stepping up and working with Charles Gesner and me, Morse and others. And so check out

[R8313-1] Unidentified | Unidentified - kindergarten teacher presenter (recording begins mid-pr | 2016-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: I love the idea of the book with the pictures so they know who people are, because that's anxiety is a huge thing. So if they know who people are, that's a great idea. I don't know who came up with that, but.
TEXT> I do have a cute story about that too. I had one very sweet little student who was pretty anxious coming in, and she unfortunately had to leave us about a month ago and move up to Maine. But she carried that book in her backpack from August to January, and every day she would come. She would bring it in. She would thumb through it. Oh, that's Mrs. Vanni, the secretary. That's you, Mrs.. Howdy. That's Mrs. taste that's miserable. She just thought that was the coolest thing. And she knows those people in that book. And being a little kid and meeting somebody who who lives in a book is a very big deal.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: In addition to some of the items they mentioned, the book, the nursery rhymes and things like that, there's also, ideas for ways parents can engage with their children at

[R8313-2] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: secretary. That's you, Mrs.. Howdy. That's Mrs. taste that's miserable. She just thought that was the coolest thing. And she knows those people in that book. And being a little kid and meeting somebody who who lives in a book is a very big deal.
TEXT> In addition to some of the items they mentioned, the book, the nursery rhymes and things like that, there's also,  ideas for ways parents can engage with their children at home, using those tools to help build the early literacy and early numeracy skills that they need to be successful in school and and later on. And so each year  we have reviewed the items in there. There's a new suggestion on the table for  this coming year of adding Plato and some different things that can be done with Plato to sort of build in that kinesthetic piece of learning.  So  we're excited about not only getting those in the hands of families, but the, the learning that can occur outside of the traditional school day with those kiddos, with those resources that we have. And the only other thing that I want to say is that in April,  the month of April. So starting now, kindergarten registration is happening at all of our schools. So for the families that are already in Claremont with  students who will be of age for kindergarten next year, now is the time to go to your neighborhood school to register for kindergarten for the fall.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Question on the benchmarks. The benchmark is that what the grade level performance should be at? All students should be at that by the end of the year. Is that

[R8313-22] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: I'm sure they are.
TEXT> Do you do the book at all three schools that you talked about? So each child from each school. Oh.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I would like to thank you. Because I know it was a challenge. Going from half day to full day, you're you're teaching so much more, and there's there's so

[R8313-49] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I said, forward, a plan that would be a multi-year plan. But I want to caution you, the goal is not to create this, a thick document that's going to suffocate itself by volume, but rather clarity and clear goals and objectives and a direction.
TEXT> And I think as we develop this, we're not going to be adding a lot of different layers, but we're going to be clarifying this is where we are, and this is where we want to be in X number of years, and how we as a district will, will navigate toward that. So that's, I wanted to let you know we are forming some thoughts. We're going to come back to the board and share these thoughts with you, because you have to be a part of this process, and you have to agree with the way we're going to go about doing business.  And so please stay tuned for that. You know, Corey mentioned  about front loading, talking about early education.  And putting a commitment to our younger children. One of the areas that  Kathleen Burnell and Corey LeClair and others have been discussing is putting our putting resources into age. Ages 3 to 9. And that's going to be a part of, of  of we hope, the the strategic plan. But again, the plan is not developed by a small group of people. It should be developed by representatives of the board, of the faculty, the administration and the community. Because the Claremont School District is the community and impacts the community. So stay tuned for more updates on that as this forms Middleton.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Would we be folding in to that strategic plan, for example, the Newport Claremont CTE issues as well as perhaps knee ask is coming soon. Whatever they say. Would those

[R8313-53] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Class rank progress report.
TEXT> Just to let you know that we had a discussion about class rank last month. We have I met with the high school faculty.  Let me back that up. High school, the high school guidance.  And shared, along with Kathleen Bonnell and Cory LeClair. And we discussed some of the concerns of the school board, such as there are certain scholarships  that high school students, seniors are awarded that's based on class rank. So we have to and come back with some recommendations as to how this will be phased in. If, in fact, that meets with the board's approval. So the board has some questions. And  John Nancy where Frank sitting now  raised some issues. And those are very viable issues. So we need to be sure that these are aligned and have been taken care of. Before we go forward with the discussion of do we wish  to eliminate class rank and recognize students in another matter? But I'm not saying to you. We're doing that. This is a discussion that's going on now. You know my feelings about that. I think I've shared if I haven't shared the documentation, with Patrick and Michelle and Frank regarding class rank, I need to do that because it will give you rationale as to why we're we're discussing this.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I will share that with you electronically. But again, we're coming back with, more information. And as a result of some of the work going on at Stevens High

[R8313-117] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: The only time that that will all resume a hand. If that's true, science is complicated at the high school level because there's so many different certifications. So there's there is a challenge. They're getting the right applicants for the right opening.
TEXT> I just did a quick little data analysis here from the summer 2014 hires that this was given to us. 19 out of those 24 hires were first year teachers. That is really concerning to me, because as soon as they become second or third year teachers, you can go down the road and that's when they become really valuable. A first year teacher is in a learning mode. The second year they kind of got it. In the third year they've really got it, and that's when we start to lose them. And and I just think that we need to talk about that. And the idea that when we when somebody retires, you've lost a lot of experience there. And then you're hiring someone. Well last year we hired 19 first year teachers. Now what if that  I wouldn't want my child to go all through elementary school with the first year teacher. It's not fair to that student, but they have to start somewhere. So I think that the salary is important and the the benefit package is important. But we also need to figure out a way to keep these talented people.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And, you know, the rhetorical question really is where else is the money going to come from? I mean, that's that's the question where what are our sources of money

[R8313-217] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: Seven.
TEXT> And you have the new policy and the major change, if you compare the current policy. And the portion of that current policy that is, highlighted or darkened, if you will, and the reason the new policy is being recommended is because with the current policy, we have students who are eligible for physical exams once a year per their health insurance, whereas this provides students the opportunity of being able to have some flexibility with that. And as you can see, it talks about. A note signed by the physician allowing the student to play until he or she has a physical will be accepted for a period of no more than 14 days. So this allows a student who,  is not going to have his or her physical, which is an annual requirement, until a week or so after the athletic program begins or the practice begins. Our current practice would be to have that student you can't participate. But now this working with the school nurse, working with the athletic director, and working with our Atletic trainer, they all had been a part of this. It would be more in the student best interest without compromising the student's wellness to have that 14 day waiver. That's why it's there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It this looks like a co-mingling of two different things to me where there's the the physical to be in school and then the physical to participate in sports. And

[R8313-219] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I think what we're talking about in the third paragraph is a separate physical than the one that the nurse has in her file. So so do they have to be cleared for participation at the beginning of a school year for athletic participation?
TEXT> And that the answer is no. See, that's that's the problem. Because what we would have, we'd have students whose insurance only allows physicals after a certain number of months after the physical exam that took place a year before. Yeah. And so this provides the opportunity for students to have some flexibility and get a note from the doctor if, in fact, their physical is not going to be until next day, and that might be a quarter of the season. So we're allowing the doctor and the student without being penalized to have that physical, or at least have the acknowledgment from the physician that they can participate.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But the physical that the nurse has in her file, yes, the athletic director, except that physical.

[R8313-243] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brent Ferland: allows them to participate in physical education. Wouldn't that also kind of include athletic participation? I mean, I'm just curious if it seems that we're adding another layer of athletic participation that might. I don't I don't know, might not necessarily need to be there.
TEXT> I think the, the this is just my, my thought that high school sports there's, it's a little bit more extreme than what they would be experiencing in gym class. So I think there is a concern to make sure that that, you know, kids, if there's some some underlying issue and you know, you've you've seen it in the news once in a while where a kid had a,  you know, a heart condition and,  you know, drop dead on the football field, you know, just I think.
NEXT> Unidentified: I.

[R8313-246] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: I think that's the purpose of it.
TEXT> Yeah. That's what I was wondering if the rationale, the the reasoning behind only because it just seems like I said, it seems we're adding kind of a another layer of the bureaucracy to get kids to participate in, in athletics. And I really and I'm just, you know, from a, from a parent standpoint, you know, simplifying it would be a good even though I think back to my days of high school, you know, if I had to get a physical before I could try out for a team would be a pain in the butt. And so is that. And it just seems to me that.  But for valid medical reasons, I can see what you're saying that, you know, to cover us. I could see why you'd want to have that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Common practice. There are some districts we've learned that X don't require it annually. It could be every other year. But, you know, following the medical advice of our of

[R8313-250] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: The answer.
TEXT> To the question is yes, we a student with financial challenges is not eliminated from participating. They are provided assistance to have access to that exam.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R8313-261] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: What was the point of that? I like.
TEXT> Talking to a state representative, she said diplomatically. Sometimes things occur and you sometimes ask why?  I my hunch is that someone I, you know,  I don't even want to go there. All I know is, all I know is that I want to play by the rules. And the rules say that you need to know when the superintendent gives license for a child to stay outside of their catchment area in a school. And, this is exactly what the law now says. I want to play by the rules with the RSA, but I'm asking you, if you give me some license to make those decisions, then come back to you and say, this is what I've done, versus say, I'm sorry, you've got to stay. You've got to go to your new school, and you cannot stay in this school until I talk to the school board.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do we. Do we.

[R8313-265] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: No.
TEXT> No there isn't. But Michelle, I will tell you that my my experiences have been,  I, I'm reluctant to have a rigid timeline.  But I generally I work with the building principal, worked with the teachers, worked with the parents. There were times when the request is, I'd like my have my child remain. But it isn't justified working with our professionals. And there are times when it definitely is justified. So  I would advise that we don't have a rigid cutoff point.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: No, no, no, that's not what I asked. What I asked was do we have a set of rules that we go by?

[R8313-272] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-04-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So what you're asking us is to allow you to just make that decision and let us know after.
TEXT> The first is have the child have to move and then go back.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Because the big issue is, is that children move constantly in the city because their parents get evicted. It's a it's not it's there. It's a big issue.

[R8313-273] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: The first is have the child have to move and then go back.
TEXT> Because the big issue is, is that children move constantly in the city because their parents get evicted. It's a it's not it's there. It's a big issue.
NEXT> Unidentified: Under the.

[R8313-413] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Mary Woodman: But I.
TEXT> Don't know what the criteria is. My concern is that we're doing everything that we can to give students and kids in this town the best education that we can. That's right. And that is not is what we what that's not reflected in the outside, not even ten, 20, 30 miles from here. That isn't reflected.
NEXT> Chris Irish: What are they looking at? The right things to reflect what we're.

[R8313-436] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-04-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anything else for tonight? Do we need a. Oh, sorry.
TEXT> I got one more thing. Sorry. Yes. Bluff school had their four five K run this Saturday where they had over. I heard 150. Wow. My grandson ran for the first time in his life. It was hilarious. However, it was a really great event. They did an amazing job. I helped volunteer, so it was a lot of fun. I tried to get out and do a few things, you know, with the schools. And I encourage the rest of you guys, if you could, to get out there and do some, too. It was fun. It was a lot of fun just to meet people and talk about things and just see them kids running as cute as everything. But it was a well and it got cold and windy and they still yeah, everybody was there and it just was a really good show of everybody.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So if I may, Brian. So to Michelle's point, if we had some point people with communication, then we could have above the fold article. Hopefully with the cooperation of

[R8380-12] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Do you have a second? Do we have any edits? Seeing none. All in favor? I opposed. Thank you. Stewart represents Representatives. Report.
TEXT> So my apologies for not being here for the last couple of meetings, but I'm here now, and I'm a little sick, so he understand me. I'll try to see it better.  This was from Miss Lewis Dessner. Prior to vacation dessert students enjoy two launching activities to our vacation readathon. Does nerd welcome community readers into classrooms to share their love of reading in a special theory with Disney students. Students also participate in the book swap to ensure that they had new books to read during vacation. Students read a total of 33 or 33,219 minutes during vacation, and met their school goal of 30,000 minutes. With the support of Disney PTA. We are going Staff Appreciation Week daily treats with Doctor Seuss theme have been finding their way into our school to help recognize our amazing staff members. Last week, our fourth and fifth grade students participated in the Bicycle Safety's Emily, presented by the Bike Walk Alliance of New Hampshire. And then, I have another one from Doctor Barry at Stevens. The read 180 program is up and running. This is being rolled out with plans for full implementation starting in the fall. This is a program focusing on students with English language arts skills deficits, with the goals of bringing all students up to reading levels and beyond.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: The. That's how many Stevens and Stevens High School and age scholars will be attending a Fisher Cats game celebration on May 5th, and a luncheon in their honor at

[R8380-15] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: students, schools and faculty and is an honor to represent S and NH in the prestigious event. SAS has had many skills, MH, CTE students and competitions over the years and has placed as high as third at the USA international competitions in the past.
TEXT> Donations should be sent to Bev. Janelle  as R v RTC 111 South Street, Claremont, Hampshire. Please make checks playable to Claremont School District with Jake Lapointe skills Conference and the memo line. The organization has Martha mackie from Edward Jones coming to see events to talk with students about investments in their final unit is a budget project that attempts to create a real world situation for which they must budget for the life they expect to be living in a future years. This fits with our core values, statements and critical thinking and real world experiences. On Saturday, May 7th, the band choir music theater class will be competing in festivals of music in Holyoke. Calculus students are doing very well with the applications of engineering problems, such as maximizing the surface areas and volumes of storage tanks and packages. They are also formulating their own solutions strategies for related rate problems by taking simple algebra and area and volume formulas, and applying calculus methods to find velocities and rates of change of fluids.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: These fluids include gases, liquids, and granular solids. In today's Valley News, there is an article on the Flow of History project, which two of our Stevens teachers are heavily

[R8380-47] Sarah Deline | Public commenter, parent of student Nate (self-identified; ASR 'Sarah  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Would it be appropriate if if, Oh. Excuse me. I didn't see. You coming up. Please. Right ahead. Nope. Please go ahead.
TEXT> So  I'm Sarah Deline. I'm Nate's mom, and I'm here to support him because he is an excellent student. He is on the honor society, and he has been since freshman year. He currently holds a job at the community center. He has more than 250 community service hours. He took driver's ed during that study hall last semester. So he doesn't have any free time. And I want to make sure that the board understands the the wait that is going on here, because Nate is an excellent student. He is very self-motivated and self-driven. He's captain of the flag squad. He's on track. There are no holes in his curriculum and he has a goal. He wants to go into aerospace engineering. We went down to NASA and had a tour. He's visited colleges already as a junior because he knows where he wants to go. And in order to get there, he has a handful of classes that he wants to take to give him the best foot forward. He only needs to take one class to have enough credits to graduate. But that's not his goal. He doesn't want to just slide by.
NEXT> Sarah Deline: He wants to go out with with flames. And I find it extremely frustrating as a parent to get a call from his school counselor today to say, Will I

[R8380-48] Sarah Deline | Public commenter, parent of student Nate (self-identified; ASR 'Sarah  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Sarah Deline: get there, he has a handful of classes that he wants to take to give him the best foot forward. He only needs to take one class to have enough credits to graduate. But that's not his goal. He doesn't want to just slide by.
TEXT> He wants to go out with with flames. And I find it extremely frustrating as a parent to get a call from his school counselor today to say, Will I talk to Nate about his, classes for next year? And he's kind of frustrated because he didn't get what he wanted. I said, okay, well, I think that he spoke to you early in the year. She said, yeah, he came in in the fall and told me what he wanted for classes, but they're full. So how is it that a student can look this far ahead to plan ahead? To talk with the teachers. To talk with his guidance counselors and be denied the classes that he wants? I don't I don't know how else to support him than to be here and show you that we have successful students at Stevens. They are going places. They are learning things, and I it's unfortunate that we're putting a block schedule. This a be schedule in place to pick up all of the stragglers. But at the same time,  we're hurting these stellar students. I would like the schedule to be looked at. Does anybody have any questions for me?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We're going to be having a conversation later. Okay.

[R8380-53] Andy | Public commenter, Stevens High School senior (self-identified first na | 2016-05-04
PREV> Andy: myself with, online classes, which was the alternative I was given, which is great if you want to do something independently. And it's something you want to focus on outside of school, but it also goes into a lot of your free time as well.
TEXT> So it was not something I wanted to add on top of my schedule. And then another thing I found that I really didn't like was I wasn't able to take as many electives. And I'm finding that talking to teachers going into next year, they're dropping even more electives because students can't fit them into their schedule because of these  priorities. Like they have to take a math class instead of an English class like Shakespeare, that they would love to try something new. But since  math is year long and in this one block, they can't switch it up. And then going along with the math thing, I find math is one of those things where you kind of need every day, or else the teachers ending up retouching what you learned. You know what to say Wednesday. So they're reaching what they learned Monday because students are just it's been a day. You've had a whole separate amount of classes, and then you've gone back to the next day and it's like, okay, who's done their homework? And it's like, what did we do on Monday? So you, you find yourself re teaching the students,  which I don't think is necessarily a bad thing.
NEXT> Andy: I find that it's been in the students, interest to go through and, you know, work on the homework a bit one night and then also do it the next

[R8380-54] Andy | Public commenter, Stevens High School senior (self-identified first na | 2016-05-04
PREV> Andy: classes, and then you've gone back to the next day and it's like, okay, who's done their homework? And it's like, what did we do on Monday? So you, you find yourself re teaching the students, which I don't think is necessarily a bad thing.
TEXT> I find that it's been in the students,  interest to go through and, you know, work on the homework a bit one night and then also do it the next night. So you're not just doing that group of it one night and then forgetting it because you're doing the next group next night. So that goes into the part where I think it's a great idea because it teaches students time management. Like if you have this chunk of classes to get work done for, you know, get it a little bit done this day, if you have a project sometimes that will carry into multiple days. But starting out as a freshman, I think it's a great idea to have to handle this amount of classes. And, you know, two days because you have to learn. You know what? What do I really need to get done? You know what times when is this do when is it not? Or you know what do I have a little more time to work on? Which is then sometimes a negative thing. Because then you are prioritize this with me. I found that I'm also putting my apps on top, and then their classes, like I am taking Shakespeare right now, which I'd love to do all the work for, but sometimes I just can't fit it in.
NEXT> Andy: Under studying for Oppo's history or writing an essay for AP lit. And then I'm just spreading myself so thin I'm not able to put in all the effort for

[R8380-71] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: It off.
TEXT> Oh, turning it on is a really good thing to do. Yes. Thank you. It's good to have friends and helpers. It takes a village in this case to turn this on. So what is it? So this is just a quick review. I know that you on the school board are probably familiar with this, so please bear with me. Some of this is for the community at large, who we hope will be watching and will want to understand this. So it is a survey. It's completed by every other year. There are high school and middle school versions. They are offered to randomly selected schools and classes throughout the nation and it is voluntary. Students do not need to participate. They are asked to get parental consent in order to participate. So I think that's a really important point. And it is funded both by the feds and the state. So the New Hampshire Department of Education, underwrites a good deal of this work. Okay. That didn't work at the computer. I'm done.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: If you.

[R8380-77] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So why thank you.  So  why do it? Why would you want to go through this process at all? There are a couple of good reasons. One, it starts the conversation, so it gets people thinking about and talking about making healthy choices. It increases the awareness in the community and among a school staff  of the behaviors that are underlying important health problems. It assesses or allows us to assess how student behaviors may change over time, because this has been going on since 1990. So there's data from all across the nation, from cities, from rural locations that you can use comparatively as well as our own data. It allows you then to plan and evaluate your programs and your policies and teaching strategies, and to get a sense of where we stand in our community versus others here in our state and in our region. So how does it work? These students are faced with about 20 pages. They have anywhere from 90 to 100 or so questions on the high school version. The middle school version is a little bit shorter. It takes approximately 45 minutes, including all the instructions in the distribution of materials, and they are bubbling just as they would with any of the other standardized tests that you're familiar with.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: It is still a print process. It is not yet available online. It is completely anonymous. There are no names on students, surveys. That's to encourage them to be brutally

[R8380-78] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: high school version. The middle school version is a little bit shorter. It takes approximately 45 minutes, including all the instructions in the distribution of materials, and they are bubbling just as they would with any of the other standardized tests that you're familiar with.
TEXT> It is still a print process. It is not yet available online. It is completely anonymous. There are no names on students, surveys. That's to encourage them to be brutally honest. It also means that when you get results, they are aggregate. You do not see any individual responses at all. And I think that's really important. So what are the questions about. Well they're looking for information on the categories that represent the largest challenges to adolescent health. So there are six different categories. And questions are slotted into these categories. One is behaviors that result in injuries. Another is sexual behaviors.  Another is tobacco use. Another is alcohol and drug use, dietary behavior and physical activity. And I can give you a couple of examples of those. So for example if we're talking about safety behaviors  how often do you wear a seatbelt when you're riding in a car driven by someone else that contributes to your safety? Or alternatively, if you don't do it, may contribute to injury. During the past 12 months, how many times were you in a physical fight?  And  have you ever used an E vapor product?
NEXT> Lisa Draper: And most of these questions first, ask students to indicate whether or not they have experience with a particular behavior behavior, and then they dig a little deeper and ask

[R8380-80] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: to begin with was on sexual behavior. There were reasons we chose it. And so I wanted to make sure that you're aware of them. The first is the risk of HIV infection, which many of us thought was no longer such a big deal.
TEXT> But if you've been listening to what's been going on in rural parts of Indiana, for example, the opioid crisis has led to a resurgence  of HIV in a number of different communities. It's a problem. A high rate of teen pregnancies has dogged our particular region for a long time. An increased number of sexually transmitted infections and real concerns among both teachers, students, not both. All teachers, students and parents  about coercion taking place around sexual behavior, about dating, violence and sexual assault. Any questions before I go? Okay, so the risk of HIV, this is a quick reminder from health class HIV spreads through sexual contact or by sharing needles or syringes. A pregnant woman can pass it to her child during pregnancy, during birth, or afterward by breastfeeding. Once infected, anybody can transmit the virus. Anyone else here in New Hampshire, there's an alarming statistic. And that is between 2010 and 2014, 33% of the cases who were diagnosed with HIV were concurrently diagnosed with Aids. Usually, the progression from HIV to Aids is many years long. This means that these people had been infected for quite a long time without receiving treatment, and without being able to protect their partners.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: So that's a concern to us. Early diagnosis is key. It's possible through a very simple test. And that can minimize the damage to the immune system and keep people

[R8380-84] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: ages of 12 and 17. So moving. Back okay, so what do the surveys show us? Well, first let's start with what they tell us on the national level, because I think that gives you some context and the ability to put things in perspective.
TEXT> So nationally, we know that not all teenagers are abstinent.  About 47% of all high school students across the United States report that they've had sexual intercourse. And you can see roughly the figures. And as you might expect, with time, that figure goes up till we reach 12th graders, where almost two thirds of 12th graders are saying they have already been sexually active. The figure is slightly higher for students who identify as lesbian, gay or bisexual. Teenagers are at risk when they are not abstaining because they aren't using condoms to protect themselves from STI or pregnancy. So if you look, 59% of currently sexually active students nationwide said they used a condom the last time, and that's thrilling. That's good news. But the inverse is everyone can do the math. More than 40% didn't, and that means they are at risk of the STIs we just talked about and unplanned pregnancies. So now let's look at the local picture. And what I've done here is to try and show you what's true for New Hampshire, and then what's true for Stephens High School, based on the latest,  wire BS results.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: So remember, it's taken biennially. So these have been updated to reflect the 2015 results that we just received this winter. Kids usually take them in the winter or the

[R8380-86] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: use any form of contraception, specifically birth control. The last time they had sex. So birth control pills are still the most common choice teens make, though they are not the best choice for many teens, and the comparable figure at Stephens is slightly higher.
TEXT> Just shy of 40% of New Hampshire students, as I said, did not use a condom the last time they had sex. So that's lower than nationwide, but it's still not what we'd like to see. And that figure is closer to 50% at Stephens. These figures, when I to the viewing audience for their being small, I'm assuming that the whole presentation will be posted on the school website so you can go back and see them closely. But we tried to pack a lot into our slides. So this is looking at coercion and consent. We, know that substances and sex get mixed a lot. Certainly they get mixed a lot. In the adult world. There are commercials, there are films. There are all sorts of things that combine those two activities. And so,  not surprisingly, you can see the figure for New Hampshire as a whole. And then you can see the figure for all of Sullivan County grade nine students. So not just Stevens, but all of Sullivan County. You can then see how many students or what percent of students say they've actually experienced unwanted sex,  not because they drank or used a substance, but because their partner did.  And again, that figure is higher for us  than for  some others.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: If you look at being physically forced to have sex that constitutes rate, so physically forced to have sex, we're seeing a percentage of students at Stevens who say that's

[R8380-87] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: Sullivan County. You can then see how many students or what percent of students say they've actually experienced unwanted sex, not because they drank or used a substance, but because their partner did. And again, that figure is higher for us than for some others.
TEXT> If you look at being physically forced to have sex  that constitutes rate, so physically forced to have sex, we're seeing a percentage of students at Stevens who say that's happened to them, and it's  about the same as other students across New Hampshire. So we're in the same place. Their overall experience of physical dating violence, which we talked about, is running about 10%. And Stevens, that's in it's very consistent with the national figure. It is higher than what's true elsewhere in New Hampshire. And the last one is sexual dating violence. And you can see that across New Hampshire, it's at a little less than 12%. Here it's at about 15%. So,  one other thing. Sexual orientation puts students at risk frequently for bullying. And bullying is then associated with lots of other risks. So risks of depression in terms of mental health, risks of suicide attempts, all sorts of things. So for that reason, The  Wire tries to capture students orientation. 90% of New Hampshire students overall identify themselves as heterosexual. At Stevens, that figures a little lower. It's 88%.  And then it shows you the percentage of students overall who have actually had contact with partners of both sexes.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: And that's a little bit lower, at Stevens. So then the question comes, so what do we do with all this stuff? Right. So we've been trying to use this

[R8380-89] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: to be aligned with our study groups recommendations, the curriculum that we're looking at for the elementary level and to comply with national standards because there are national standards of best practices. I believe you receive those in your advanced packet at the elementary school.
TEXT> The committee has actually settled on a curriculum to recommend to the Curriculum Council. We chosen, or were recommending that the Curriculum Council approved the Great Body Shop, and that would be phased in next year pending the approval from the Curriculum Council and the cabinet. Implementing this particular comprehensive health program would been we will start using grade appropriate strategies every month, starting in kindergarten, to talk with students about these topics. So just so you know, these are a whole range of topics. It is not just sexual topics. It is preventing injury and personal safety, nutrition, functions of the body, growth and development. The reason it's so important to start sooner is we're getting to students too late. We can't change a pattern. We start building a foundation of something different. So we are very excited to have found a curriculum that we feel is respectful of  all these issues and age appropriate at every grade level. The next steps that in order for that to come to fruition,  at the elementary level, it will need to move through the Curriculum Council. It will need professional development. So staff members will be designated to work with the new curriculum and will need to train them.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: At the middle school level. I said, we're working on that curriculum right now and at the high school level. So now I've reversed things that I'm going in the

[R8380-102] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I was curious about is why are the schools, Not included?
TEXT> Because the, the survey is administered in a school building. Were homeschooled students eager to participate, just as they often participate in athletic activities and other things they could join in. But across the nation, it is in ministered in a public school setting. And so if you're not in the public school setting on the day on which it is administered, you're not there.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And,

[R8380-108] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And unable to participate. What's stopping those children?
TEXT> Their parents might not have given them consent. So it is. Remember, it's voluntary and it requires parental consent. So if I don't want my, student to be asked questions about any of these behaviors,  then I withhold the consent and they do not take part in the survey. So it is in this case, it is an opt in.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The do we know the numbers of of children that have had or been required to opt out or.

[R8380-109] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: it requires parental consent. So if I don't want my, student to be asked questions about any of these behaviors, then I withhold the consent and they do not take part in the survey. So it is in this case, it is an opt in.
TEXT> The do we know the numbers of of children that have had or been required to opt out or.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: We don't necessarily know that number. I can give you the numbers of students who actually took the survey in 2015. So and you can sort of figure it out,

[R8380-110] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: The do we know the numbers of of children that have had or been required to opt out or.
TEXT> We don't necessarily know that number. I can give you the numbers of students who actually took the survey in 2015.  So and you can sort of figure it out, I don't know whether it's because of permission or because they were absent or because they were doing something else that day. But we got 73% of Stevens students to respond in 2015. So  of 574 students, I believe, that were enrolled at that time, we had 417 participate. So 186 young women, 228 young men. And I have the breakout, in terms of their ages and their grades, if you need to know.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Is there.

[R8380-119] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by curriculum- | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Private school community.
TEXT> And that does not. Right. Homeschool does not include private school. There are additional students in private school.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: And that's why the CDC puts all these caveats on these numbers that it is not a completely random survey. It's a random survey of public high school students.

[R8380-120] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: And that does not. Right. Homeschool does not include private school. There are additional students in private school.
TEXT> And that's why the CDC puts all these caveats on these numbers that it is not a completely random survey. It's a random survey of public high school students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is there any sense of.

[R8380-126] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Something that's not right. But I guess the numbers be reflective.
TEXT> Totally. And if someone. Wanted to. To bring homeschoolers. Into. Stephens, I'm sure we. Can try and accommodate them, their private school students, we would have to pay for the administration of the survey in their settings. So it's funded. Remember  at for public school student participation. So I'm not sure how that would work. We could always go back and ask, but for 2046 years or whatever 26 years, this is how they've done it. We didn't decide it. We're just taking advantage of their data. Frank. I'm sorry. I just wanted to make sure Michelle had the chance to finish.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Is there a formula for determining how honest kids are with this? Well.

[R8380-127] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: always go back and ask, but for 2046 years or whatever 26 years, this is how they've done it. We didn't decide it. We're just taking advantage of their data. Frank. I'm sorry. I just wanted to make sure Michelle had the chance to finish.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there a formula for determining how honest kids are with this? Well.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: Yeah, it is. Anonymous. Obviously, kids might choose to bubble. Weirdly, the motivation for that would be unclear whether they're bubbling, that they don't do behaviors or that they do

[R8380-128] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Is there a formula for determining how honest kids are with this? Well.
TEXT> Yeah, it is. Anonymous. Obviously, kids might choose to bubble. Weirdly, the motivation for that would be unclear whether they're bubbling, that they don't do behaviors or that they do do behaviors. So I can't really speak to that. But there's a consistency in the data from state to state and from region to region. And my friend here may want to respond.
NEXT> Dennis McNichol: Evening, everybody. It's great to see everyone once again. From from my understanding of the why study. There they will go through the information and if there are conflicting answers

[R8380-131] Dennis McNichol | Youth Risk Behavior Study Group member, regional public health (uncert | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: The random butler get. You know, if. No, I never did this. Yes, I did it 17 times last month. Yeah. That's a that's an entry that doesn't.
TEXT> So there are there are a few ways to kind of make, you know to safe check that we're getting accurate information. In terms of within a specific category, how how a student would answer.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: And again, they are remarkably consistent, you know, in terms of the national trend and the regional trend and our, our own school.

[R8380-135] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brent Ferland: you could track certain percentages that were just they made no sense. So so my question would be who else is using? What else is this data being used for? From policy levels, more of just kind of a snapshot type thing. And then use.
TEXT> And remember that the student body surveyed every year is different. It's not a follow the child process.  If you.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Have.

[R8380-184] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: And thank you all, because you've given us a lot of your time and I know it can get late here.
TEXT> Thank you for thanks for coming and presenting this. I guess I'd just like to leave with this. There were there were other groups involved. We're dealing with information programs for just the district. As we progress, are they going to be opportunities for  children if they find the need to be able to connect outside of the district with some of these resources?
NEXT> Lisa Draper: I would leave. That to be answered by you all rather than me. I know that I will continue to offer programing. Assuming we get funding for then we will

[R8380-190] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Good one. Follow up on on, that invitation. So how have we how have we invited like in what way is like examples of like the way that we're inviting the community. Certainly. And some of the other.
TEXT> Thank you, thank you. Patrick great question. I sent out around 1900 invitations electronically to our parents,  also utilizing the media. I didn't have front page ads, but the word got out. The word got out what we were doing, and we were inviting residents to participate to sign up. And we didn't turn anyone away. So, that's how we've done it. And the door is still open. By the way, this is not a closed shop. We we we need the community to be a part of this effort. And any president who's invested a staff member resident doesn't even have a child in our school district.  If they're invested in being a part of this. We welcome it.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I did. And I appreciate that that that information, I was only and I think just speaking with this I would like I, I, I understand I've kind of

[R8380-209] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I looked into the English language arts portion of that, I think I've identified a pattern. We have problems with writing. We have problems with writing. Now, that was one person's view. But I remember another view was a former student, top of her class.
TEXT> I think it was a class of 2008, 2007. She went to Saint Paul's as a as a junior, very bright girl, received a lot of awards. She said to me in a private conversation when I was at Saint Paul's as a junior, I had a lot of trouble competing against my peers in writing. I thought it was really on my game. But she said I had a lot of trouble in comparison to, again, another person's view. But as I said, when I arrived here, I hit the ground learning and part of it was my entry plan. Am I entry plan was basically what's going on. I came up here with several years of experience, but I did not hit the ground running. I hit the ground learning and and start to gather information. Not to judge, not to rush to judgment, but to basically identify where am I? And what's going on. And part of that was to ask a lot of open ended questions of parents, of students, of faculty in Cornish, unity in Claremont. But for  Claremont, these are some of the major findings, some concerns.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It's critical that we attract excellent teachers and administrators. Now, I didn't ask the question. Do you think teachers and administrators were important? I asked open ended questions and there

[R8380-212] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: what what it means, but can you give me some data? So I asked a staff member, can you give me? I'm hearing about lack of results. Can you give me information? And this is what I learned and I've showed this to you before.
TEXT> The class of 20 1112, my first year. This is. These are the percent of students who were failing. Now, am I using this? Am I using this to judge, to point fingers at staff members? I'm not. But we need to take a look at what's going on. And I showed this to the faculty in August of 2012 and I said, help me understand this, help me understand where we are. And if we add these together combined, that's your percentage. So that troubled me. But that was 2012  and I knew I needed to learn more.  Now I want to talk about the Napoleonic. Linda Beaulieu is a former English language art teacher at Stevens High School and Linda Beaulieu. She taught for three decades, and she died tragically in February 2013 while she was on vacation. I used to talk with her 2 or 3 times in her room, and she would talk about her portfolios of students. One of her colleagues said. The saddest thing is the number of kids who will not get to work with her. She was not only dedicated, but she wouldn't accept mediocrity. And she showed me portfolios of students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And their writing and what the writing looked like in the early part of the course and what the writing was looking like afterwards. She was very focused, would never

[R8380-214] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: a major impact on our students. In 20 1314. As I began my my third year, we started to identify and did essential skills, non-negotiable skills in math and in writing. For K to five, we need to know what do we need to clarify?
TEXT> What do we want students know and be able to do? And in the perfect world, those students grade after grade will acquire that. And part of that was writing and part of that was mathematics skills. Because a 10th grade math algebra teacher at Stevens High School my second year said to me, you know, more than half my students don't know the multiplication tables. Now that's information, that data. And so part of that was driving just exactly this, the importance of being sure that students acquire certain skills and mathematics, reading and writing. Now in 20 1314, Frank Sprague, last year as principal, there had been a great deal of work by Stevens High School, visiting Convent High School to study their intervention block, a midday opportunity for students to seek extra help. And the goal was to replace the 2 to 230 extra help block, if you will, where teachers were available. Students would leave at two and teachers were available to help. But a lot of students weren't taking access to this. The game plan was 1314 were going to phase it in and 1415 full implementation. But  in May and this, this started to have me a little more aware about how things are done or how things have been done.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The group of teachers got together and they voted and they voted by majority not to do it. And so it fell apart. And I'm saying to myself, wait a

[R8380-216] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: simply this. Pat, I'd like you to answer a question. Will you please ask colleagues of yours to volunteer to serve on a scheduling committee and just answer this question? Is the current schedule? The 4x4 the block schedule meeting the needs of all students.
TEXT> And I said to her,  I am not telling you I have an expected outcome. And so she started the process. And this is what the committee found. These are Stevens High School faculty. And this was reported to the high school faculty and the community throughout the fall of 2014. The academic gap in core disciplines exists. Angelica was talking about this, that there can be a gap of time, of a month or a year, and in this case, we learned up to a year and a half between a core academic subjects, such as an English or  or  mathematics or science. Students have less time to grasp the curriculum. That was another finding. Failure rates are high and too many have few credits going into their junior and senior year. Another was the 85 minute blocks allow teachers more time to go in depth. That's true,  but often about a third of the class time used for homework or downtime. That was one of the findings coming from the faculty. AP classes suffer since they don't match with the test time in May. If you have an AP class in the fall and several months later, you have the test without having mandatory four years of English and Mass. Seniors are often left with just elected, and it would not be uncommon for a senior to have very few core, and most of the electives doesn't provide student support to do well in SATs college essay writing.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Now, that doesn't mean every single student fits that description, but there was a pattern here. The current schedule doesn't provide enough flexibility for students to access the tech center.

[R8380-217] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: mandatory four years of English and Mass. Seniors are often left with just elected, and it would not be uncommon for a senior to have very few core, and most of the electives doesn't provide student support to do well in SATs college essay writing.
TEXT> Now, that doesn't mean every single student fits that description, but there was a pattern here. The current schedule doesn't provide enough flexibility for students to access the tech center. And finally, having extra help at the end of the day feels punitive to some students. The majority don't attend. So these are some of the findings. I want to talk to you about another source of information that's high school students going back several years. And Alan Dameron in 2003, took some notes about what students said in response to these two questions. I found those and I've included them. 2003 I arrived here in 2011. My first opportunity to listen to students was 2012. What did not go well or could have been better?  These are their responses 2014. These are their responses 2015. These are their responses. Do you see a pattern now? Am I? Shame or being disrespectful to our teachers? By doing this no, I'm showing data. I'm showing data. And if I'm afraid that I'm going to get somebody upset by showing this data, that I really shouldn't be in this position because I have to be forthcoming and honest with this information. Junior year, harder than senior year need to be reversed. Ask students to do more. Year long courses are good for retention. This comes from students. 2003 13 years ago.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So the one thing that we haven't done that I want to start doing in June, actually it's going to be made this month, is to get a more wide

[R8380-222] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: The union wanted 30%. So what? Brian Rapp was quoted in the paper, we considered that to be to our vantage, because 8% is a lot less than 30%. And also the arbitrator says change the block schedule, go back to the 4x4 for 1617.
TEXT> Now, in last month, the Sri had a press release and when the press release was released and I read it, I said, you know, I'm obligated to share with the community my view of this. I'm not at war with the Union. They are my colleagues, but I disagree with their position. The article arbitrator rules in favor of SRE over block scheduling. Again, this is what the press release said. I've underlined a phrase when the teachers at the high school twice voted against the change in schedule. The law provides the school board that authority. Does the law provide a group of dedicated educators to decide what's going to happen in the district? It doesn't. But if that's been the past practice here and I in my position, I want to work with the Sri representing the school board. But we need to stop the practice that a small group controls the entire district, and the school board has to step aside. Their position was the district could have reverted back to the old schedule in June. Frank Sprague will tell you a a schedule of students takes months and months to develop gathering information. In June, you couldn't suddenly stop and take all the information and go from an A, B schedule to a block. You're talking apples and grapefruit. The one thing that concerning here.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Is this we worked for a month and a half with the union to try to resolve this. The impression of the press release was we just barreled ahead like

[R8380-224] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: have issues to address. We have needs. We need to not turn everything upside down, but we need to address and correct certain issues that we've been talking about tonight, not wait until a new contract and then bargain. We need to address that now.
TEXT> It is the school board's authority and right legally to do that. But we have a disagreement with our union colleagues who saying no, unless we approve it, you can't do it. So the arbitrator is ruling basically boiled down to this, the 8% increase represents $153,000, or about $4,600 per 33 teachers. To quote Brian's rap, though,  the 30% would have been over half $1 million. So we're pleased about that. The trader wanted to have the schedule changed. The board is not returning to the form of 4x4 block schedule for the reasons that I have presented tonight. We may end up in the Public Employee Labor Relations Board. We may even go further, but the stakes are too high. Now I know and listening to my my fellow, my my fellow student, the fine gentleman, I'm sure that the a B schedule doesn't fit everyone's needs. And I know that Pat Berry, working with others, has tried to accommodate that. Just talk about that so that I regret. I do regret that, but for the reason previously stated, I, as a superintendent of schools, can't stand in front of you in the community and pretend. And I can't say, well, maybe it'll get better 15 years later. No. So that's where we are and we're going forward. The arbitrator decision. The school board was not being a rogue.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: They were saying the arbitrator made a mistake. The arbitrator did not acknowledge state statute. Change is inevitable. I'm not an advocate of change unless there's a reason. Do you

[R8380-231] Pam | Rogue Robots 4-H leader (self-identified first name only) | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Communication with. That's okay. We would like. Not necessarily.
TEXT> Or I can or I can just click to I think I will see a greeting while they're finishing getting their laptops set up. I'm Pam and we are from the rogue robots of four H. And one of the projects the students can choose to be involved in is called C perch. C perch is a Stem project that is available to students from elementary school age up through high school age, and we are able to also go to a competition down at you. And. It's a regional competition, and we had three rogue robot teams go down to about six weeks ago, and our high school team won second overall down at that competition, which gave them the opportunity to go down to Louisiana University, Baton Rouge. And we are going there on May 21st is the competition. There are two underwater challenges for the robots. One remains the same every year, and that is a challenge in which the rove it's not really a robot, it's a remotely operated vehicle, and it has to go through  the hoops underwater. The hoops are at different angles  and the ROV has to go through and come back. It is on a tether with a  control box. The second challenge changes each year. This year that challenge was titled orbs. It is a cluster of towers. Who's got the tower?
NEXT> Pam: The cluster of towers of varying diameters which have different orbs or falls, wiffle balls of varying sizes, and golf balls, and their sea perch. There, Rove has to activate

[R8380-244] Andrew | Student, Rogue Robots 4-H SeaPerch team (introduced [459]) | 2016-05-04
PREV> Andrew: creative and innovative solutions to be come up with. As a team. We had a new concept of center of buoyancy over center of mass, resented to us by one of our mentors, and we all picked it up and we could find ways to.
TEXT> Figure out problems around, all these challenges that were being thrown at us. The final one we have is adapting to different personalities, communication styles on our team. Communication is essential to any team. We found it difficult. We found that we had to have the more talkative people on our team step out to let the less talkative kids, the more shy kids on the team to say, say what they had to say  because they could. They had some good ideas, but they just didn't step in and say anything. Thank you for your time and we're going to open up to some questions if you have any.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How's the power to see a blue cable there is that that's power plus also transmitting computer signals.

[R8380-265] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Good luck. Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> This. This project was brought to Maple Ave. The fifth graders did it, and I was fortunate enough to take part. I helped just help help the students out. And it's it's a great project because you see kids that may be a little bit afraid to be dealing with some of the technical stuff that basically it's put in front of them and they they're challenged and it gets them out of their comfort zone and they work on it. And it was it was great to be able to work with the students for, you know, a couple of weeks and watch them get more comfortable. And it's, it's it's a really cool process. So in the next coming years, you're going to have kids that have already had experience, and they'll be able to learn off what you guys have accomplished. I like the orange, by the way.
NEXT> Allison: Thank you.

[R8380-279] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: evolution, if you will, from 2011 to 2015. And Pat Berry, principal of Stevens High School, is now going to be talking about the schedule and and other data. That is part of where we are and where we're going and why. Thank you. Pat.
TEXT> Thank you. So what you've got in your hands are two different documents. And one is is an FYI. And it it's not related specifically to the schedule, but I wanted to share it with you because I think it's a piece of what Stevens High School offers that is outside the and what what it says. Online courses completed by Stevens High Schools students 1415 and 1516. And so this is a part of what we offer outside of the program of studies and something that we don't advertise externally necessarily, or even that the school board would be aware of, that 33 credits were awarded last year, and we're on target to award the same number this year through VLS or Odyssey, where courses and students take these courses for a variety of reasons. A because, like Nate, they're in a situation where they can't fit what they want into their schedule because of conflicts or because we just don't offer it. And so when you look at Law and Order, Introduction to Legal Studies Latin one, Latin three, e art, intro to psychology, astronomy,  etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. It shows the way in which we've broadened what we can offer to students through electronic courses.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And it's a way to supplement student schedules. But it's an aside and I but I was and I want to thank Paul Silva, who oversees this program and the

[R8380-280] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: offer it. And so when you look at Law and Order, Introduction to Legal Studies Latin one, Latin three, e art, intro to psychology, astronomy, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. It shows the way in which we've broadened what we can offer to students through electronic courses.
TEXT> And it's a way to supplement student schedules. But it's an aside and I but I was and I want to thank Paul Silva, who oversees this program and the V and Odyssey, where at Stevens, which is separate from the Owls program. I think it's important for the board to know that students have access to this kind of coursework. The packet and Doctor Goodwin was talking about data, and we talked about the evolution of how did we we come to looking at an A, B schedule versus other schedules. And I know a number of the board members weren't around for those initial conversations. But these top three sheets are, as you can see, data from the New Hampshire Department of Education based on 1314 school year. And what I've compared here and what is in the packet are the schedules of eight schools who have either A, B or rotating A through G schedules. So these schools are. Some of them are vastly different to us in socioeconomic makeup like Bo. But they're relatively within the ballpark of the kind of school that they are as far as number of enrollment, etc.. And regardless of the socioeconomic differences that we may have with a bow per se, what we were looking for were what what are we not being  successful at?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And what schools are successful in those areas, and what schedule do they have? Because maybe that schedule contributes in part to their success. So for the purpose of this

[R8380-281] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: ballpark of the kind of school that they are as far as number of enrollment, etc.. And regardless of the socioeconomic differences that we may have with a bow per se, what we were looking for were what what are we not being successful at?
TEXT> And what schools are successful in those areas, and what schedule do they have? Because maybe that schedule contributes in part to their success. So for the purpose of this comparison, we looked at Bedford, Campbell, Bo, Plymouth, Epping, Monadnock, Sanborn and Kennett. And when you go to the Doe site, there is some pretty startling data.  And it's that data that moved us to say, in answer to Doctor Goodwin's question, that the 4x4 was not meeting the needs in these areas. So when you look at grade 11, these are the kneecap scores, grade 11 reading, math and writing top page. And you go from Bedford with a 92% rate in grade 11 reading. And of all nine schools in this cohort, we are at the bottom at 61%. Same thing, top of the top at 66, 48, 51, 40 all the way down. Where are we in math? 18%. And so you can see these comparative scores  and it is not it's showing that we have a lot of room for improvement in these areas. Number of students enrolled in AP classes. Again, we have those numbers have increased significantly since 1314. But 178 in Bedford. Yeah, they've got a population of 1400s.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We have to take that into account 12.6%. So when you're looking even at the percentages, we're down at 11.1. So these were all factors that the committee looked at

[R8380-283] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: but some of them are true a B schedules. Some you'll see, for instance, looking at because I just want you to know what that means when you look at Bedford High School and you'll see handwritten in there, they have red and silver days.
TEXT> That's their way of saying an a, B day. They just call them red and silver days. And Adnoc has a true a B  as well. And Sanborn is not. And you'll see that some of these a B schools have implemented one day like a Monday where they have all eight classes meet every Monday. And I'd love to be able to do that. What prevents us from doing that, which also prevents us from having that rotational schedule A through G is the tech center. So that also limited a number of our choices, because we had to also align with what the tech centers needs and being able to send students to Newport and vice versa. We couldn't have something that had that rotational schedule. So there's a number of things that even now, as we look and say, what could be done better, what could we tweak, where could we go from here? Still were limited because of the way we're connected with the tech center. So, you know, that's kind of the overall and  this was the compelling data  that led us to say.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And, and do these reflect just the schedule? No, no, no set of data is is due to one indicator. There's a lot of things that go into these numbers,

[R8380-285] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: can be assessed after one year, certainly not after six months, that 3 to 4 years of seeing one complete high school cohort go through is really what's needed to be able to longitudinally say, this is what we can say is affected by schedule.
TEXT> This is what we can say is affected by teaching staff,  by poverty, by this, by that. So it's very early in the game. It's very premature to say what is working, what isn't working. And I said to Nate before he left, I said, come see me tomorrow because yeah, we have right now the schedule was just built for next year. And they we use a consultant in Keene, and all the schools go there and they spend a day building their schedule on power school. And basically you throw all your courses in and the system says, this is where AP chemistry has to land in order to maximize the number of students who can take it. This is where health needs to land. This is where  we pre, set some things. One of the things that we preset in the 1617 school year that's different is where band and chorus lie  this year working with with our, our music teacher we put it band and choir both 75 minute blocks that in time proved that was too much time. And so what we did for the coming year, using that feedback, is to say, let's put them where they used to be, back to back around the lunch period, third block, so that each one is 45 minutes, basically a skinny every day.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's a better way of delivering choir band curriculum. So we'll see some benefits from that. And so it's the living of it. It's the living of it and the

[R8380-286] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: time. And so what we did for the coming year, using that feedback, is to say, let's put them where they used to be, back to back around the lunch period, third block, so that each one is 45 minutes, basically a skinny every day.
TEXT> That's a better way of delivering choir band curriculum. So we'll see some benefits from that. And so it's the living of it. It's the living of it and the learning from it. Last year when we implemented this, we said, let's go at algebra one every other day and have a true a B schedule. Feedback from the math department is not enough time. So what you see in this year's program of study is moving forward is algebra one every day, all year long for two credits. What did we do in a 4x4? We had algebra one A for a semester for a credit and algebra one B for a semester for one credit. Kids were getting two semesters of algebra for two credits. We're back to that again because we understand that's the amount of time that kids need for that basic algebra. You heard Nate talk about the semester courses in math that he's taking, and those are those upper level classes, pre-calculus.  He's able to take that many courses until he was able to take as many math courses in her four years as she's been able to do, because we made the decision early on, even though we're going to win a B,  we're going to keep those upper level math classes every day for a semester.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So those math oriented students can get more than four years of math into their four years at Stevens. So, you know, those are the kinds of tweaks and adjustments

[R8380-287] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: to take as many math courses in her four years as she's been able to do, because we made the decision early on, even though we're going to win a B, we're going to keep those upper level math classes every day for a semester.
TEXT> So those math oriented students can get more than four years of math into their four years at Stevens. So, you know, those are the kinds of tweaks and adjustments that as we get the feedback from students, as we see what works and doesn't work by discipline, by department, by student, and we make those adjustments. And that is my hope. You know, watching these robotics kids and talking about working as a team, it what a great life lesson to be goal oriented, but solution oriented to focus on what is the solution, how do we take what we have and make it better? And that's what we've gone into this saying, this is not a one stop shop. This is not an easy overnight fix. This is a process that we have to go through, but to continue to do what we've always done and expect a different result is the definition of insanity. And when we see other schools who are successfully implementing an A, B, and and why they've chosen to do so, it speaks to the value, the potential value of the schedule. It will take us some time to actually get the data to show us that. So. Any questions?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I agree with. You mentioned the Owls program, but it didn't affect your scheduling. However, I also heard the tech center affected your scheduling, so I'm a little confused because

[R8380-290] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: from 11 to 130. And so it's a separate alternative learning program for 30 of our students that just happens to be physically housed in this building, but doesn't run the schedule that the the tech center does, like HVAC and plumbing, carpentry, you know.
TEXT> Still considered students of the school. Yes. Graduating with the school during the school year.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So but they have their own schedule, which isn't it's a part from the A being.

[R8380-293] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by curriculum- | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: I think, as.
TEXT> Students is that it's not only Stevens High School students, it's also Newport or.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Newport.

[R8380-295] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - identified by curriculum- | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: Newport.
TEXT> And  so then it's not only the local schedule.  My understanding from what you're saying is it's not only the Stevens High School schedule that impacts those students, but  the the tech centers are also impacted by the schedule of other schools. Whereas Owls is only for Stevens High School students, not for students from other schools, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Unidentified: So how many different.

[R8380-299] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: Well.
TEXT> We have the alternative program, which was started this year. And that meets  yet a different populations needs. These are students who do not qualify for the owls because they're not they don't have the credit, accumulation that they need, nor are they juniors and seniors. So are all program focuses on freshmen and sophomores who, more often than not, come in with much lower skills and struggle in a regular classroom environment. They are students who other remediation hasn't  helped or worked for them, and absent in all program. They are likely candidates for out of district placement. So that's the definition of a student. That would be we would look at as a candidate for the Alt program. And then we have the owls. Students who are juniors or seniors have at least 13 credits and who have a different set of needs, and challenges, but who through an interview process, have to get into owls, and it's determined that they are the kind of learner that will be successful online.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And I also see the, you know, you're talking about the online schooling that you're you're providing now to. So, my understanding is you can be taking online classes on

[R8380-301] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And I also see the, you know, you're talking about the online schooling that you're you're providing now to. So, my understanding is you can be taking online classes on top of your six classes a day. Is that what I'm hearing?
TEXT> Yeah. So students take 3 to 4 a day for.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R8380-311] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brent Ferland: the math currently being run on the a B schedule. And just algebra is being run all day every day. Or is geometry into algebra two. Are they running semesters as well? How is that? Is is math truly a B or is it still.
TEXT> It's a combination. It's a combination. And we've done that to to see why algebra every day. Because algebra every other day. They weren't able to get through the entire content that they needed to get through by having it every other day, 75 minutes. And we had  seen that in order to get through that amount of content, we had two semesters of it previously. So that was that was a learning curve for us, and that's why we've changed it for next year. Geometry, though, is every other day. Algebra two is every other day when we get into the honors levels of those courses. However, they are semester long every day because we know that that population that those high flier students in those classes can handle that curriculum every day, and they're going to want to take up to eight classes in their high school career because they are going to NASA, or they are going into the medical field, and they want to get more math in versus the vast majority of students who are happy to get through their four
NEXT> Patricia Barry: math classes and be done. So. And now we also have the state law, which requires that students take math every year of high school. So that compounds how we

[R8380-312] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: up to eight classes in their high school career because they are going to NASA, or they are going into the medical field, and they want to get more math in versus the vast majority of students who are happy to get through their four
TEXT> math classes and be done. So. And now we also have the state law, which requires that students take math every year of high school. So that  compounds how we students into math versus in the past. Now, does it mean for credits? And it doesn't say anywhere in the law that they have to pass four years of math, but it says they must take four years of math, and one of those maths can be a class that has the math competencies embedded in it. So we could look at a tech center class that has the math competencies and say, okay, that qualifies as that fourth math component for that student, or a science class, for example.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: And are all freshmen expected to be enrolled in algebra, or is there some pre-algebra and remedial math?

[R8380-315] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> There's pre-algebra and there's also math skills for lower skill students as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: As skills.

[R8380-319] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Yes. Actually. Go ahead. Also.
TEXT> Something about what you just said. When I was in algebra two, I also was doing it with people who were in their gray below me because an eighth grade can take algebra one and it counts as your high school algebra one, so you can have actually people. I don't know if that's still true. You can have people coming into high school being able to take algebra two from the start, which is why there is a big problem with having to have the classes that needed the math part of it, because you had kids who they took every single math class. And then this year, even with the new Abby schedule, if you work it out  because of the half semester. So it's a good thing that we're having it with, like, I know chemistry counts  as a part of math. I also had a question about these. Are these schools allowing college classes to be taken? Because I know we have River Valley, and I know there's certain colleges that in our. Local area that offers classes, but IT students are not allowed to take them now because of the A, B schedule, because we cannot work around the college and they can't change for us because they're their own educational standing. So do these also have those?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Good question.

[R8380-327] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: Now the word credit is nowhere used in the RSA. It says yes, students need to take math in every year of their high school. That's how.
TEXT> I read it. Going back to Linda, someone that was near and dear to me, she to finish her comments on that, she felt that the a b was an absolutely losing proposition to finish the thought. She was one of those who, as Becky did, participated on the English. And, she felt that she was nowhere ahead. Everything took twice as long. It took her twice as long to figure out, to get to know her kids, twice as long to get to know their names, twice as long to remediate them. So she felt by the end of the year she was a no better position, particularly with the interruptions that come with long weekends. There were stretches of days where she felt, and it's sort of like what Angelica said, where she was always going back and having to bring them forward, where in a a block schedule. She did not have to do that. So I thought I would finish the rest of the Linda conversation because I think that's important. One of the other things in my research on these schools that are doing a B that actually are doing the A, B, and Nate was here, Treadway was here earlier. And I asked him the question pointedly, how many classes are you taking?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And he said, six. And that is the requirement of many of these other schools, is not that they take eight, but they take six. If you go and you

[R8380-329] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: handbooks, their programs of studies. Yet we have said on the reasons for change that we want to reduce study halls, and yet the schools that are doing them successfully have study halls built into their day. So I'm finding a contradiction there as well.
TEXT> We have study halls, but they're small.  They're very small. And I would agree, you know, but there are  students welcome that time. And what I've seen is that the study hall is now used more  as a true study hall, because they're using that time, or they're choosing not to go to the study hall. They're going and working on their course or their odyssey where course. And so it's a more productive use of their time.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: In that. What I'm saying is that the stated goal is to eliminate them.

[R8380-333] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes robotics students, board crosstalk, and t | 2016-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So and yet we have not. I get it with again going picking on Angelica because she spoke where when I was counting, I asked her how many courses she took, and I think you said 6 or 7.
TEXT> Technically. Take seven. The study was my student project. I couldn't fit. That. Into my actual.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So obviously you can't do that with an A B day where you're taking one course every year and hence you have to do the, maintain that inner 4x4 block

[R8380-340] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Tennessee.
TEXT> At least I'm speaking why we did it in Newport. And they were pretty universal. I'm sorry, but they're pretty universal reasons why. Yeah. The last thing, I'm going to give other people a chance to speak. But the last thing I want to point out is that I did go back and look at the, the dropout rate in the last year of the seven period day, and it was 19.9%, 37 dropouts. I'm not sure what the enrollment was. That's a four year average as opposed to our I think it's an what is it, two point something. So I'm not sure that all year classes are necessarily an indicator that kids will do better having classes all year. So that's I just wanted to point that out, that we were looking at much higher dropout rates down.
NEXT> Dennis McNichol: Just just.

[R8380-362] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: or integrating writing into the curriculum. And honestly, to me, that's that's what the issue is, not a scheduling thing. So I guess I was trying to kind of figure if we by changing the schedule, we've seen kind of a, a significant difference in.
TEXT> You're right, it's a multi-pronged question and issue because. Ideally we should be writing across the curriculum. Even in gym class. There should be writing happening and providing that PD making teachers who where Ela is not their discipline comfortable in the assigning and the assessing of writing is something we have to do a better job of. Having said that in a 4x4, when you could go up to 18 months between English classes, and knowing the reality is  the vast majority of the writing happens in your English classes. So if you are not in an English class and you have that span of time between them, you're going to have less writing that you're doing. It's just that's that's what we know. I mean, in an ideal world, every kid is writing in every class, and it is at a standard here. But we know that we're not there yet. And so that was one of the issues that is a vast difference between the 4x4 and was one of the big pieces where these gaps for math and English, that it was not frequent. But with that, that was the mathematical possibility that you could go that long, not to mention world language, when you can get through four years of world language in two years, and as a junior and senior, sit at Stephen's High School and have no language left to take, let's say if Spanish was your thing, you can go now.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Two years, come to college and have lost your Spanish fluency in that time, spreading that out over a year, a year of language, even though it's every other day,

[R8380-364] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: fluency in that time, spreading that out over a year, a year of language, even though it's every other day, increases your chance of being fluent and maintaining that fluency going off into college or the workplace. So that was another element of the decision.
TEXT> Thank you. And just one last clarification. Just, Franklin mentioned something that I, I was a student had kind of brought to you and asked me about what were mentioned. So, so I guess we have one of the differences that we, that we. So I guess I get confused so that a lot of schools that really they only need to be taking was it a six credits or six classes classes through the year. But we kind of require.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So the state requires 20 credits state. The state minimum requirement is 20 credits to graduate from a a public high school. We have said at Stevens that we feel

[R8380-371] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Marion I'm here.
TEXT> 36 credits. The student went four years in 36 credits.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Or 30.

[R8380-390] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> No, everybody has to do this. Now for some seniors, let's say where we said, that let's say for the 27 credit Diploma of Distinction, you need to have four years of this boom, boom, boom. We grandfathered seniors and juniors on some of this because they could not have under the 4x4 gotten that number of credits. And so but have they done their due diligence and gotten their 27 credits? Yes. Do they deserve that diploma of distinction? Yes. Are they all aligned in the same credit lines as later students will be required to meet? No. So we've grandfathered those students and said yes, you've met the requirement. You will get the diploma with distinction. But after that you we have to follow. But everybody is on the on the A B.
NEXT> Unidentified: Starting next.

[R8380-400] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Perfect.
TEXT> And students can also come out having taken running start classes, which are taught by our faculty, but using a an accredited curriculum so they can come out with college credits that way as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: Excellent. Sorry.

[R8380-402] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Excellent. Sorry.
TEXT> Going out there and seeing that the schedule affects us the most, with change is always hard. And I know that I've scheduled my years around Stevens so I could take college classes with this. A B schedule does restricted because I'm an athlete.  I do a lot of extracurriculars, I have jobs, I cannot do it during the weekends. I can't do it like in the evenings. So that was a huge point of why the schedule, I think, was so difficult for a lot of students to be able to accept. Adeline Nelson did a huge research project on the schedule, and I like to bring up a point that she quoted in a letter to Frank Sprague. She said the Ebbinghaus for getting curve shows that a person will only remember 28% of something they learned just two days ago, and the number continues to drop as more time goes by. For anyone here who's learned a language,  you have to stick with it every day. My mother was fluent in many languages, and the biggest thing about it was she had to go over it every day.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: Or else the slight things of how you pronounce something or how you say something is forgotten, shown with this curve. One of the biggest points is I took German

[R8380-403] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: continues to drop as more time goes by. For anyone here who's learned a language, you have to stick with it every day. My mother was fluent in many languages, and the biggest thing about it was she had to go over it every day.
TEXT> Or else  the slight things of how you pronounce something or how you say something is forgotten, shown with this curve. One of the biggest points is I took German  my freshman year with the block scheduling or the 4x4, and I got I found it very easy to learn things. I'm in German three right now. It's a full year class. It's not coming as easy. Yes, it's a more challenging course, but I believe that with it being every other day, it's harder to be able to understand a concept when you have to review what you went over two days ago and if you had it on a Thursday,  then it's on a Monday, but you had the weekend and you had a Friday where you didn't go over it. So that's three whole days that you didn't go over it. Another thing was  a lot of people have been mentioning, well, the study hall like this was meant to not have a study hall. And flex has been very helpful. If you ask any student at Stevens, I think they'll say it's a blessing from God or anyone. But  if you do not have a study hall, it's a lot of work to put on a student, and I know with their other schools is not a of I can't do it.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: It's I haven't been used to being able to do it. So I think another reason why kids are so unused to it is because the teachers at the beginning

[R8380-404] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: I think they'll say it's a blessing from God or anyone. But if you do not have a study hall, it's a lot of work to put on a student, and I know with their other schools is not a of I can't do it.
TEXT> It's I haven't been used to being able to do it. So I think another reason why kids are so unused to it is because the teachers at the beginning of the year, I know the faculty talked to them and they said, you need to give a lesser workload. And I think the big setback that you're seeing from students is in the beginning of the year, each teacher was giving their students the same amount of homework. So that's double what they used to get in a night. So the reason why I'm pointing out these three points is when you move on to decide something, you need to address the problems at hand, and it's not addressing them for what they are, it's for the reasons behind why they're here. So if you do choose as a board to make this adjustment to the A B schedule next year,  I would seriously consider how this is affecting students who want to take the college classes at another college, how language has been affected, and I would consider talking to the Spanish, German, French department, asking them what they're seeing because it'd be interesting to see research.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: Or has a test gone better, has it gotten worse? And it also seriously asked the teachers and the students because, yes, as Mr. McGowan said, we cannot make a

[R8380-405] Marian Lovett | Student representative, Stevens High School (name per Superintendent [ | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: seriously consider how this is affecting students who want to take the college classes at another college, how language has been affected, and I would consider talking to the Spanish, German, French department, asking them what they're seeing because it'd be interesting to see research.
TEXT> Or has a test gone better, has it gotten worse? And it also seriously asked the teachers and the students because, yes, as Mr. McGowan said, we cannot make a decision based off of small group of people. But isn't that what the school board is? A small group of people that yes, we have elected, but it's the students and the teachers who are ultimately the ones  having to deal with the workload and having to be the ones affected by it the most. So I'm not saying if I'm against or if I'm for it, I'm just pointing out that  it's a big decision and it's a decision that  us students  are the ones that become responsible for. So thanks.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: A very articulate student, said Stevens.

[R8380-406] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Marian Lovett: be the ones affected by it the most. So I'm not saying if I'm against or if I'm for it, I'm just pointing out that it's a big decision and it's a decision that us students are the ones that become responsible for. So thanks.
TEXT> A very articulate student, said Stevens.
NEXT> Marian Lovett: Even if I can't speak.

[R8380-409] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> Think it's amazing that I think it's  I think it's amazing that that a that you're transitioning with, with all of the complications. And again, there's so many complications and there's so many different areas that this could be failing right now. And it's not for most. And I see how it could be for some. And I understand and empathize with, even with the differences in how you have to learn every other day to day, every day. I could not go every other day myself personally. I'd have to go every day. However, I, I also see the great benefit of what it's going to bring down the road. And again, it's it's such a fundamental thing to remember that that behind you guys are all these other kids that are going to get a whole different world because not because a few people made that choice for them, but because all of the teachers and all of the people went out and did the research and came back and set the paperwork down and said, now let's look at all of this and and then make an informed decision why I asked so many questions tonight,
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: because I didn't understand some of how those decisions came to be. I didn't know if it was just all one person going, this is what we need to do,

[R8380-438] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: I got you you know what I just I.
TEXT> A school I, I taught out when we had a student that was doing something along that line. And again, there was a small school we had a one student but and, but we, we were able to individualize to, to kind of, you know, where he kind of had kind of an independent study and just needed to check in with the teacher. I guess that's one of the things I'm kind of hearing is, to it seems like we could make some things work, you know, if we can find some more creative ways, like, for example, like having English and math  programs in,  at the tech center and, and, like, meaningful, like, you know, the math that integrates some of the, the actual applications or having, you know, no technical writing, but like having the writing that I'm not talking about throw away writing. There's a lot of ways to do it. Then that was something I heard suggested, and those are some of the ways that sounds like we have to try and do it, because I think trying to make the schedules work is not going to happen.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we have about 20 active ellos right now for students extended learning opportunities. So these are credit bearing courses that are where the student meets weekly or every other

[R8380-439] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: a lot of ways to do it. Then that was something I heard suggested, and those are some of the ways that sounds like we have to try and do it, because I think trying to make the schedules work is not going to happen.
TEXT> And we have about 20 active ellos right now for students extended learning opportunities. So these are credit bearing courses that are where the student meets weekly or every other day or every day in flex with the guiding teacher. They create the curriculum together.  They say, here are the competencies. And that student either supplements what they're doing outside of school for a course. And to give you an example, we have a student taking horseback riding. And so she worked with one of our PE teachers to say, this is what I do when I go horseback riding, instead of me taking a PE class instead of some other course that I would would rather have, aren't I not meeting my PE competencies? And so our health teachers PE teacher sat down and said, okay, tell me what you do when you back riding and together he said, you're meeting this competency here, this competency here. He oversaw the work that she was doing for the course of the semester. She got her point five PE credit instead of having to take it in school. She was she was meeting what she needed. And so those are that's one way of doing it. I want to take Mandarin Chinese. Oh, so-and-so is fluent in Mandarin Chinese on our faculty.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Great. Let's do an l o together. And I'm going to learn it with you in this setting. You know, that's a that's a totally other different scenario, about 20

[R8380-440] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: five PE credit instead of having to take it in school. She was she was meeting what she needed. And so those are that's one way of doing it. I want to take Mandarin Chinese. Oh, so-and-so is fluent in Mandarin Chinese on our faculty.
TEXT> Great. Let's do an l o together. And I'm going to learn it with you in this setting. You know, that's a that's a totally other different scenario, about 20 of those in different ways. So that those are either taking the place of a course, allowing a student to take a course other otherwise on their schedule, or saying, okay, I don't have to take this course here because I'm meeting it in some way outside of school.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So just a couple of quick notes, because I think there's one factor this whole exercise is there. Is no one solution that's going to make everybody happy and fix

[R8380-441] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: ways. So that those are either taking the place of a course, allowing a student to take a course other otherwise on their schedule, or saying, okay, I don't have to take this course here because I'm meeting it in some way outside of school.
TEXT> So just a couple of quick notes, because I think there's one factor this whole exercise is there. Is no one solution that's going to make everybody happy and fix everybody's problem and satisfy the needs of every single student in their individual, whatever. It's just not going to happen. It's just not going to happen. I think Mary and I was hoping to get it before she left. She hit on some really good points. First off, it's changed. We resist change. We don't like change. We have to adapt to change. She made another really good point when it came to the college issue in River Valley is, you know, you want to play sports, you want to have a job, or do you want to go to college at some point? My daughter went through it. When she did the catch the wave. She had to make decisions and the scheduling didn't affect that in any way, shape or form. She had to make a choice after school, but she was able to go to classes at 230 or 3 when they were offered. So  if you want it, you said something earlier that is 100% true. If the student has the support group and the drive what they want is available.
NEXT> Chris Irish: It may not be the same flavor today as it is. Tomorrow was yesterday, but it's there if they want it bad enough. But what she touched on most everything

[R8380-458] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member (self-i | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: When you're talking data.
TEXT> Just two points. Richard seaman, Ward three. Two points. One is we put in the flex period, which was a really critical component of putting in the schedule and how that's working. You said it was going to take a year to sort of make it come together. And I think one of the data points is how many kids are using it for competency recapture or how many aren't being able to complete their competencies. So just how the flex period is working. And then another one, which I think was mentioned by Middleton, was offering additional professional development days for teachers. And I remember when we were putting this in place, teachers need to teach differently with an A B schedule than a block schedule, right? And it impacts their workload. You wouldn't want to give a test today and a test tomorrow and then have to correct 100 tests, for example. And I know that we had talked down through that. So it would be interesting to understand if all of our teachers have had the opportunity to get through it, or is there additional investment necessary working with the teachers to help on how to how to work within this, this a B schedule differently than the way they were working before. Just a couple of data points.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And to go back to what Marian's she, she mentioned that at first teachers were giving. They were teaching at the same pace, given the same workload as a regular

[R8380-460] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: for half a year. Instead, without realizing that they were now going to be going the full year. So hopefully some of that, some of that has worked itself out and the teachers have adjusted to what they need, what sort of output they need.
TEXT> Exactly. And it has because and that's the other piece. This has been a huge learning curve for the staff. You know, for 15 years you teach 45 kids for a semester, and then you get on to and teach another 45 kids for a semester. And you're in that rhythm. That's what you know. And all your assessments, all your lesson plans are all based on that, that time frame. And to take that and now stretch it out. The other critical piece is what role does homework play? And Marian speaks to that when you're if you're going to really maximize an A, B, what you assign for homework has to look radically different. So the exercises in world language that you're giving students to work on, on that off day, to maintain that fluency, have to be for that purpose. The math exercises that you're giving students to do have to be a way to stay in the game. Stay fluid and flexible with that math knowledge in your off day. So absolutely we need more PD because how to adjust instruction and assessment. And the role of homework is huge in in maximizing an a B schedule.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I have.

[R8380-464] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - addressed as 'Brant' [849]  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> Where do they get that number. Is that based off standardized. Kneecap scores? Kneecap scores. Is there any way. And I would love to see this number to see how many of their of these schools I'd be curious to see, for example, Stephen's from that year how many, 11th graders failed English. Because I'm curious to see how our failure rate lines up with our proficiency rate, for the grade level, because I think that goes back to the other issue that we really haven't touched on. That kind of thing goes hand in hand with the schedule. Is this district wide agreement involving the grade level academic expectations? Because if we have 61% of grade 11 students that were not proficient in reading, I cannot believe that we failed 61% of our English students that year. Right. But we should have.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, 60.

[R8380-475] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Chris.
TEXT> I agree with everything you said, except we're missing one key point and this is why I will forever hate me. Caps.  There is absolutely zero accountability for any kid to give it one iota of care about that kneecap, because it has no impact on their educational future whatsoever. If we want to make the kneecaps part of graduation requirement, count me in. Sign me up. I'm good. But until we do that, need the knee cap. Results to me are just like when I was a kid and all I did, I made sure I could get that right thing when I circled the dots so it looked like a horse. That's what they. I'm sorry, but I.
NEXT> Unidentified: Need you to.

[R8380-491] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Look.
TEXT> The other thing. May I, may I may I recommend that we do,  the collective bargaining established meeting dates. March 24th. I asked for dates. Yes, yes. Having trouble coming to consensus with dates to meet with us, working with the NEA student rep. So that's still a work in progress. So I, I want to bang that drum again versus have us establish some dates when we can't even get dates from them, with all due respect. But I think it's important that we have a discussion regarding the calendar and the strategic plan, because we need to fish a cut bait with a strategic plan. We have a consultant. The data is in front of you. The plan is outlined. This gentleman was involved with the plan of over a decade ago. Proven performance comes from New Hampshire School Board Association. The fee is $8,000. I thought that was a little high until I heard a neighboring community is spending 30 grand. So I think it's important. But the calendar and strategic plan tonight.
NEXT> Unidentified: Can we? Sure.

[R8380-495] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Everybody good? Yeah.
TEXT> So I look forward to coming back to, after the Saturday information comes out, which is May 18th, to give you some data there. And we have a flex committee, and staff and students have been given opportunity to respond to a number of questions about flex. And the committee is putting together a list of suggestions for what to do next year to improve flex. So I'll be coming to you with that information as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: Pat. Okay. Thank you, thank you, thank you Pat, it's good.

[R8380-510] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: He said back.
TEXT> I was wondering, see at the end where you have all the makeup days? Yes. Is there any way that I know that those are for like snow days or something like they are? Most snow days happen in the second and the third quarter. So was there any way that those that those that the days could be longer so that the actual I know that you can't put a makeup day in the middle of that, but when you look at this calendar here, then if there were more days put in, those months sort of say, then you could change where the quarters end so that because if there were six snow days, say, those six snow days are going to go away from I'm just saying we'll say three snow days. You're taking them from a from a time when they're really needed and you're adding them on to the end of the year where most students have checked out. But you really need those days in that second and third quarter where they were taken away.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: This model, what you're used to is 180 days. Our model has 175 days. And in essence, it's three days less than the than the 186. So if we have

[R8380-557] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brent Ferland: another issue about something that doesn't need to be, I, I know that parent teacher conferences are important. Don't don't misunderstand me. But, it might might make sense just to kind of okay, give them that day back, turn it into instructional day and then.
TEXT> But then they they've got a much better. Excuse to just say, no, we're not doing we're not doing the parent teacher than we've lost the what exactly what they're trying to accomplish, which is parents and kids.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: My my view point is that at the end of the day, the school board has the authority under state statute to make.

[R8380-562] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: If I if I may.
TEXT> Right. So let me give you an example. And I think it's an excellent one. So let me give you an example about working with the a the, the coaches stipends. The compensation for the coaches was not included in the collective bargaining agreement. They were locked. They were stuck. We the administration sat down with the Sri and for very short money made an adjustment. Now did we have to? No, but we want to treat people fairly and appropriately. So that was our bone, if you will, trying to work with people. It's a give and take. It's a give and take. It's not reinforced concrete with steel bars and rigid and unfortunately the CBA, that's why I had those handcuffs. It doesn't have to be that way. Respected followed, but a little bit of give and take, especially when we're talking about the needs of students and programs. So I'm comfortable that we are giving and working with them.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: People that sit there in front of us and said, look what we did. We came up with an idea and they Skyped. Why can't we do parent Skyping, parent

[R8380-565] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: The Commonwealth Heritage or conferences?
TEXT> I don't know a teacher that works in the Claremont School District that if a parent called them up and said, I want to talk to you about my student, that they would refuse to meet with them. So I just feel like I recognize that time is set aside at the end of corners, at the end of semesters, at the end of something, but I also know that there is not a teacher I would willing to be to put money on it, that if they, a parent, wanted to talk to them, that they would not stay till 430, 5:00, or whatever they needed to do to speak with that parent.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I agree with that. And I better go from a from another experience side of mine. I wholeheartedly support administration is proposing because that's what I pay them to do.

[R8407-14] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School student representative to the board | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: students identify a geography based community. Issue projects range from illegal dump sites to government subsidized housing, and from manufacture and service sector facilities to alcohol use throughout the nation. On May 7th, the band choir musical theater class competed in festivals in the park.
TEXT> The musical theater competed in the show choir category and took an excellent rating with a score of 88. This was the first time the musical students have ever competed in this festival. The choir took an excellent rating first place with a score of 89.5, and also on the distinction of top choir in the festival. This was the first time our choir had taken overall top group. The band took a superior rating with a score of 98. They took top band and festival. This award has only been won by the Stevens Band twice in the last 20 years. Kudos to all music students! On Tuesday, May 24th, we will be celebrating Underclassmen Awards in the auditorium starting at six. And then I also have a sports update. Oh, and Fiddler on the roof will play Thursday through Sunday at seven. All for except the 2:00 matinee on Sunday.  I'll figure out what date that is. And then. So from Mr. Beaupre.  The spring season is winding down. Tennis will have their final home match this afternoon versus Conan, and we'll be getting ready for the playoffs next week. Track will have their final home meet tomorrow versus Paul Mountain, Canaan, Kearsarge, and Bishop Brady. Hopkinton, Woodsville and Mount Royal. The Me will begin at four. Baseball and softball will have their final home games next Tuesday versus Hillsboro during high school.
NEXT> Unidentified: Both games will start at four, with the baseball team celebrating their seniors before the game. Softball has no seniors in the roster. The varsity baseball and varsity softball teams

[R8407-21] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: To.
TEXT> Talk to us about your experiences that Stevens High School, what went well? What were you pleased about? And are there any areas that we should look at?  The conversation was very candid. It was respectful. It was eye opening. So I look forward to sharing that information with you. And remember, this is this has gone back as far as I know, 13, 15 years. And so it's not what a group of students said, but what has been said over time, that is that is important for us to acknowledge the student voice. I mean, students don't run the school district. We know that it's an adult world, but they are our clients. And the student voice is very, very important to, to listen to and to take on the consideration. So I look forward to having that discussion with you. There is a yellow piece of paper in front of you. Put with your agenda. It's an email  from Vic Saint-Pierre of the assistant director of Public Works. As you know, there has been quite a bit of concern, especially Flint, Michigan, regarding the quality of water. And so,  Mr. Saint-Pierre sent Stephen Holt, an email of attached a new report that was sent out by the New Hampshire Department of and EPA about lead in the water.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: This is a big issue around the country, and they are trying to educate everyone on the causes. Fortunately, we are ahead of the curve in Claremont. And he added

[R8407-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Kathleen Bonnell invited Arcadia five faculty to meet in elementary school yesterday afternoon. And the whole purpose was to gather information and to, in essence, empower our faculty regarding this year and to help establish, areas that need attention to help establish our future priorities.
TEXT> But if you look at both sides of this, this represents the work that has been going on in our elementary schools with the leadership of our principles, the hard work of our, of our,  of our faculty, as well as, Kathleen Bunnell and the Central Office Administration new reading program teacher effect in this model, new writing units, year two of the math program, a new report card, requests for volunteers for curriculum, work, work, curriculum work that pulled from that pulled from classroom, full day kindergarten mentoring, late nights, weekend hours, and math performance assessment. And then the second year of Smarter Balance. Now, the reason Kathleen  reviewed this with our colleagues is to thank them and to acknowledge their hard work. But this long list doesn't represent many more long lists are going to come. To add to this, we have to be careful about our our professional educators capacity and to support them. But focusing on the priorities and in essence, doing less better. It may look great on paper with a long list of initiatives, but in truth, the returns are diminishing if you try to impress with the long list. But in essence, it's not realistic or sustainable working with students in our faculty. So I just want to emphasize that the plans for next year continue the momentum our teachers have started.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I want to repeat, our teachers have started. We're moving in the direction we're moving because of our teachers dedication, commitment and professionalism. Remain focused on current curriculum development

[R8407-52] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: It's great. It's great to hear.
TEXT> I must say, if I may, the meals on Friday are terrific. This Friday I can't attend, but I understand it's eggs salad. It is. And if the picture, it gives it any credit, it's a full meal. And what I also very much appreciate is the politeness and the and the etiquette that the students display. Taking your plate, bringing you to the seat. It's it's like a four star restaurant. So  well done to both of you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Good job. Thank you. Good guess that's it.

[R8407-64] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: student making decent progress in that first ten weeks of school against that standard? So the two challenges that the two arguments that are out there is should you have quarterly increasing raising the bar recorder, or should you always be reporting against the standard?
TEXT> And then again, we have to take into consideration  our all those concepts taught. When are they taught? If you look, the Common Core standards break down at certain grade levels. How many and which  facts should be learned. And so we are writing along, but we're kind of hitting this little plateau glass ceiling. And we're just kind of wondering why. And, you know, we're pounding, pounding, pounding, and we're just kind of stuck in a in a little bit of position here. So we really took a look at this year what what we are doing and what we are learning. So  when you put a two minute timer on a test,  especially at the younger levels, it starts to create a lot of anxiety and you'll have kids who start to freeze just because they know that clock is ticking in front of them. So there's a psychology of doing this. We also have kids who are thinking about the clock would get to the fifth problem. It might be a six plus seven. And that's not one that comes to them readily. And you know what they do? They jam and two minutes are over and they have four answers. Is that really reflective of what they know?
NEXT> Dan Cherry: So we have redesigned some of the probes. We did initially have the probes be at the beginning of the year earlier. So you can see the younger kids in

[R8407-65] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: the fifth problem. It might be a six plus seven. And that's not one that comes to them readily. And you know what they do? They jam and two minutes are over and they have four answers. Is that really reflective of what they know?
TEXT> So we have redesigned some of the probes. We did initially have the probes be at the beginning of the year earlier. So you can see the younger kids in the addition probes had a lot of plus zero plus ones. But then we made those disappear in quarter two. And then, you know, the the. So we couldn't tell exactly because we were moving the target and changing the facts at the same time. So we really and we didn't really understand all that until we kept looking at the data. So one of the things that's happening with Math and focus this year is there are many more strategies being taught, especially early on. So it gives it's giving the students many more ways to attack some of these problems. So at Maple Avenue, we decided just to say, hey, can we take a look at this a little bit differently. And we are we have a consultant working with us by the name of Doctor Greenleaf. And we've been looking at this more as a formative. Can we break these things down and look at the data more formative, instead of it being a one shot two minute and whatever it is, it is. So some of the things that we did first with our first and second graders was we just said, you know what, no time limit.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Let's just see how long it takes you to get it done. Some kids got it done in three minutes. Some kids got it done in four minutes, some kids

[R8407-66] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: at the data more formative, instead of it being a one shot two minute and whatever it is, it is. So some of the things that we did first with our first and second graders was we just said, you know what, no time limit.
TEXT> Let's just see how long it takes you to get it done. Some kids got it done in three minutes. Some kids got it done in four minutes, some kids got it done in five minutes. And then what we did is we challenged them to say, that's your score to beat. And over time, they're dropping their times significantly. Five minute kids were dropping into the threes you know high twos. But still that two minute threshold for kids who don't have it right away is still a challenge to hit that target. We've also come to understand that volume on a page can be overwhelming. We've cut these things into strips vertically. We've cut them into strips horizontally. There are some kids who bring the attack the problems. They can attack the problems this way, but they can attack the problems this way. And there's actually evidence around that. This is a that's true about how kids brains work. We redesigned some of the probes and then the question came up because all of a sudden we have parents calling who are engaged in this and saying,  well, I don't know what to do with my kid. I don't know. We practice every day.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Well, what do you do at practice? Well, we have these flashcards, Mr. Cherry. He could go through 50 of these like nothing. Two minutes. Easy. No problem. They can

[R8407-67] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: We redesigned some of the probes and then the question came up because all of a sudden we have parents calling who are engaged in this and saying, well, I don't know what to do with my kid. I don't know. We practice every day.
TEXT> Well, what do you do at practice? Well, we have these flashcards, Mr. Cherry. He could go through 50 of these like nothing. Two minutes. Easy. No problem. They can recite it, but they can't necessarily go from here to pencil to paper in two minutes.  So can we. Is it the same if someone can. Can someone be proficient by having that same pile of math facts? But just going 279405 ten seven. Right. And those are the ways we're looking at more accurately report what students can do in a performance.  So it's changing a lot of attitudes about math, which is that whole teaching and learning cycle. Are there multiple ways to measure success? Are there multiple ways to demonstrate success, even though we know what the standard is, is that we want people to be have solid knowledge and  be able to attack their math facts. So, I think I got one more slide around this topic. So we are just now doing our year end probes. We're going to look at giving some kids different opportunities to represent that. We  have, we're exploring other practice ways to practice and other resources within our math and focus program. We're still asking questions about, should we revise these?
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Is that two minute. There's really nothing out in the world that says two minutes as the benchmark to be able to do 50 facts. And by the way, if

[R8407-68] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: doing our year end probes. We're going to look at giving some kids different opportunities to represent that. We have, we're exploring other practice ways to practice and other resources within our math and focus program. We're still asking questions about, should we revise these?
TEXT> Is that two minute. There's really nothing out in the world that says two minutes as the benchmark to be able to do 50 facts. And by the way, if you count all the fact families zero through nine, there's 100, right? There's 50. And then you have all the inverses of those, is quantity. How is how should we do and what is the best way to report? One of the things that we found is when we tell parents that 50 is really the goal, we want them to have all their facts memorized. They really understand very clearly. When we say your kid has last assessment was able to do 37 out of 50. No one converts that to a number, a decimal or percentage. They understand 37 out of 50. It's really challenging when we say it's proficient, but proficient might not mean 50 out of 50. And so that begs the question if they got 45 out of 50 facts right. Do you know your math facts and is that proficient or is 50 out of 50 really what it means to be proficient? This is all these are all the conversations that are coming up.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: You know, again, sometimes you might say, well, you guys are really overthinking this. But when you look at it, individual child and you're starting looking at their data and

[R8407-70] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: inevitable that this town made one of their greatest investments when they moved to all day kindergarten, because the things that our kids are doing now in kindergarten, you know, we were six months into first grade before, the skills that they're showing us now.
TEXT> Wow. So, we'll be able to show  better after this fourth quarter, how attacking these looking at the structure, giving kids different opportunities to demonstrate what they know and and just not on a pencil and paper assessment that, that's where we're going to come back and try to look at last year's cohort versus this year's cohort with our data. And that's the I think that's our math fact part. Do we want to break it up there. Are there any questions around just that in particular please, Michelle.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Do you allow the children to actually pick? I know you said you did the strips where it went one way or the other way. Is there are you allowing

[R8407-80] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So and I assume that the teachers are the grade level teachers are talking to each other about how they're progressing. How about school to school. Do you have that opportunity to compare data or.
TEXT> We did. We did that more  last year. And and again, what was challenging about what's challenging about reporting this data is trying to really show growth. So what we did what we did last year was we looked at, there were 50 questions on each probe. And so then we did it, said, okay, how many kids got zero do ten, 11 to 20 because we wanted to try to find a way to show it, you know, like show that something was happening. But with its there, we I don't know if there's a really strong way to represent. You know what I mean? It's so it's it's micro. It's, it's these little things. And I'm trying to make a scale to show a difference. So you could see it, but it's, it's, you know, it's there's a little there's a little up curve, but it's very, very gradual.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So it makes a big difference on these sheets. When that seven times six where the numbers start getting big that they're harder to, you actually have to figure them

[R8407-101] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (O'Neill: 'What Patrick was just talking | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thanks.
TEXT> I so have what do we have as far as, gauging the students engagement and interest in math while we're coming, having to it when we're, you know, we have a lot we we have a lot of a lot of focus on, you know, the standards and data. I, I just wanted to kind of get a sense, you know, kind of how we're balancing out. Or is there a kind of kind of attention to, I think, students curiosity level?  I think  kind of more than just what they're able to perform and demonstrate, but sort of an inquisitiveness and interest in  math.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Your spot on. So that's one of our engagement is one of our themes for next year, right? I mean, we have that's you named it. That's exactly a huge

[R8407-106] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: them even great up, but what about the people who have mastered it? Are they being challenged any more than these tests that are being given to everyone? Because if they are showing mastery, are they being challenged a little bit harder than others or.
TEXT> You guys are you guys are just on the money tonight. Everything you said, it's completely on the money tonight. So interestingly enough, look, I just was recently looking at some NWA data and we have some second graders who are in the 99th percentile at at the beginning of the year. They are still in the 99th percentile now. But when you look at what they're  algorithm said should be their expected growth, they did not grow to what their expectations should be over the course of the year. They're still in the 99th percentile,  right? But they still should be challenged. They still should be growing. And, the data right now is telling us  that whether whether you want to use the word gifted or high achieving or whatever,  I don't think yet we're meeting their needs the right way. Now. We have a couple of products that we're exploring right now that is going to be doing has the potential of doing some really individualized instruction at their wherever their level is determined to be. And we're going to be making some decisions about that soon. But there's some real promise with the tools, some technology tools that are out there to allow us to take a kid that's three grade levels below and give them exactly what they need, and at the same time, giving that student who's in the 99th percentile and allowing them to grow to. So absolutely on our radar.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Moving on.

[R8407-111] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: writing tasks kindergarten through fifth grade. They all took on. They took them on kind of different times. The general time was the same. You can think of it as quarter one quarter to quarter three, quarter four doesn't quite fit in that time frame.
TEXT> I think it's an easy way to think about it. Launching was important. It really helps set the tone for the program and help provide routines, help provide clarity for kids, and really help provide clarity for our educators who it was new to this year. So by the time they got through launching into narrative, into opinion, into informative, they felt really confident and really good about how to teach the new program on the unit structure. And I'll kind of give you an overview of everything. I know how much you've seen of this. It takes time to produce proficient work in growth. You can't just do it in a week. You probably can't do it in a month. You probably can't do it in 6 to 8 weeks. It takes a long time. We're talking revisions. We're talking all sorts of different aspects to that, to that paper or that writing sample to meet what we would consider proficient. Really the big part of it is you want to make sure you have an identical pre and post assessment. It's difficult, as we all know, to judge how people do if you're if you're judging them on something different.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: So we want to make sure that in each of our four structures they have those same pre and post assessment that the kids could do. And so that we

[R8407-115] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: front of the whole group. It can be a part of that one on one time with teachers. There's a lot of different ways to manipulate that, but we wanted to make sure in those three in the lesson structure, those three things were met.
TEXT> So where do you write in units? Just in case you want to check it out, go to source six. I know we all have been there. Curriculum is highlighted in red. Please go there. Next thing you want to do is go to the writing philosophy. It's I couldn't fit the whole thing on. So there it is in the bottom. And then you click on one. This is grade three. It opens up and it looks like this. And again it would be all 11 lessons there. And you just see for there. So go check it out. It's all done on Google Docs. It's very neat, very accessible. But I want to make sure you guys knew how to get there. So let's talk about the opinion. Right. What does it look like. We're going to talk about grade threes opinion writing here I want you to kind of see everything that we talk about. And then we're going to show you some writing work so that you see kids, what they look like kind of in the beginning pre assessment what they look like post assessment.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: So opinion writing this is the the third unit in kind of our four lesson structure or our four unit structure. Again 11 lessons. It's vertically aligned. And what does

[R8407-126] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: it to how does it look. How does it present. Great. For this is an efficient one. We want to have video games. Should they have it? It was kind of a fun topic for the kids. Should they include video games in the library?
TEXT> Right. What's your opinion on that? That was the assignment here that fourth graders got to do. And and in this, this student did a nice job. And you see some, some more some more things out of here. We have quotes coming. We have a question mark. Other things that are happening here that are showing growth. Again expansive linking words, parentheses, more commas, more appropriate commas. And really big part is facts that support it. Do you have a nice closing. Do you have a nice intro? Again  we're growing year to year. And then finally this is a really excellent one. These are this this this story continues into the second page here. So it's just this one I don't have the pre and post. We just have this one here. But you can really see even the difference from an above proficient fourth grader to a fifth grader. This is an excellent example of growth. I mean it's just it's easy to read. It's well done. They support themselves well, right. Clear intro. It's logically ordered. It starts to make sense. There's clear closing.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: You can't see it here. But there is a there's like a four page paper. I couldn't I didn't want to put it on in, but there's a, there's a

[R8407-146] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of thanks and short remarks by several presente | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: go from one school to another school drastically. So what worked in one school, having the fact of knowing that all three schools are providing the same curriculum now in these teaching models is, I think, going to make a huge difference emotionally for a.
TEXT> Child.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: And relatively at the same time. Right? I mean, I mean, you may be a lesson off you're there, but the pre assessment and the post are all done at

[R8407-154] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Smelling really. Good about.
TEXT> Two things to the writing conversation before we wrap up. And that is the exciting part of watching our teachers through this process.  So we talk about engagement with kiddos. We also have some amazing engagement with our teachers, and they have had the opportunity not only to talk, within their grade level teams in their schools, but also at the district level. And so they've kind of calibrated as they start to score these. So what do I think is a good introduction? What do you think is a good introduction. They look at student samples together and say,  okay, I think this about this particular piece of work, what are you? So that we can also start to be on the same page about quality of work. So it's not just what Dan Cherry, Mike Lansing or Melissa Louis think as individuals, but starting to develop some common, some common understanding with that. And Mr. Sprague and I and our years together have had many wonderful conversations about teaching practices and writing in one of the greatest indicators for me about how kids are feeling about their writing is when they make comments such as the following.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: To you, Mrs. Lewis, we have a problem. Oh my gosh, what's the problem? We have an assembly scheduled during writing time today. Could you please move it? No, I'm

[R8407-155] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: that. And Mr. Sprague and I and our years together have had many wonderful conversations about teaching practices and writing in one of the greatest indicators for me about how kids are feeling about their writing is when they make comments such as the following.
TEXT> To you, Mrs. Lewis, we have a problem. Oh my gosh, what's the problem? We have an assembly scheduled during writing time today. Could you please move it? No, I'm sorry, I can't. But we can talk to your teacher about other times. You're going to have to write today. Okay, but I was at the really good part, so comments like that from kiddos share it with me. At least that they are excited about what they're doing. And that's coming from our teachers creating that and the lessons that this team has developed that are very engaging and motivating to kiddos. Another really exciting part is to watch teachers analyze student work. So you heard about those 1 to 1 Opportunities and Writers workshop. Those are conferences with students where teachers can say, here's what I noticed. I noticed that you use some pretty simple vocabulary here. We can kick that up a notch. What's another word you know, for big or little? What is it you're really trying to say here? How can we make that even more interesting to the reader? Those conversations with children are priceless, and that that immediate feedback at the individual level is what really changes a kiddos writing performance over time.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So it really is an exciting time. And when kiddos are angry at their principal because there's an assembly scheduled, I'll take the heat for that and understand that you

[R8407-160] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: child who, at the beginning of the school year, was reading with one of our assessments at a level five significantly below grade level. You heard Doctor Goodwin speak about some of the data meetings and what that looks like when our teachers get together.
TEXT> And again, all of our schools have them. They just look slightly different depending on the process we're using. We had conversation about this kiddo all year long. Kiddo, if this were, you know, Colin Lewis, would I be okay with this child score. Absolutely not. What are we going to do? Every single teacher. Same conversation. If this were my child, I'm not okay with this. What are we going to do differently? Level five at the beginning of the year. Whereas Mr. Cherry said we're kind of in assessment mode right now, end of year assessment. And so he took his Rigby for end of year, and he brought with me his chart and he said, well, you know, I came down the other day and told you that I tested at a level 17, right? Yes you did. We celebrated. We actually had lunch together, all those fun things that we get to do as a principal. Fremont and I are very close. We share lots of pizza to celebrate. He said, well, I kept testing because I wasn't done yet, and his teacher is just beaming at this point.  And I said, all right, give me the news.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Where did you land today? Well, I'm all done. I can't test anymore. I'm at the just the right level now. Super. What is it, a level 21? He is

[R8407-161] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: as a principal. Fremont and I are very close. We share lots of pizza to celebrate. He said, well, I kept testing because I wasn't done yet, and his teacher is just beaming at this point. And I said, all right, give me the news.
TEXT> Where did you land today?  Well, I'm all done. I can't test anymore. I'm at the just the right level now. Super. What is it,  a level 21? He is one level away from end of year benchmark. And he came in at a level five. Wow wow. Beginning of first grade this child could not be more proud. His teacher was beaming and as he said, had happy tears in her eyes. And they all know that when they come, they're going to get lots of praise, but they're also going to get a question. So what did you do to grow? As he told me, 16 levels and he gave me the math problem to go with it, which I was really impressed with. And I said, so what did you do? And he said, well, when I read, I read every single sentence, I read every single word. I don't leave any out because, you know, they're all important. And it's like listening to his teacher. It's like having a mini teacher right there. He could tell me all of the things that his teacher has taught him so that he could be a better reader.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And I said to him, how are you feeling right now? And he says, this is great. He says, I'm a rock star. Yes you are. And we have lots

[R8407-162] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: any out because, you know, they're all important. And it's like listening to his teacher. It's like having a mini teacher right there. He could tell me all of the things that his teacher has taught him so that he could be a better reader.
TEXT> And I said to him, how are you feeling right now? And he says, this is great. He says, I'm a rock star. Yes you are. And we have lots of rock stars. These guys could share similar stories, but this is the time of year where we especially get to see that. And so right now, if you were to walk into one of our elementary schools, teachers are beaming about the growth that individual kids are making. And as Mr. Cherry said, it's sometimes hard to show that growth in terms of group data. But when you can look kiddo by kiddo pre to post, beginning of year, end of year, it is pretty spectacular. So right now you're going to see probably some very tired elementary teachers because you've seen all that they've been up to. But some incredibly proud teachers because they're seeing the results of their work all year long. So lots to celebrate. And we look forward to sharing more with you next year.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Look forward to it.

[R8407-170] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Well, how about is that something that's being done?
TEXT> Can I so can I speak a little bit to that. And I'm sure  we have. So the reading program has a built in assessment component. There are if a teacher chooses to use weekly assessments, I can't say I have teachers using them as formal tests every week. What we do see, or a lot of teachers using those opportunities to teach test taking skills, as well as to reinforce skills that they've taught throughout that week so that there's that automatic opportunity to apply those skills in a situation that's different maybe, than they were practicing. That's just one form of reading assessments that we use. The one that I was speaking about, for example, is when I, kiddo, takes a brand new piece of text that they've never seen that's leveled, and they have the opportunity to read it out loud to a teacher. Teacher is able to look at how well they are. They a fluent reader? Are they an accurate reader? What's their comprehension? There's a series of maybe four questions that go with it assessing different comprehension levels, that determines whether, for example, a child moves on. So we for a for us to say that a child is a level X reader, they have to be accurate, they need to be fluent, and they need to have solid comprehension.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Teachers also use a wide variety of assessments, such as just what we call a running record, where they take a piece of text and they just listen to that

[R8407-173] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (O'Neill: 'What Patrick was just talking | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Of rigor.
TEXT> And I appreciate that clarification. And and and yeah, I understand there's like many assessments. I wasn't suggesting that that is how we're assessing. I didn't think that we were I guess I was kind of concerned because I felt that those questions are not I think the the very the sophistication of that language, the way it set up, I, I really were  I don't feel that those are questions that for second graders. And so I that's sometimes when I start worrying you know and I don't that's just I don't know I can't speak to the whole this is like a little sample. I have no idea what it reflects. But those are the kind of when I see these questions, I'm like, you know, are we looking at what we think is, you know, best for the the students to know, is this something based on what we're the, the  outcomes that we are expected to achieve? Because I kind of questioned if that that's kind of a, you know, the kind of the type of the type of questions that we're submitting to, kind of a second grade level. I just I just found myself questioning that and wanted. Yeah.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Makes you stop and wondering.

[R8407-205] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Me to you.
TEXT> And  then what else did we discover?  So our non targeted students, the students who were in groups that were a little larger  and who were getting the nice to know standards,  and, you know, with a literacy focus,  the students between the 30th and the 60th percentile, they made the growth that we thought that they that they would and according, you know, will give you projected growth. And they about made that growth. So we were okay with that. However, the students in the 61st to the 99th percentile made marginal or minimal growth. So that made us really take a step back and look at our classroom instruction through the entire day, like, okay, this is very interesting. You know, the kind of scratching your head trying to figure out where are we going with this.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: So through that conversation, we talked about the fact that the targeted reading instruction is greatly benefiting these students that are below the 20th percentile. But the realization was that

[R8407-206] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: minimal growth. So that made us really take a step back and look at our classroom instruction through the entire day, like, okay, this is very interesting. You know, the kind of scratching your head trying to figure out where are we going with this.
TEXT> So through that conversation, we talked about the fact that the targeted reading instruction is greatly benefiting these students that are below the 20th percentile. But the realization was that our classroom instruction, as it stands right now, is currently teaching to the middle. And that's not good enough for us.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: It's not good enough.

[R8407-209] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: For us.
TEXT> And so the students that are in the 61st percentile net are not making what we would like to see as their expected gains either. So we want to go back in and do some refocusing here.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right, right. Exactly.

[R8407-217] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: And that's that's something that our math and the LA teachers are also working on.
TEXT> And well-defined expectations for the teachers and the students,  as well as higher expectations with respect to rigor. Just want to point out that when Paulette was talking earlier about the group in the middle that made expected gains, it was really interesting in our in our data team meeting when we were looking at that, because even though it was what was expected for them to gain, we all kind of were like, We kind of want more.
NEXT> Unidentified: We do. So it was.

[R8407-234] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: classroom language our teacher and see where the problem is. What are the other factors at play here? Is this really what this student needs or should he be with this group? So we really take it and kind of analyze it to death almost.
TEXT> We do. And and it's the our data team is, we have very interesting, passionate meetings for sure. And so it's that passion is, is really exciting. And we presented this to our staff yesterday. We didn't want to be presenting something that they hadn't seen, and they've already  known this. And it was interesting because we've been doing end of year evaluations with teachers, and I've had several say,  I think I'm doing better, reaching the lower kids in the mid, kids in the mid level kids, but the higher kids, that's something I really have to work on. So  people are already aware of this. So it's.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's great. It really.

[R8407-264] Susan Taylor |  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: So we.
TEXT> Call. What we do a road show. And all that, and I. And Felicia and Courtney Porter go to all the. Three. Schools, and we explain, we bring them, we bring a PowerPoint, we have a kid PowerPoint, and we also have a parent night PowerPoint that we present. And we  tell them about what there's going to be for class, what classes they're going to have, what extracurricular activities. We talk to them about lunch. They usually ask us about cell phone use and lockers, lockers. They all think they're going to get  put in a locker. So we try to talk to them about what's going to happen. And then we also give, we give tours to we have our sixth graders, which we've just had them apply to be a tour guide. And then we go over what how to be a good tour guide. We, they're coming. Not two weeks in two weeks. And so our road show part is going to be next week. Where is when the slide show is. And so that's that. And then the eighth to ninth grade, we've already in February we went to the high school and the guidance  there and principals  showed us we mostly went over the program of studies and they got tours there.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: And tomorrow all of the eighth graders are going to visit. After lunch, they're going to see the people and sign up for extracurricular activities as well. That's a big

[R8407-266] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Susan Taylor: And tomorrow all of the eighth graders are going to visit. After lunch, they're going to see the people and sign up for extracurricular activities as well. That's a big treat for them.
TEXT> So the scheduling we do, Sue and I do a majority of the scheduling. Our fifth and sixth graders, we get a list of all the incoming kiddos. We separate them into different advisory groups depending on how many this year should be about ten. Last year was 11 because it was a larger group of kids coming in. It takes us weeks to get them inputted into the computer. We started end of April, beginning of May, and we're still not done with the fifth grade alone. We also break them up into class groupings. We do have a system in place for our advanced math kids coming into sixth grade. We're fine tuning it. We're working on it. It's evolved over the last three years, and it's just going to keep getting better. We've got some kinks, there's some tweaks, but there's always room for improvement. So we also split them up into six groups for our six classes and then enter them in one by one by hand into the computer.  Our eighth to ninth graders, we get the fabulous opportunity to sit down with all of our eighth graders and their parents.
NEXT> Felicia Harvey: We must have had 80% of the parents come in this year. It was fantastic to sit down with the kiddos, go through the program studies, talk about what they

[R8407-267] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Felicia Harvey: split them up into six groups for our six classes and then enter them in one by one by hand into the computer. Our eighth to ninth graders, we get the fabulous opportunity to sit down with all of our eighth graders and their parents.
TEXT> We must have had 80% of the parents come in this year. It was fantastic  to sit down with the kiddos, go through the program studies, talk about what they want to do after high school, how they want high school to go, what classes they want to take. We get recommendations from the eighth grade teachers in regards to language and math. Honors level versus  not  honors levels classes. Sometimes we kind of have to talk kids into the honors level. Sometimes we have to talk about at the honors level. It depends on, you know, their aspirations. And, it's it's it's a really good process. It takes a long time about the entire month of March for us to get through our eighth grade class. But we have a lot of fun with it.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: It's really a fun thing to do. It's one of them most enjoyable things we do. And then. We have these we call these transition meetings with the elementary schools

[R8407-272] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Susan Taylor: Every event.
TEXT> Yeah, they get bigger and bigger and it's awesome. And  we are hoping to have the student council this year give tours a little bit prior to our parent night, just with the parents can see, during the parent barbecue or, you know, the barbecue. There's also tours given then, and typically we do go the, the high school puts on a parent night for our eighth graders. And we do  try and join that as well.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: We'll say they the fifth to sixth grade parents are pretty nervous because they think middle school and it's time to move on. And then we get a few tears

[R8407-279] Susan Taylor | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced 'Felicia Harvey  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: The advisor.
TEXT> So  they've been really active. Yeah. We give and then we also allow for opportunities if kids need extra tours. I think we had one student last year. He came over seven times, I think, to see because he wanted to check, make sure he knew the locker. I get really nervous about doing the combo to the locker, so.
NEXT> Felicia Harvey: It's really cute.

[R8407-283] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: It is.
TEXT> So, so looking forward into the future. We did have this fabulous program that Paulette found for us overcoming obstacles. I think we're going to take a couple of days this summer to kind of break it down. It's a it's a binder like this thick. It's pretty thick. It has a bunch of lessons and whatnot. And we're gonna break it up for. There are some that are more focused on sixth grade. There are some that can be for some grade and some more focus for eighth grade and some for all of them. And so our plan is to, to give that to each advisor so that they can do activities and lessons with their kids. All year long and just have it really easy and set and plan and, and it'll be good.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: So it's more consistent. Everybody's going to be doing similar things.

[R8407-287] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Susan Taylor: And the guidance counselor. They, they're excited about the high school. They're like, yes. Bring it. Bring it on. There you go.
TEXT> I think. This is great. I, I I'm just so impressed so much moving forward. And the transitions sound like a really awesome thing that it just gives every single child the opportunity and that you're taking the time with every single child. I can't, I get the group teaching, but when you start looking at children as individuals instead of groups, you start seeing that  everybody learns different, every single person, and that you guys are all collectively  finding that and putting that to use and making a difference that way. It's showing. It's showing in our community. We have more children involved in some of my programs. I mean, in other programs,  you know, the high school kids being proud of their robotics stuff. We're talking about trying to develop a Lego room so that kids can have a competition and have something to do. So I just  I can't say how much how proud I am of being a part of this. This is pretty, pretty good. Without this, the city is not going to exist and you're all making a difference so the city can exist.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So it's funny, when I went to high school, I didn't get we didn't get tours. They gave us some that we had a map and set you. Yeah, it's

[R8407-296] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Sure.
TEXT> Pat. Fairy. Pat Mary is going to be coming back giving an update regarding the SAT's first test. Not so much of comparing and contrasting, but the experience. And also what is is gathered from this first statewide as a T that all students have the opportunity to take. So  look forward to that, Pat.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Oh.

[R8407-313] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Mr. O'Neill. You are o | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And don't understand. Okay.
TEXT> Sorry if a if a family lives in Newport and they have a student who's not a district placement  and they move to Claremont, that students out of the district placement still the only difference is instead of Newport cutting a check, Claremont's not cutting a check doesn't affect the student, but it affects where the parents live. We've had 6 or 7 this year and I know that there's more coming.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So what.

[R8407-323] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Every year I believe.
TEXT> Maybe is updated every year. But students children go through the testing process. So every three years so every.
NEXT> Unidentified: So for those of us who can't hear in the audience. So every year the IP is updated and.

[R8407-329] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: I suppose could happen more frequently than that upon.
TEXT> Request or certain scenarios. But  there are some assessments, for instance, that  are  static. So once the child is  is tested on a particular  area, that's how they will always test. And others change over time.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So do we have anything set up that we could we could change. How do we. My suggestion is, is how do we make it that when a child comes

[R8407-330] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: Request or certain scenarios. But there are some assessments, for instance, that are static. So once the child is is tested on a particular area, that's how they will always test. And others change over time.
TEXT> So do we have anything set up that we could we could change. How do we. My suggestion is, is how do we make it that when a child comes from another district, they're immediately tested, regardless of whether waiting a year or not.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: To.

[R8407-336] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: I can't service.
TEXT> Them here. I'm not. That's not true. I think that if we put the right things in place and we work hard enough to figure it out, that we could keep children in our district and not ship them out.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So a couple things. One is, Frank is correct that some of our children do have very profound disabilities and have disabilities that, we in public education would never be

[R8407-338] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: we do receive a student from another district and become the district of the liability, I think that it would probably be prudent to schedule an additional conversation when Chris Bezos, the director of special education, can be at the table because he knows far
TEXT> more about special education than than I do. And I will continue to field questions. But eventually I'll get to a point where I really don't know. And that's not fair to you. So I would love to be able to have Chris at the table to talk to some of these issues and concerns moving forward. But the other tricky piece, where it gets even messier is when you have the special Ed identification with an outer district placement on top of homelessness, because then who's responsible for the bill is really what the conversation comes down to. And each each individual case is not black and white and cat and dry. And as we as  families move not only around the state of New Hampshire, but around the country, we we certainly have received some. And we've also, sent some kids to other areas, so.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Yeah. So, Mike, I know this is something that that obviously would be for later presentation, but so, so I think regarding regarding this issue, this issue, I imagine that

[R8407-341] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (O'Neill: 'What Patrick was just talking | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: When we get to page when we get to see you're going to see it's it's it's much worse than that too.
TEXT> Well I guess it's one of these things, I mean and and I, I don't want to the idea of having these programs, it's not all about to me. It's not all about, you know, the dollar, but there is there. But, you know, one of the things that, you know, we're reason trying to kind of push for kind of having a in district, you know, alternate ed and also trying to really kind of for be able to accommodate more, students with IPS and and, and special needs, you know, was kind of the idea is trying to kind of avoid a lot of those driving costs of the out of district, schools. And, and, you know, I imagine this looking this is kind of probably relatively  small. I don't know, but I guess, yeah, that's one of those, those, I guess one of those questions, those questions I know that that, you know, I've been in district where we've had to send some students out and if there's families moved, like, yeah, I don't know, I, I see it just kind of coming. I didn't think about the fact that we'd have to be able to value value. We can't just send send them back if we feel that we're able to serve them in districts. I guess I'm still absorbing that idea.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We don't. Do we have a question?

[R8407-356] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: you're going to have to continue to pay. You can't say, well, you move to clean up what now you're coming back to the school. It's a process that takes time to get those back. And some of these can be $150,000 a year placements.
TEXT> I  guess I just don't understand how if someone chooses to move to another city that that child would if if we can in our district in here.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Right.

[R8407-363] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: And so, every child is considered on an individual case by case basis in terms of funding for these extreme cases, we are required by law to provide a free and appropriate public education for every child in the United States of America, every child.
TEXT> And so if if a single child's version of a free and appropriate, appropriate public education requires an out of district placement, then that's what we as a community are required to provide for them. So whether you agree with that or not is a whole nother scenario. But that's what the law dictates currently. And that's one of the struggles we have here in Claremont, is when you look at the number of identified students that we have and and what their needs are, it's sometimes a real struggle for you, particularly as board members, when you're preparing a reasonable budget, when so many of the costs within that reasonable budget are fixed and determined by  federal law without funding attached to it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The challenge with all of this, if I may, Brian, is that it is a federal law. Now, the school board could decide we're not going to follow this, and

[R8407-364] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: and and what their needs are, it's sometimes a real struggle for you, particularly as board members, when you're preparing a reasonable budget, when so many of the costs within that reasonable budget are fixed and determined by federal law without funding attached to it.
TEXT> The challenge with all of this, if I may, Brian, is that it is a federal law. Now, the school board could decide we're not going to follow this, and the penalty would probably be in excess of $2 million because the federal government would say, you're not following the law, you're not going to receive Ida funding. So we we were very, very diligent about it. We are working hard. To Patrick Adrian's point to available buildings or locations within the city that will provide us opportunities to have children not be placed out of district, to have a child or students remain in their own community. We looked at several homes and buildings recently. A few months ago, we looked at one. The architect said, it's going to cost you about a quarter of $1 million to bring this up the code, because a home or a building that was once a house, it might be perfect, has certain code requirements because it's going to turn into a school. So we're working hard for that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'm on the same platform as that because that was what we discussed when I first met with you was why something as simple as the moose, which is right

[R8407-375] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Of anybody for the education that we provide, the services that we need to provide, because it's it's our responsibility. It's our part of our social contract, I think. And.
TEXT> And, and I don't have a problem with that because I was in that problem. I did have to send my child out in the system 15 years ago, ten years ago. So I understand the draw of having to be the parent coming in and saying the education IEP is not being met, what are we going to do next? I mean, I had to drive my daughter to took it twice a day, every day for one year of her high school here in Claremont, which is the cost to the taxpayers. However, in my opinion,  it had been a situation where we could have had a space here she could have gone to or the new programs that they now have in place. I don't think that cost would have been there. Do you see what I'm saying? And we know I have. I'm now on this side of it. I mean, I'm not discrediting and I and I certainly don't I won't in my opinion. I want an IEP to be as, as far place so that that child has the best education, just like any other child and is visible to anyone in, in the the school system is just another kid doing coming in.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And all of the different changes between kindergarten and now have definitely are going to make a huge difference with those children. Get to high school there. IEPs might even

[R8407-377] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (O'Neill: 'What Patrick was just talking | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: between kindergarten and now have definitely are going to make a huge difference with those children. Get to high school there. IEPs might even drop, but I just see such a large quantity. And I just want to understand how we can make a difference.
TEXT> Do you think I mean, I see you know, it's make more sense now. I mean, when I in Newport when I was. We, we had we had in our program we have we had a couple of students that,  that their social emotional disabilities, they were their behaviors and emotions were explosive to the point of being dangerous to them selves, to the environment. But it wasn't like we we didn't just couldn't just say, we're going to send you out. We had to kind of go use we had to do a lot of kind of evaluations and testing so that it was determined. It was really determined, through using the IP process, that this was unnecessary placement. We had to we had to be able to kind of really, show that through the evidence. So I guess it makes sense that especially mid-year for you, it would be before they have another, you know, really have another I p you know, evaluation. We're not because we  isn't. We have to kind of this is we have to we can't just make that decision. We have to be able to come. It has to be decided that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And you have to eliminate other, least less restrictive options. Those have to be eliminated.

[R8407-379] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (O'Neill: 'What Patrick was just talking | 2016-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: And you have to eliminate other, least less restrictive options. Those have to be eliminated.
TEXT> Exactly. And so when they get into  when they went out of the district that, that that this was the necessary and, and I was a couple of these  so often sometimes the students there with the on the family situation I could easily easily see may we may have to relocate relocate many years. That does happen.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah. This is this is a great conversation. I think we're leaving Chris Bezos. We're leaving Chris Bezos out of it. I'd like to be able to, you know, involve

[R8407-384] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Mr. O'Neill. You are o | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brent Ferland: Okay.
TEXT> We're reimbursing the hospital for the cost of that employee. And that was one of those. Oh, don't worry, I'll budget in all budget and I'll budget it kind of it is in the budget for 1617. I can assure you that the first budget I did. Yeah. But yeah, that that's what's leading to that. Okay. So in the next page be my function. Basically you're going to come to the same total. We're just going to get there a different way. The reason I do it by location, by function and by object is, is to further identify, you know, and simplify so the board can understand where I'm coming from here. So so the first one is regular education okay. 240,005 60 remaining special education. 144188 upside down which I anticipate vocational. 13727 as we said, we didn't feel positioned at the tech center. Athletics is that athletic trainer again upside down, 25,000 because the athletic trainer is at the high school. That's also in athletics. That's why it's showing up in the total student supports. That's your nurses, your guidance,  your codas and other people that are providing services, speech and language.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: That's 38,000 positive total. Library media and technology is 26 positive. School board. You guys are doing a great job. 11701 thanks for your contribution. Appreciate that. Building level administration

[R8407-388] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yep.
TEXT> On your, maintenance, you say your parent overtime. Is it possible that, like, kids could go out and help and do community.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Be a.

[R8407-438] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Mr. O'Neill. You are o | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brent Ferland: So the the high school trip isn't part of this revenue.
TEXT> Only if they pay well. And what happens sometimes too is Perkins grant will pay to transport kids. So I so that's actually revenue to me because I send I build the Perkins grant I get money back. So so that's where that's where a lot of this revenue is coming from is the fact that we can we can build these grants for trips that were taken.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay.

[R8407-476] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Of years. And the special education director I just have one question about I get only seen him here once. Maybe. Is there a reason why he's not attending every time?
TEXT> I do not have all of the directors attend meetings. I don't have them attend meetings unless there is a need. Yeah. And I'm sensing there is a need to discuss out of this replacements and some of the challenges.  This challenge your, your, your, your expressing the shell is a national challenge. But as Brian said, it's not the fault of children who have learning challenges. It really is the fault of inadequate funding. Districts are expected to make up the difference. There is something called catastrophic aid. But in the state of New Hampshire there's a limitation as to how much you will be reimbursed after you spend so much. And also there is a delay when you were receiving. So there is an anticipated liability which causes the budget to get whacked. And it's not the child's or family's  openness.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And I don't want anyone to think that.

[R8407-479] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: But it's frustrating because we can't predict it.
TEXT> I'd just like to see how we can best make our special education services be in our city, and not be sending them out. My my feeling is this if you if if we can find every way possible and the child doesn't require going to. I've seen children that have been in wheelchairs in the schools, so I know that we can be adaptable to to a child with extreme disabilities.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We have children with in wheelchairs in our schools. Correct. We just just a week ago, we looked at a couple of pieces of property as a. Place where our

[R8407-481] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: in wheelchairs in our schools. Correct. We just just a week ago, we looked at a couple of pieces of property as a. Place where our students with certain needs or learning challenges would, would be housed, if you will. We continue to do that.
TEXT> I just don't want to hear any more that we can't handle it. So we got to send him away because your children that you're sending away, they're the ones that are thinking, well, if they. What part of do I belong to anything if I'm if I have to go out of the system.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We.

[R8407-494] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: If we would like to attend graduation, is there a way? Will we be invited or should we request? Do you think?
TEXT> I'm sure you will be more than welcomed. And I would like to. In fact, I would anticipate Pat Berry will invite all school board members, regardless of whether you have a child graduating or not.  So let me get back to you on that. I'm sure that's going to occur, frankly. Okay. I don't think I remember a high school graduation where school board members were not invited or part of it. Right. There are several policies here  to note. Policy  number G four, five, six and seven. We are recommending that the school board not become involved with this now, but rather have the high school and middle school address these topics as well as at the elementary as well, and didn't come back. So. But I just think it's important that we revisit different policies. And these were required. Number two through seven procedure for building rental. However sexual harassment and school violence and summer activities. Those are three policies we need to look at. I did make some recommended changes to the building of rental. There was a lot of interesting attention,  about Mr. Trump, his campaign and not having paid us. And the the thought was it was thousands of thousands of dollars because of the anticipation of what it would cost to rent our building.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But following our building rental policy, it was like $240, because that's what the policy says. So but the buildings are not to be, in my view, so expensive to

[R8407-504] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any further discussion shall. So this is for policy CPH and cph r policy gb a a and policy IHCA. All in favor first read I opposed. Great.
TEXT> If I may proceed. Brian policy JLCA physical examination of students. This is before you with a second read and hopefully approval.  Working with the school nurse, working with the athletic trainer. Working with the athletic director. Some minor changes, mostly providing a little flexibility with students who  do not have. Cannot get their physical because of insurance. Will not pay for it until a certain time, providing that flexibility.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So this is granting a child to go to school if they can't get their physical right away. Is that what you're saying?

[R8407-505] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: school nurse, working with the athletic trainer. Working with the athletic director. Some minor changes, mostly providing a little flexibility with students who do not have. Cannot get their physical because of insurance. Will not pay for it until a certain time, providing that flexibility.
TEXT> So this is granting a child to go to school if they can't get their physical right away. Is that what you're saying?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If if the if, if the athletic season begins on a certain date and the student does not have coverage to have the physical, it provides some flexibility. But no,

[R8407-506] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So this is granting a child to go to school if they can't get their physical right away. Is that what you're saying?
TEXT> If if the if, if the athletic season begins on a certain date and the student does not have coverage to have the physical, it provides some flexibility. But no, this there is there is no student who, if they don't have the adequate insurance or cannot get the funding for an exam, that will never be a denial. We will take care of that. We have a working relationship with the hospital, so money does not stop a student from being eligible to participate. Okay.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I move to.

[R8407-508] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination: Rapp, Pierc | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I move to.
TEXT> Just does a  question on that. We're talking with JLC, a right that talks about the pursuant to No Child Left. Are we still under the No Child Left Behind or has it been is there are we still working under that structure? Has that kind of been phased out?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Yeah, that's that's a great catch.

[R8407-511] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brent Ferland: I I'm.
TEXT> We do not know child Left Behind is gone.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: And I just wondering I'm not sure what. Yeah. We might want to just kind of update that wording there. However your wordsmiths do that.

[R8407-515] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: How do we want to do that. Do you need to take that out? I take that back.
TEXT> And I would like to take it if you could approve it. It's with the understanding that  No Child Left Behind will be redacted if that works for all of you. So we don't have to come back again in two weeks.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Take a motion to accept for second read and adoption. Would that change? Thank you. Have a second. Second. Any further discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed?

[R8407-533] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: smiling because, you know, I think the wisest thing. I'm looking at that cabinet over there and keeping, putting it, having a cart here. And we would all take our Chromebooks out of the cart when we got here. That way we wouldn't forget them.
TEXT> And that way if needed they could be used for student access as well. Just different logins.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: Yeah.

[R8433-5] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: We have our agenda in front of us. You have any changes? I do.
TEXT> On your at your place is, before nomination sheets, back to back. I'd like to add that to the agenda. I also would  like to change the agenda by  eliminating one of the not public Roman numeral 11. You have two RSA. You're not going to need to go into nonpublic for RSA 91 A three, two C only three to J. And  finally I would like to request, if I could add,  the board's awareness of an international student exchange program. We have currently one program we work with. Another one has approached the high school. They've been in business 30 years. I'd like to share that with you. So you're aware.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That under discussion, please call that I.

[R8433-19] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes from [165]; LeClai | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: Okay.
TEXT> We have no student up tonight. We'll go right to superintendent's report. Thank you.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And good evening. This Friday, June 3rd, the annual Stevens High School Pop concert will be held at Stephens High School beginning at 7:00. In the high school auditorium. I

[R8433-29] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: them know that, you know, it is a concern. It it is a concern. And I, I feel that that has been that obviously there is I just wanted to know if we've kind of contacted people, you know, the athletes to let them know.
TEXT> Yeah. Patrick, I learned this over the weekend as an FYI, I know the board and Paula Fitzgerald was notified. Also didn't know the reason for it. Certainly  when students are impacted by an adult issue. It's disappointing. What we learned was it was a miscommunication. The adults own it.  I talked with one of the coaches last night. I'm going to have another conversation. I spoke with Paula Fitzgerald this afternoon. I just want to gather some details. And then  I didn't want to step in front of the coaches or step in front of the athletic director, but I'm still in in the gathering aspect. I, I, I did not respond yet because I'm not done.  I'm not necessarily looking for something other than clarity, excuse me clarity as to what happened, and I agree. I, the middle school students are no different than our high school students. They deserve  to have that kind of, that opportunity to participate. It's unfortunate that this occurred is not acceptable. It's a human error. But my goal is what happened then have the parents and the students contacted and put something in place where that can be avoided?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And, well, it certainly is something that happened, and it's certainly something that it's not what we just shrug off. But I haven't responded yet because I'm not done with

[R8433-48] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: We I called for tripping. Thank you. Yep. I'm. Discussion. Class of 2016.
TEXT> This. This topic has been  on the agenda for for several months as a future meeting. And if you recall earlier in the year, I was very interested in talking about,  the importance of starting at the middle school level, being sure that students understand what opportunities  and resources are available so they don't start thinking about after high school when they're juniors or seniors. And in many homes that takes place starting at the elementary. But I think on an annual event, I think it'd be important to have a discussion and and to be nester and Pat Barry here this evening to talk about the class of 2016 and what are their plans after graduation. And that isn't measured by who's going to a four year college or who's going to work, but rather  where are we with our graduates? What are their future plans and how are we  providing that type of information over time? Again, even pre high school. So they know they have different pathways to consider  long before they approach,  the podium to receive their high school diploma. So I want to welcome Ben Nester and Pat Berry.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Thank you.

[R8433-60] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Ben Nester: Not that I'm not that I'm aware. No.
TEXT> They've said a couple of days for trainings for guidance counselors on looking at the data over the summer, and I think the state is going to use those dates as opportunities for sharing what they have at that point in time. But I think it's not until end of July, the first training session, for how to take the data that they're going to provide and then use it and read it. And so but we had thought that what they were going to give us on May 18th was the kind of thing that we would get from kneecap when kneecap came out. And it would show us, in comparison to all other juniors around the state, perhaps even the country, and that just all we got was and the students even got it via text messages, I think, or on their, on their phones as early as May 14th. And so we have all of their scores, but we don't know what that means. Comparatively.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thanks.

[R8433-62] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thanks.
TEXT> So stay stay tuned for that. The next item. You know, I remember we spoke earlier or I spoke here earlier this year and we, you know, we introduced the guidance counselors and we talked a bit about, you know, what we can do, what we can improve on in terms of, you know, helping Stephen's students be more prepared for college or at least be more aware of  of the options that are out there. So, so Pat and I asked the guidance department to just prepare a couple of bullet points. You know, the hotline, some of the action steps that were taken this year. And and you can see those there. I'm not going to read through them. I'll hit a few high points. And these are these are more formal actions events,  activities. This doesn't include the the one on one consult that guidance counselors do on a regular basis with students on their caseload.  A couple of things I'd like to point out,  is that  bullet point number three from the top? We had a college fair  earlier this year. We had, I would say around 2020, plus colleges from around the state come and set up tables in the gymnasium, and then students were able to come cycle through,  pick up information, ask questions and, and, you know, get a sense of colleges that are out there.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And there's these were primarily New Hampshire colleges. The other the other big event was more recent, May 27th, 20 plus juniors took a bus down to Keene State and

[R8433-65] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: forward to that conversation continuing. So Ben, thank you. And please share my my thoughts to you, our colleagues. Because if the work in progress. But I'm optimistic with the caliber of people we have and the investment that we're going to see this expanding.
TEXT> I just had one question about your 80 students took the test. Was it a survey that all of the seniors were required to take, or was it just participating? By asking, I mean the 38 gather?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And so the challenge, in something like this is students who are in the Owls program, which is housed upstairs here. Students who are absent on any given day when

[R8433-66] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I just had one question about your 80 students took the test. Was it a survey that all of the seniors were required to take, or was it just participating? By asking, I mean the 38 gather?
TEXT> And so the challenge, in something like this is students who are in the Owls program, which is housed upstairs here.  Students who are absent on any given day when a survey like this is disseminated,  they they're just not available to take it. So was it required of all seniors? No. Did we have a senior class meeting? And the vast majority of them were there and it wasn't available. Just at that meeting we had it left open, you know, with miss and also in the guidance office for them to take it. Afterwards. But we just it's very difficult for us to access every single student in a class, not just for a survey, but it goes to the city. You know, we only had 90.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: About 100.

[R8433-70] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So we have 38 seniors that we don't know what they're doing pretty much.
TEXT> Well, we know what they're doing in. Because on on the program,  when you get the graduation program, you're going to see every student and their whereabouts there. It just didn't come through this particular survey. So there's other means that we're gathering that information. But yeah, they're not falling completely through the cracks.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Just a quick question. Yeah. Has there been any like, military is that been recruiters that that path explored at all with the.

[R8433-75] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: during lunch. And but this year, oddly enough, we don't have a single graduating senior going into the military, which is the first time since, I think nine over 11 that that's been the case. But, but yeah, we've we've really opened up access to.
TEXT> I was just curious about, when the, the students are identified, like the joining the workforce. What that do we have an idea of what what that means like kind of imagine that can be a broad spectrum.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I don't know the verbiage in the survey, but but, I believe it essentially means that those students, those are students that did not choose to go on to a

[R8433-76] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I was just curious about, when the, the students are identified, like the joining the workforce. What that do we have an idea of what what that means like kind of imagine that can be a broad spectrum.
TEXT> I don't know the verbiage in the survey, but but,  I believe it essentially means that those students, those are students that did not choose to go on to a college.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And so you're. You're right. It's a broad it can be anything from I'm hoping to get a job after I graduate to I've had this job for the last

[R8433-81] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: be valuable. Because I, a good chunk of those kids are going to be students coming out of the tech center who have their HVAC certification, or are you going to go be great off into being electricians? So absolutely, that would be valuable information.
TEXT> I certainly, if I may, Brian, I this conversation I never intended that workforce is like the leftovers. There's nothing wrong with the workforce as as you just heard. I just want to be sure that students are aware of their opportunities, not that workforce means you're you've sort of missed the boat. Not in the slightest, not in the slice for the reasons that just been cited. I mean, especially with some of the trades and the need for for  good, you know, skilled men and women in the trades, great opportunities in this part of the of of our country.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And one of the things on this sheet, I think to me, the the number that I am most proud of and I say I because, you know, the guidance

[R8433-86] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: you know, etc., etc. but those were the only two choices. But I have heard at the summer conference last summer, Commissioner Barry did say that she was open to considering the Act and other options moving forward, so that they might look into that.
TEXT> As well. The, the,  certainly a lot of the, this aggregate, the PSAT, provides a lot of disaggregated data also has the interest inventory in it. So and then the Act does as well. So that's what I was wondering about that. So the the  other question I have is as far as Catch the Wave goes, is that it's great that there are 14 kids that want to do that. I'm just wondering how will they do that with the a B schedule? How is that possible?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, you know, it's in some ways not any more challenging than it was by in the 4x4, because your college schedule is going to be very different from our

[R8433-87] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: the the other question I have is as far as Catch the Wave goes, is that it's great that there are 14 kids that want to do that. I'm just wondering how will they do that with the a B schedule? How is that possible?
TEXT> Well, you know, it's in some ways not any more challenging than it was by in the 4x4, because your college schedule is going to be very different from our high school schedule, regardless of what it is. And so it's taking a look at what they offer and saying, how can I fit this in? Is this something that I can take after school? Does it fit right into between first block, second block? The challenge is you're right. Instead of knowing that I've got this class at this time every day for at least a semester, I have to. I have to look at a block. So every single day over two different classes. So exactly, the reality is that most of the time students have to choose after 205 at night or weekends to take college courses.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's too.

[R8433-98] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes from [165]; LeClai | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: Is paper and pencil?
TEXT> No. Is there a reason why it's not done electronically so that kids could do it at home or.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It's a good question.

[R8433-100] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: It's a good question.
TEXT> I don't know if it's just,  past practice to do it. Paper and pencil and and and we should move. I mean, we've done a lot of surveys this year.  Staff and students that we've done on using Google Docs or, you know, on Google Platform. And that's a slicker way to do it. Absolutely. So, I mean.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Way to help capture some more. Yeah.

[R8433-107] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: both ways and then we said if you weren't there that day or whatever to do it electronically, we just I think we also were wary that we didn't want to get people doing multiple surveys. I think there's definitely a way to do that.
TEXT> And I think we're going to move more in that direction next year now that students are going to have their own email.  Yeah, as well, which is exciting. You know, it's it's going to bring us into the next, the next age, so to speak. Yeah. So yeah.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Anything else? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. So that kind of the catch the wave update.

[R8433-136] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: I mean.
TEXT> However, what happens if it breaks? I mean, what happens if we let another group of people use it, or even students and they accidentally drop it? You're one person out of Chrome book. I'm I'm just trying to look at both sides of it. I'm I get the $0.24 of paper, which is pretty expensive. So it seems logical to be in the chrome. However,  our our information going to be on there and then somebody else could access that or.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's all a unique login.

[R8433-149] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: You know what?
TEXT> We use Chromebooks quite widely now in the district with children.  They're very cost effective. They're easily managed.  There are  all able to be managed remotely  by the tech department so they can,  lock them, unlock them, do wipe them clean,  reap, populate them with information, whatever you need to do.  They're they're actually one of the most easily managed devices, one of the most durable devices, one of the cheapest devices we have. And which is why we are increasing the numbers of them across the district to use with children.  But everything, as Brian mentioned, is tied directly to your account. So,  it all of the work that we're doing currently in the district is through Google.  Every administrator, every teacher,  has a Google account. And so the security pieces of it are certainly in place for the information access.
NEXT> Chris: The tricky thing with them is they're very difficult to print from. So it's not like you can do a file drop print. There is a way to do it,

[R8433-175] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: We maximize every penny.
TEXT> But I if I may, Brian, just to bring closure to this, I want to share what, Pat Barry explained to me. We had some administrators from a scenic.  At Stevens High School a few days ago, and they commented not only on the appearance of the school and the students, but also on the technology. Quite impressed by the technology. And, Frank, you've been around the track a few years with technology in our district, and you remember five years ago. So with the. Yeah, that's absolutely right. With the support of the taxpayers and the board.  We students are benefiting.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay, so all in favor.

