[R9470-823] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: They.
TEXT> Are they all working with students?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are they all. Are they part of students? IEP. So in other words, do these students have goals in their IEP which necessitates either related services with a para or

[R9470-824] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: Are they all working with students?
TEXT> Are they all. Are they part of students? IEP. So in other words, do these students have goals in their IEP which necessitates either related services with a para or specialized specialized instruction with the parent that's reimbursable under Medicare?
NEXT> Chris Irish: When I be curious, do we have any pairs that are non-student related pairs? I don't know how it works in New Hampshire over here, but like I said, I

[R9470-825] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are they all. Are they part of students? IEP. So in other words, do these students have goals in their IEP which necessitates either related services with a para or specialized specialized instruction with the parent that's reimbursable under Medicare?
TEXT> When I be curious, do we have any pairs that are non-student related pairs?  I don't know how it works in New Hampshire over here, but like I said, I was a parent and I had nothing to do with students, but I was technically fell under the.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Paris.

[R9470-834] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: That's what I mean. I'm just curious, are we doing the same thing? Could we? You know, it's a good question. It may mean nothing.
TEXT> When you look at that budget. I mean, one of the first things that struck me last year when Paulette gave the presentation with the student handbook and it listed on the front cover all of the staff at the middle school, I could not believe how many pairs there were. I couldn't believe it.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Just middle school alone is almost $300,000 in Paris.

[R9470-890] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: For 53.
TEXT> That could be three kids.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That could be three. That could be three kids. Yes, only three kids.

[R9470-891] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: That could be three kids.
TEXT> That could be three. That could be three kids. Yes, only three kids.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And look at what it's proposed for the 18 budget.

[R9470-898] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: thing that I don't understand is, is is this, the transportation. So, for example, the budget said it was going to cost $53,000 to get all of these children on the 1617 budget. The actual came in at 82,000. So that's a really that's $20,000.
TEXT> One kid, one kid moved into the district.
NEXT> Chris Irish: And we're not going to have a lot of say in any of that money, though. That's the same.

[R9470-1144] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: specific him to get back. It'll be hey, this is what we want to talk about when you come to see us. All right? We're still in a CMS, which has been great. What else we got? Anything else? We got a lot under CMS.
TEXT> Student.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Transportation Services. 2700 years later. That one.

[R9470-1150] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Frank Sprague: Talking about.
TEXT> Just said function student Transportation Services 2700, and it shows 9000 in the budget, but zero money was used anywhere.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So what's what's the 25 dot. What?

[R9470-1287] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: And sometimes the budget freeze. That's where the surplus comes from too. So it's a balancing act, though in fairness there's really no but.
TEXT> We'll get we'll get notifications. You know I've there have been a number of years where we get told  these costs are,  you know, and I hate to keep saying it, but special Ed we'll get told special Ed costs are  rising. We have we have, you know, five kids that came into the district and, you know, this is happening. So we have all this money that we need to deal with. We need to find it somewhere. We realize our, you know, Mike or, you know, Tim before him or Alan Damon before him. They'd say, oh, time out. This is getting out of hand. We need to stop spending because we're going to be over budget because of these costs.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah. And that happens early in the year. I've learned that to it. It happens way before the end of the year. So you could actually be overthinking it and

[R9470-1317] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: It's not enough to bus driver training. I don't care what the.
TEXT> Kids get write ups every other week.
NEXT> Chris Irish: But you know, someone said it. The class I took it. You know they're responsible for the the our kids lives every and and for what they get paid and

[R9470-1346] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-11-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Just as much responsibility.
TEXT> He's got 30 kids, 40 more kids on a bus at any  moment.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But what are they doing when they're not driving the bus?

[R9470-1738] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2017-11-29
PREV> Chris Irish: I highlighted sped salaries and I highlighted Sped salaries already.
TEXT> So what's going on with student transportation services for SRB RTC. That's going to Waylon 135,705 135.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: For the increase of 3500.

[R9470-1798] Unidentified | Unidentified - asks about student loan repayment contract benefit | 2017-11-29
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah.
TEXT> It's part of the contract. Student loan repayment. Is that something that certain.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: There are certain contracts have certain benefits added in. Yes.

[R9495-13] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Opposed?
TEXT> Now stand. I missed that meeting. So, student rep report.
NEXT> Lexi: Here's a little report from Stevens. Actually, it's not little. Pretty lengthy. So on Friday, December 1st, which was last Friday, the Stevens High School National Honor Society and the

[R9495-14] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Now stand. I missed that meeting. So, student rep report.
TEXT> Here's a little report from Stevens. Actually, it's not little. Pretty lengthy. So on Friday, December 1st, which was last Friday, the Stevens High School National Honor Society and the fine arts program at Stevens hosted the annual talent show. This year we called the S factor, kind of like the X factor, but not like Stevens.  So we had over ten abs ranging from dancing to singing to reading poetry. It was a great night with a nice turnout. Thank you to all of the performance performers and their friends and family for making this fundraiser success. All proceeds collected from this fundraiser will be distributed between the Fine Arts Program and the National Honor Society. Also on Friday, December 1st was  I applied day. Seniors, myself included, were given the opportunity to apply to colleges using the Common App with the help of our guidance counselors, which Miss Rimes is here. I don't know if any of the other ones are here. And other advisors from the HHEAF, which is the New Hampshire Higher Education Assistance Foundation. We were, we were able to use a fee waiver that applied to all of New Hampshire colleges or universities, so we didn't have to pay for the application fee that day. As a total 42 students sent out applications, 109 applications were submitted that this is a huge deal.
NEXT> Lexi: It's a big record. Concerning that, like last year, there was only 20 students and only 43 applications sent out. So congratulations and good luck to my fellow classmates who

[R9495-15] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: to use a fee waiver that applied to all of New Hampshire colleges or universities, so we didn't have to pay for the application fee that day. As a total 42 students sent out applications, 109 applications were submitted that this is a huge deal.
TEXT> It's a big record.  Concerning that, like  last year, there was only 20 students and only 43 applications sent out. So congratulations and good luck to my fellow classmates who participated in this event or have already sent out applications prior to this day. Those who came to help us with this process from  the New England yeah. New Hampshire Higher Education Assistance Foundation  commended us on how nice and engage  students where along with our self efficiency. They also appreciated all of the organization that was put along into this event. They also said that as a school, we were very impressive.  I applied to six New Hampshire schools that day, just myself. And each time that I hit the submit button on the Common App, I had to have my guidance counselor, Miss Rimes, come over and, like, give me a pep talk before each one, because it was pretty. It was pretty daunting. But, we were all really excited that day. It was just kind of like a big weight lifted off our shoulders, kind of like, yeah, we can do this. And it's okay having people help us. It's totally fine. So tomorrow, which is Thursday, December 7th, is the Stevens High School band inquire Windsor winter concert.
NEXT> Lexi: The concert band, concert choir, jazz band, chamber ensembles, Stephen Ayers and Cardinal Voices will be performing in the Stevens High School auditorium at 7:00 p m. Admission is free

[R9495-20] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: from all across America. This event will continue as the year progresses. That just. Oh, that just touched my heart. When I read that email, I was like, I had to took all of me to not burst out in tears in the library today.
TEXT> The Maple Avenue PTO Penguin Plunge store has opened this week. This store gives the students  the ability to purchase gifts for family members, friends, or even teachers. Most gifts are under a dollar, so it's a perfect place for the little ones to shop. On Wednesday, December 20th, the second year music students at Maple Avenue will host their annual holiday concert at 6:00. Now. Preschool update. Before this meeting, Miss Edwards Mision Edwards, she emailed me and asked me to come to the open house of the sensory room. And if none of you if I. If no one has been in there yet, I highly recommend it because I want one for the high school, like yesterday. So I'm just going to get a little update on that. So as you first walk in, there's little cubby spaces to store coats and shoes. There's a roller. There's this big purple roller. It kind of looks like an old fashioned pear curler  to roll around in. There's a quiet tent with special lights to help them calm. There's a little sensory toys inside.  There's a compression canoe which you sit in, and it just kind of compresses you and makes you feel like you're in this big bear hug.
NEXT> Lexi: There's bubble lights with a mirror, and that helps to visually calm this. Kids. There's a crash pad mat, so if they just want to throw themselves onto the floor,

[R9495-21] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: around in. There's a quiet tent with special lights to help them calm. There's a little sensory toys inside. There's a compression canoe which you sit in, and it just kind of compresses you and makes you feel like you're in this big bear hug.
TEXT> There's bubble lights with a mirror, and that helps to visually calm this. Kids. There's a crash pad mat, so if they just want to throw themselves onto the floor, it's totally fine because the entire floor is covered in mats. You know, there's little sitting balls for small orange balls for the little kids to sit and bounce on. And then there's one big ball for the teachers to have fun, too, because, you know, your big kid to,  there's common music and serene lights and the,  calm music and the serene lights both help with, calming all the senses as you go into the room.  Like I've told a few people I've had, I had a really rough day today. Just been so stressed out and, like, once I walked into that room, it was just kind of, like, are, like, all the stress is gone. It gives a better. It gives them a better sense of their self and others. It kind of gives them the ability to think, okay, what do I need right now? Do I need quiet time?
NEXT> Lexi: Do I need to go into the quiet tent and calm down? And that's that. That's really awesome. So a sports update last night, Tuesday, December 5th, the girls varsity

[R9495-26] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Referring to your in your packet, my superintendents report.  We have made an effort to  increase the teacher vacancy coverage by establishing  and improving our ability to provide substitutes and also increase the compensation of substitutes, while reducing the overall cost of teacher substitution rates. Not rates per se, but the cost to actually pay by increasing the compensation. And I hope the documentation in your packet of four pages explains the intent behind this. Substitutes are very, very important. Teacher absent team is a serious matter, and we want to minimize the absenteeism with students by having adequate substitute coverage and quality substitute coverage. So we hope increasing the hourly rate and being able to have a guarantee of a certain number of substitutes available will help us to that end.  Also, there's been some discussion regarding  prior years of Stephens High School failure rate going from 2007 to 2012, and the question came up, well, what's been happening since then? And so you have before you a ten year analysis of the Stephens High School failure ratings from 2007 to 2017. But the landscape has been changing a different type of grading from letter grade to base. So we're not exactly comparing apples to apples, but I hope this provides somewhat of an overview as to what was happening during the 20 1516 school year with the A B schedule, because the question was.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Compare the A, B schedule of 1516 to the block schedule of prior years. I will share with you. I apply day the peer outreach program and the regional compare

[R9495-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: type of grading from letter grade to base. So we're not exactly comparing apples to apples, but I hope this provides somewhat of an overview as to what was happening during the 20 1516 school year with the A B schedule, because the question was.
TEXT> Compare the A, B schedule of 1516 to the block schedule of prior years.  I will share with you. I apply day the peer outreach program and the regional compare regional career pathway fair. Is already spoken to. So thank you Lexi.  I would like so  also is going to include in your packet information about the Claremont tax rate. But Ryan McNutt city manager is here tonight. And I know he's going to be discussing, among other things, the Claremont tax rate, the history as well as  how the city is dealing with that challenge last night. I'm very pleased to tell you that  the Claremont Middle School public Forum  took place. I think there are approximately 80 staff and parents involved with  this opportunity to talk about Claremont Middle School and to, in essence, to have an opportunity to discuss  what's it like being at Claremont Middle School. How do we feel it, Claremont Middle School, and how can we work together as a community staff, parents  and students to  improve our school? And I believe that this was a wonderful step toward the moving, taking a good school and making it toward a grade school.  It was very clear that the staff and students and parents are proud of Claremont Middle School, but it's also a parent that there are some issues.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the good news is they're talking about it in a proactive and productive way. And so information from this forum is going to be publicized, and it will be

[R9495-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: money, 7400 or less for a family of four, the concern about Claremont is simply that 70% of the students who apply for the voucher will likely come from comparatively poor property, poor communities that would be most impacted by a loss of state funding.
TEXT> The stabilization grant intended to protect those districts from catastrophic funding losses that this would be, would cost the state at least $31 million in new spending in the next five years. That's not going to happen. So, in essence, there is a serious possibility that there would be a drawdown of funding that normally would go to the Claremont School District and other school districts that would be dispersed to  families who are eligible for this fund. And so I share this with you because  of the final. Final comment Claremont like community depend on dollars raised through local taxes and state funding due to lower than average equalized valuation per pupil, lower than average property valuations, meaning a lower ability to raise property funds. We know that. So this voucher program could be very detrimental for the communities like Claremont. So I share this with you. Not to say the sky is falling, but when we talk about budget, we can't assume that prior state funds that have been dwindling, even as we go through budget after budget, may even continue to draw down. If this is approved, it is expected to pass next year.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's the projection. Unless there is quite a bit of lobbying, could there are more people who will benefit than people who live in communities that would be greatly impacted.

[R9495-40] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: And then Frank.
TEXT> When you read off the criteria, said tutoring would be part of the funding. So can you explain to me that if a child stays in the Claremont School District School and they use this money for tutoring, wouldn't that still be funding into the school where.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: No.

[R9495-45] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> Occurs in the Claremont School District by the Claremont School District is not the tutoring they're talking about. They're talking about private schools, parochial schools, homeschooling children who live in Claremont, who attend a private school, parochial school, monastery school,  or our homeschooled, but not a school,  not a student who was enrolled in the Claremont School District who receives tutoring.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's how.

[R9495-51] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> It's for students that are being homeschooled.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's the spirit of it. Private tutoring basically. Yeah, I know you're thinking it.

[R9495-61] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: their community. And what this the effect it has on them. So I guess we have a big crowd here. So make sure that we are putting pressure on our representatives to do what benefits us and not the party with which they have aligned.
TEXT> Yes, this is a challenging topic, if I may,  Brian, because the president of the United States, the governor of New Hampshire, the federal secretary of Education, the New Hampshire Department of Education commissioner are all in support of school choice. And this is an option of school choice. I believe that parents have the right and should have the right to decide how their child will be educated, where their child will be educated. The problem with this, in my view, is that it draws down funding for a larger mass of children attending public education and where you have financially strapped communities where there's greater chance of eligibility. It's sort of the perfect storm. So I don't I believe it's more of a national move toward choice.  And I've heard that I've heard that in New Hampshire. I've heard a New Hampshire senator say New Hampshire public schools are failing. Therefore, let's  offer something better.  And I sat with probably another 40 or 50 superintendent of schools, and we had an interesting discussion about that. But the fact is, there is a movement toward this initiative. And there was an individual on one party side, Frank, that recently hopped over that allowed this to go forward. So the it's not over yet, but we have to be active and we and we have to be able to express our, our voice  on this matter in Concord before the board's voted on.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9495-88] Nate | Associate business administrator and HR director, SAU 6 (first name on | 2017-12-06
PREV> Nate: certainly all the other circumstances that surround it. So at the end of the day, by stating having folks come forward and, and sign up for a different commitment level, it would allow us to cover those gaps and fix that supply and demand problem.
TEXT> We know how many of each bracket, how many 90 day employees. Ideally, we would hire, how many 45 day employees we would hire.  And then anyone who's not, who cannot commit to those two brackets, can commit to a lower bracket for a little lower rate. So, the daily rates have been $65 to $75 based on your qualifications. So we we've essentially raised those.  So the first bracket is it's an hourly rate based on a school day, and we know it can fluctuate based on preparing for a class or staying after with a student. That's why I  favored the hourly rate. So that way we could pay folks for the extra time they'd be spending necessary. It also includes a two hour minimum. So if you come in and and you get, you find out that your assignment there wasn't assignment because something occurred or that it was a shorter assignment anticipated. We'll pay a minimum two day,  two hours. Sorry. And versus what we do now, which is you could come in on be asked to leave and get paid a half day. So that presented some cost savings. So we're recognizing the fact that you've taken the effort. We're going to pay you for it. But it's going to be a more practical level. So a bunch of moving parts there. But at the end of the day,  the goal and the way the model is being executed is to accomplish a few things.
NEXT> Nate: One is to cover those vacancies. As I said, we don't believe we'll hit 100%, but my goal is to go from 60% overall coverage, which is a little different

[R9495-135] Unidentified | Music director, Stevens High School (student rep refers to her as ASR  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Hey, we'll move on to citizens comments.
TEXT> Music director Stevens high school.  I forgot to send all my stuff in, and I forget if I put this in other stuff anyway. We've had 12 band students and 12 choir students selected for the Valley Honors Music Festival, which is in January.  And it's held down at high school. It's like six different high schools submit their best kids, and then they form a giant honors band, Giant Honors Choir. They're rehearsed for two days,  and then they put on a concert.  So, yeah, it's a cool honor, and it should be really fun. There's also the All-State Music Festival, which many of you hear of,  athletes getting chosen for all state. This is the same exact thing.  But maybe harder to get into because you're not competing division wise. You're competing with everybody from every school in the entire state.  We had four students audition and make it into that, two in the mixed choir, one in the treble choir, and one scored high enough to make it into the band. And the honors brass  choir on trumpet.  So those are super cool things. That one's in April.
NEXT> Unidentified: Then also to reiterate, Lexie's the concert is tomorrow. For anybody listening, it's free. Steven. Sasquatch 7 p.m.. It's going to be super fun. Greatly appreciate. Yeah. We also have

[R9495-140] Amanda Plummer Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as stated at mic) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: a half long. We have to put in an hour and a half concert into four concerts that last 45 minutes. So it's a lot of practicing and I'm really excited about it too. So sorry. So I'd like to address all of you today.
TEXT> About something. My name is Amanda Plummer Harrell and Sabrina Harrell. We are parents of bluff students. We live in Claremont. We're going to address you about something that happened to my daughter at school yesterday.  I was deeply saddened and extremely angered by what occurred.  There was a field trip for the bluff students, and,  I packed my daughter a lunch like I do. Any other time she goes on a field trip. Except that when she got home, she told me that her drink was taken and she was not allowed to take it to school because it was deemed too sugary. Mind you, it was a brisk lemon tea.  I have spoken with the principal and the teacher, and actually one of the comments that was given to me was that they would like to consider what they could do to search school lunches. That angered me even more as a parent.  My main concern is that how dare they take my child's food or drink from her without consulting me? I don't care if I packed her a bag of candy. You do not take things from my child that I purchase with my money that I worked for, and that put me over the edge.
NEXT> Amanda Plummer Harrell: I was furious, and while I did speak with the principal and he did assure me that there will be no searching of the lunches, which did calm me quite

[R9495-141] Amanda Plummer Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as stated at mic) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Amanda Plummer Harrell: child's food or drink from her without consulting me? I don't care if I packed her a bag of candy. You do not take things from my child that I purchase with my money that I worked for, and that put me over the edge.
TEXT> I was furious, and while I did speak with the principal and he did assure me that there will be no searching of the lunches, which did calm me quite a bit. I am still angered that a teacher felt that it was her right to take my child's drink.  She said that it was too sugary. I said, well, I could have sent her with a soda. I didn't. I sent her with a brisk tea. That one liter brisk tea had a quarter of the amount of sugar and caffeine that a 12 ounce Mountain Dew has in it. And I did my research. I was told that the wellness policy allows them to make that judgment. That is not true. Sabrina and I  spent all night last night and a good part of today researching this and trying to find  other policies that would support what this teacher said, and I could not. And even the principal admitted that the policy did not, in any fashion, tell you or tell us what we could or could not provide. And, Sabrina.
NEXT> Sabrina Harrell: The wellness policy, as I read it, states what is acceptable for the school to provide their children or the children of the school for food and drink. It does

[R9495-147] Amanda Plummer Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as stated at mic) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Sabrina Harrell: By the foot fruit rollups.
TEXT> Every day. So every day. Why was my child picked on? You know why? Why was my daughter's drink taken? Now, granted, I will give them, you know, a little bit of credit. They did provide her with milk and juice on this field trip that they were gone all day. Two milks and a juice is what I was told. But why wasn't I called? Why? Why was. Why did a teacher feel that it was her right to take my child's drink?
NEXT> Sabrina Harrell: And that's unacceptable. To also mention that a conversation that had taken place as teacher said that she was going to draft something to send home with children's parents, in

[R9495-148] Sabrina Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as introduced by Amanda Pl | 2017-12-06
PREV> Amanda Plummer Harrell: and juice on this field trip that they were gone all day. Two milks and a juice is what I was told. But why wasn't I called? Why? Why was. Why did a teacher feel that it was her right to take my child's drink?
TEXT> And that's unacceptable. To also  mention that a conversation that had taken place as teacher said that she was going to draft something to send home with children's parents,  in regards to what she felt was appropriate or inappropriate for parents to send their kids to school with food and drink, that's acceptable.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If they if I was very much like the opportunity to, investigate this matter. Yes, sir. To contact you personally and to report back publicly to the school board. We've

[R9495-160] Sabrina Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as introduced by Amanda Pl | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: My daughter goes to school every day with roll ups. I'm just saying.
TEXT> You  know, that's that's absolutely perfectly fine. It's just the fact of this child is being picked on for something that was sugary and nobody else is. Making sure.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you guys for coming. Yeah. Great.

[R9495-172] Tom Rock | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: To cut it.
TEXT> Your proposal to cut the budget so you can have a 171  cut in the tax rate for $127,000, average assessed home in Claremont. It's two bucks a week. I'm sure somebody could give up a cup of coffee at Dunkin Donuts for that. So, that's pretty much what I would ask that you do is to make sure that the student comes first.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you, thank you.

[R9495-174] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (Speaker 27 attribution by elimination a | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Mr. Chairman. Can we have any students that want to speak come up first before just an interest of time for them. They don't stay too long.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I didn't see any, okay?

[R9495-177] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And I just wanted to.
TEXT> We're not going to have a conversation. We're going to let people speak. Are there any students that want to speak up?
NEXT> Lexi: I think I'm the only student here, but no.

[R9495-178] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: We're not going to have a conversation. We're going to let people speak. Are there any students that want to speak up?
TEXT> I think I'm the only student here, but no.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: All right.

[R9495-183] Steve | Public commenter, Francis Street (first name as stated; later thanked  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Steve: and I in a spray bottle. And they have recommendation on inhalation. I find that grossly neglectful. And I ask the school board to investigate this further beyond what the superintendent has done. And I would like to know what the results are of that.
TEXT> I can provide more information and contact information to me directly, but to get back to the bigger business on hand, which is the budget, we're focusing on lots of things as far as raw numbers, but there's a key fact, and I honestly think that people need to pay attention to this. There are tons of students going  to college getting themselves into hundreds of thousands of dollars of debt, not able to find a job. With that said, I think people need to look seriously at trying to help fund the building trades part of this center that we're in tonight. Being in the flooring industry, knowing electricians and builders, there is a massive labor shortage. Pretty soon you're going to be paying me more to install flooring than you'd pay a heart surgeon. And that's where I'd like people to think tonight. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, Mr. Mirsky.

[R9495-189] Larissa Cahill | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens High School staff and parent (ASR 'L | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: are difficult things to ask. So I just ask for your thoughtful deliberation as you go through this and really think through the process of what it takes to make student outcomes what they need to be here in Claremont. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Larissa Cahill, Ward two. And I want to echo what Mr. said about your service here. It's really the height of citizenship and civic responsibility to serve on a board. And I want to address you today as a citizen, as a parent of two children, one who has graduated from Stevens High School, the other who is about to graduate this year. And,  I feel as though with the cuts that I'm becoming aware of that are on the chopping block that had those programs not been at Stevens High School when my daughter was about to enter high school, we would be looking elsewhere in terms of where we would be. In fact, at the time that my daughter was going to high school, we lived in a town in Vermont that was had school choice. And so we had some decisions. And my daughter made a  a chart, if you will, of all of the schools that she had in this area that she could choose from and some that are big budget schools, some that were private schools that she had the opportunity to go to, she chose Stevens High School, and not because I worked there.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: I was on the cons list of the con or the pros and cons, because who wants to know where your mom works, right? But there was a program that

[R9495-191] Larissa Cahill | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens High School staff and parent (ASR 'L | 2017-12-06
PREV> Larissa Cahill: that talent doesn't just simply go into the wind, it goes to other communities that get to benefit from what we once had. That's what's bothersome to me about it. And so I'm, I'm passionate about it because it's heartbreaking to me as an educator.
TEXT> It's heartbreaking to me as a community member because I feel like I've given everything I've got to this community for the last 14 years, and I'm not ready to give up on it. But there are positions and human beings and people attached to these cuts that I'm looking at that I think are so talented and wonderful. It would essentially be like throwing away a winning lottery ticket with as clutter to get rid of these people in our district, and it's bothersome to me, Emotional if you start crying. So and I apologize, I, I've worked at Stevens High School and I'm a parent of Stevens students, and prior to this I worked in Southern California and I lived in a beach city. And I have students that think I'm nuts, that I want to be here in Claremont, New Hampshire with them other than living in Southern California. And I tell them all of the time that it's because and I prefer them to be perfectly honest, I prefer New Englanders. I prefer folks from New Hampshire because I tell them they're solid, they're from granite, they're salt of the earth people, and they deserve quality education. Their education shouldn't be dictated by their zip code.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: And so while you consider this really important work, I just felt as though I would be remiss if I didn't come up here and say something. One of my

[R9495-200] Ron Perry | Public commenter | 2017-12-06
PREV> Ron Perry: ourselves. And, I think it's it's a very hard thing to take away from children because we all want the best for our kids. We all really, truly do. If you don't know, the average income, family home median income in Claremont is only $34,000.
TEXT> Most of the teachers are making about 44. So just take care of your salaries and slash your ten. And that's your average family income in Claremont. So when you're talking about budget, you know, taking away budgets and adding to budgets, just be fruitful of other people in this town. You know, many poor people just don't show up. Many people don't like talking to public. I don't like talking in public.  It's it it's something that has to be addressed. We have too many expenses for a shrinking community. We've had  our enrollments have been slashed. Not just for last, you know, 5 or 10 years there have been slashed for the last 30 years, I've enrollments been going down. We used to have 900 kids in Stevens High School at one point. And when these buildings cost a lot of money to run, energy and efficiency, maintenance, upkeep, roofs,  plumbing, electrical, the technical part, it all adds up. You have three, three elementary buildings, three things you have to service and expense. It would be worth considering, especially if 193 passes to consolidating these elementary schools into one building. Maybe going back to the state because we turned down the $17 million, in my eyes, foolishly.
NEXT> Ron Perry: But we turned down that $17 million and maybe worth going back to the state and asking them for that back in another format. It's it's it's maybe a long

[R9495-282] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, City of Claremont | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: We can keep it up.
TEXT> I just want to close with saying, if you'll indulge me, that I've had the opportunity. I've been invited in to the school, the Stevens High School. It's a beautiful school. Absolutely. You guys have done a great job with the renovation. I know the you know, this renovation happened a couple of years ago. I would have you could have told me it happened yesterday. The school is well maintained. It's clean, it's respected by the students. You know, just adding some perspective. Some of the communities that I've come from would be envious  of how you've maintained and the fidelity that you've put towards your investments. Again, I know perception is king, and I'm just trying to add perspective, but folks that have not been to some of some inner city schools, I mean, the Claremont School System. I can speak from experience, is in, I think, very good condition. It has extremely caring and well-meaning and  educated staff and an administration. I meet with Middleton every Thursday morning. The schools have a lot of assets to build upon. The schools cost a lot, and I know there's particular reasons for that, and it's going to be very difficult, I think, to address those particular cost drivers. But pleas from and hearing it from a new person into this community, Claremont School has nothing to be embarrassed about. It's a very beautiful school district.
NEXT> Ryan McNutt: A lot of people would be very envious of the assets that are in the Claremont School District. So I just want to close.

[R9495-341] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (title per roster) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Josh Malloy: track of the projectors, which we hadn't been tracking before, because we were mostly trying to get them into the classrooms before. Projectors is one thing. Laptops, Chromebooks, desktops, throughout the district. Again, this number is comprised of everything that's five years old or older.
TEXT> Once you get to that point, it becomes more and more difficult to sustain the equipment. And so this number was based off of that calculation. With this, there is no this is a removal of all tech funds. So this is this is don't replace any of the laptops, don't replace any of the desktops, don't do any servers. Don't do any Chromebooks. Don't do any projector bulbs. Don't do any projectors, headphones, mice. It's basically a stripping of all tech equipment. This would make it doesn't make it pretty hard next year, to support the students and the teachers, and in their classrooms. It's just going to it's going to make it difficult. It's going to, make it hard for them to deliver their lessons. The contracted services. 4000. We've been contracting services with a local, company.  And this would this would remove those contracted services. So we've had somebody come in two days a week, roughly about 16 hours every week. They'd come in. And they do work for us. That would be a reduction of that position, which just means a longer, response time if there is an issue in a classroom. So we're not able to get out there as quickly to fix issues as they come up. So that's those two I'm not talking about at this point. Anything else? Okay.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Josh. Thank you.

[R9495-366] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Instructional staff development and instructional textbooks.
TEXT> I'll take the next two. Not for FY 18, but for FY 17. Actually,  the. Board, through our budget process talked a lot about instructional support. So when I took over my position a few years ago, we really were lacking in the curriculum, instruction and assessment area. Our primary business, I know sometimes it's forgotten is to educate children. And so curriculum instruction and assessment is a key component of that.  And when I  took over,  we realized that there were large gaps in what we wanted students to know and be able to do. And we've been addressing that in the last three years. One of the ways that we address that is to change how we look at unit and curriculum development and design. We used to have a scenario where if we had a science teacher at the middle school, for instance, this happened. They had created all of their own lesson plans, their own curriculum and their own units. And when they left, everything went with them. We now have changed that process. And so if we are paying staff and working with staff to develop curriculum, then that becomes our Claremont School District's intellectual property and we keep it here. It's published on the website. You've seen it, we've talked about this before, but it becomes our  property, our work, and it stays here  even when we have turnover of staff.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So the money that is here, the 59000, is used and has been used to pay teachers during non instructional days, non contracted days. So Saturdays vacations and summertime to

[R9495-416] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike' on this recording;  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I mean.
TEXT> Yeah, they're beyond the useful life. So what's happening is I have them. Yes, I could use it if I needed to, but next week I'm going to be replacing something else. So I'm going to replace an engine. I'm going to be replacing another transmission. So. So they're not I haven't fixed them to perfect condition. I fixed them good enough to pass inspection to be safe to transport students.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Okay. So I guess my question was is are they still safe in transporting students.

[R9495-417] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: going to be replacing something else. So I'm going to replace an engine. I'm going to be replacing another transmission. So. So they're not I haven't fixed them to perfect condition. I fixed them good enough to pass inspection to be safe to transport students.
TEXT> Okay. So I guess my question was is are they still safe in transporting students.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Their spares? So if I have a problem with another bus, I utilize one of those busses so they're safe for that purpose. Yes. I wouldn't take them to Boston

[R9495-469] Paulette Fitzgerald | Claremont Middle School administrator (called up by superintendent to  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Two. School guidance counselors. Are they, certified?
TEXT> They're not social workers. So Courtney's responsibilities are supporting families and students. So she will go on home visits. She really coordinates a lot with our, as I said, supports our homeless  population. She also supports students whose parents are incarcerated. Those are her. Our fit students. Students of parents who are incarcerated. Those that's her primary role is to support those students and their families. And then she branches out. Yes. Frank.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do you have access to make any Vento person who's the homeless liaison?

[R9495-475] Paulette Fitzgerald | Claremont Middle School administrator (called up by superintendent to  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Who does it for Claremont School district?
TEXT> I think another thing that's really important is we have students who are in. We might have a middle school student, and they may have a sibling who's at the elementary school or who's at the high school.  So she's supporting the family of the middle schooler. She's also supporting that same family, who may have other students in other buildings.
NEXT> Lexi: Just to kind of clear up what you're trying to say. Thank you. Courtney. She without her. Without her, you would have say. I say I'm a student, for example,

[R9495-476] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: have a middle school student, and they may have a sibling who's at the elementary school or who's at the high school. So she's supporting the family of the middle schooler. She's also supporting that same family, who may have other students in other buildings.
TEXT> Just to kind of clear up what you're trying to say. Thank you. Courtney. She without her. Without her, you would have say. I say I'm a student, for example, that has, like, barely any clothes on the back of her  on the back.  Does not eat a meal every single day at home. Hasn't incarcerated parent or two. You know, all of these things that she has to deal with. And I have attendance issues. So, like, without Courtney, I wouldn't be at school. And that would really hurt our attendance right at the middle school. Correct. Okay. I just wanted to clear that up.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you for your help. Good.

[R9495-504] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: And where do they pick up?
TEXT> That's and I've been saying that for years, is the money we're spending to raise kids. We are now taking away from the money we need to spend to educate kids. And there's other city people and community agencies that should be in this mix to help. It should not be a school issue to raise.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: That's a school.

[R9495-521] Paulette Fitzgerald | Claremont Middle School administrator (called up by superintendent to  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Their.
TEXT> Jobs are very their job descriptions are very different. They do very, very different things. And just to speak to to Chris's point two about other agencies, one of the things that Courtney takes on is that bridge between school and other services to help support our families. So, for example, we have a student assistance team and Courtney coordinates that. So it's a wraparound team. So she coordinates with mental health services and you know, a variety of other services in the community and helps actually hook families up with those services.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Again, my my issue never has been with the need or it is what it is. My issue has always been with the funding and the fact that we're being

[R9495-564] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: All right. Can you can you just touch on the crisis, counselor?
TEXT> Absolutely. So the crisis counselors, we have two of them this year, creating one full time position we've contracted for since I've been at Stevens. So for years now with Monadnock Mountain View for their services. They are, as the name implies, crisis counselors, students who are, saying that they are intending self-harm, students who are in crisis, students who are in family crisis, whose parents are on their way to becoming incarcerated, students who come into school and are paralyzed by  what is going on at home. Utilize our crisis counselors. They have the background, the training to deal with students who are in emotional crisis and who cannot learn because of of their state of mind. They're very different kind of training and certification than our school counselors have.  So, it does not overlap at all with what our social worker does, and it does not overlap with the training and the expertise and the ability that our school counselors have to deal with those kinds of emotional crises, where without them, students would need to be immediately referred to West Central and West central is suffering staff shortages.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: They used to be in every week on our SS team meetings and have representation there. We have not had a representative in our student support team meetings at all

[R9495-596] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: It's hard to get in there. There really is.
TEXT> And the role. Of school counselors has morphed, much in the last ten years, and which is why we call them school counselors now, not guidance counselors. And there you can speak a little bit to what, like kind of the guiding principles that are your what your top ten kind of ten commandments that guide a school counselor. It's much more college and career based. So working with students on making sure their transcripts are correct, that they have the right courses, that they're on the right path, that they're on the right pathway, whether they're college bound, career bound, etc. that's more the focus of the school counselor versus the helping a student in crisis piece.
NEXT> Unidentified: And obviously when student is in crisis, we do help them. You know, if student ends up having to leave school for a while, for whatever reason, they come back,

[R9495-597] Unidentified | School counselor, Stevens High School (name not stated) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: their transcripts are correct, that they have the right courses, that they're on the right path, that they're on the right pathway, whether they're college bound, career bound, etc. that's more the focus of the school counselor versus the helping a student in crisis piece.
TEXT> And obviously when student is in crisis, we do help them. You know, if student ends up having to leave school for a while, for whatever reason, they come back, we are involved in that  transition back. They might need to have check ins with me, like a high five or fist bump in the hallway or quick, you know, office meeting. Like, how are you doing today? What's going on on scale of 1 to 5? But as Doctor Barry said, a lot of what I deal with is college and career readiness, you know, what are you gonna do with your life? Are you going to college? Okay. No. That's fine. What are you going to do instead? And helping them figure out what classes they want, if they're passionate, helping them set up with  Downing, you know, and just helping them get through high school the best way they can. And our crisis counselors do that as well. They just do it in a different way. And it's kind of like parallel train tracks. I guess it's a good way to explain it. We both are working towards the same goal as students. We're just working on those goals in different ways.
NEXT> Lexi: Thank you. Yeah. Thank you.

[R9495-601] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: to 2 whenever until they're, they're not needed anymore but have basically the same hours as teachers. So Mountain View has been excellent about providing us with basically one full time crisis counselor for the last four years, at no increase over those four years.
TEXT> I think in correct me if I'm wrong, one of the primary distinctions between a crisis counselor and a social worker, to Frank's question earlier is, I'm not aware that the crisis counselors do much work with the family or with any one outside of the school building, whereas the social worker is going on home visits and working with families as an  entirety. Not just the child or student  in crisis or in the school building. They're working more with the the family unit. So I would say that's the primary distinction between the two positions.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess my question would be this if if a child is in crisis where they're telling their guidance counselor, their teacher in the hall, or whoever, I might

[R9495-602] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: is going on home visits and working with families as an entirety. Not just the child or student in crisis or in the school building. They're working more with the the family unit. So I would say that's the primary distinction between the two positions.
TEXT> So I guess my question would be this if if a child is in crisis where they're telling their guidance counselor, their teacher in the hall, or whoever, I might hurt myself. My my thoughts go straight to our great walk through clinic, our great E.R., our great sources of the wonderful insurance we all now have. And I guess my question is this are they going where they need to get help for a couple hours, a couple days a week, maybe? Or are we getting them to the right place so the right people can see the bigger picture  and then pull in more funding and more? Do you do you see what I'm going.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: To do? And it's an excellent question because it actually speaks exactly to the importance of their position, because that crisis counselor can do a better evaluation of that student's

[R9495-603] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: help for a couple hours, a couple days a week, maybe? Or are we getting them to the right place so the right people can see the bigger picture and then pull in more funding and more? Do you do you see what I'm going.
TEXT> To do? And it's an excellent question because it actually speaks exactly to the importance of their position, because that crisis counselor can do a better evaluation of that student's state of mind to then reach out to whether it's Claremont PD, whether it's Valley Regional, whether it's Dartmouth-Hitchcock. And I'll give you an example we just had over Thanksgiving weekend, we found out through one of our counselors that a student might be in crisis. I'm at home in my pajamas. It's Saturday of Thanksgiving weekend. We have a protocol in place. That protocol was followed. That student, our social worker, on Saturday night of Thanksgiving weekend went to the home, contacted Claremont PD, did a wellness check on that child. Got that child to, West Central who a value that weighted that child and recognized that that child needed to be in a psychiatric unit because of the validity of their feelings and the comments that they made. That was the network that we have in place currently that ensured that that student was safe and was put in the right place with the right services, not people at Stevens, because this was beyond us. But we followed that protocol and made sure that that student got what they needed. So, that's that's how we operate. And that's kind of the role that different people play.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think, though, to your point into Chris's point, that's why the crisis counselor position is not currently on the recommended put back in list. And the social worker is

[R9495-604] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: place with the right services, not people at Stevens, because this was beyond us. But we followed that protocol and made sure that that student got what they needed. So, that's that's how we operate. And that's kind of the role that different people play.
TEXT> I think, though, to your point into Chris's point, that's why the crisis counselor position is not currently on the recommended put back in list.  And the social worker is because we,  when presented with a student in crisis, have the option to call the police department or. The an ambulance or something like that, whereas that option doesn't necessarily exist in the same way to, accommodate for the lack of a social worker, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yes, it doesn't think for being honest about that. Very honest.

[R9495-607] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: Great.
TEXT> Because here's my concern is, is that you can go  you can have  that person help that one time. And it's good that that that case was there and that you had that,  you know, that wraparound for that particular person. However, there's also how many children in your school.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: 546.

[R9495-611] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: crisis if we the school systems are so. Responsible and we're not going back out and seeing to the state, and we're not going back out and seeing to the medical fields, this is your responsibility to help, then this is going to keep going.
TEXT> We are, we are. With all due respect, we are doing that. But when we do that and a child can't get an appointment for a week, when a child can't get assistance because the staffing in those other agencies doesn't exist or is is compromised, then that student isn't getting the services, and then a student who is in crisis can either access somebody in the building immediately, or we send them off to agencies that aren't staffed and don't have appointments for them, or that student doesn't have insurance and  can't access that that either.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So it's.

[R9495-615] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Which is. The.
TEXT> The other part of that is, would we really have the police come and pick them up or have the ambulance? Wouldn't that be a little bit traumatic for a student that's in having a crisis?
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[R9495-641] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I'm not talking to you. Talking to everybody.
TEXT> Which one? We never actually had a conversation about the athletic trainer. So for me, I just wanted to speak to that. I mean, it's it's a crushing blow to Stephens to lose Ashley. It just is. She was amazing. She she set the bar really high for whoever comes in next. But I,  you know, I'm I'm watching this list, just picking out my untouchables in my head right out of the gate. And that's one of them. I've seen firsthand what that athletic trainer position has done, how much had to do because it was Ashley versus how much it'll do with the next person. I don't know, but it is a huge impact on helping kids, especially now with other concussion protocol and stuff. So for me, I just think it's important to really think about that one  especially. I'm going to go with what they're recommending, how they're going to handle it. But I definitely think when all is said and done, we need to make sure that one way or another, we still have an athletic trainer on the staff here in Stevens period.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I think my my issue with that, Chris, is that being involved in athletics is a choice when you're in crisis. These things for kids aren't a choice. And that's

[R9495-642] Alex Herzog | Claremont School Board member (Speaker 27 attribution by elimination a | 2017-12-06
PREV> Chris Irish: to go with what they're recommending, how they're going to handle it. But I definitely think when all is said and done, we need to make sure that one way or another, we still have an athletic trainer on the staff here in Stevens period.
TEXT> I think my my issue with that, Chris, is that being involved in athletics is a choice when you're in crisis. These things for kids aren't a choice. And that's why I would go  with the guy with the A  caseworker before I would go with the athletic trainer.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Honestly, I'm kind of an offensive, both of them being untouchable.

[R9495-655] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: think it's important to note, also serves the entire Sullivan County. I don't believe and Amy, if she's still here, can correct me. I don't believe there's another adult ed program in Sullivan County. And also supports the adult ed program at Lebanon through here.
TEXT> There was one year where we didn't have any children or students from Claremont graduated from that program. So it provides really a wonderful opportunity. And we have many children, students from Claremont who do do benefit it. But to Corey's point.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Explain that to me. Again, I was assuming this person would handle a lot of Newport. Why? Why would how are we sharing a position with Lebanon?

[R9495-657] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Chris Irish: Explain that to me. Again, I was assuming this person would handle a lot of Newport. Why? Why would how are we sharing a position with Lebanon?
TEXT> We're not sharing a position.  We are an adult ed program that provides some service to students of Lebanon. Is that the correct way to say it? Amy.
NEXT> Amy: Do you want me to come? Yeah.

[R9495-662] Amy | Adult education program lead, Claremont School District (first name on | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: And the second Newport.
TEXT> There's there's no adulthood services in the entire rest of Sullivan County. So we are the only adulthood services. We are the only ones who give the high set. We're the only ones who give the adult diploma services. We're the only ones who give the ESL services. Sorry. These are acronyms. So excuse me, but the high set is the equivalency test. Who? Which used to be the GED and switched over back in 2014. Adult diploma is, an alternative to what is the 700 regs? You guys are all under 700 regulations. Sorry. You guys are all under 500 regulations. We're 700 regulations. So we can take students starting at the age of 16. They can come for a recovery class. They can that goes back to their sending school or they can come. They can actually graduate with us.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Is there?

[R9495-668] Amy | Adult education program lead, Claremont School District (first name on | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: About 15,000.
TEXT> It was about 15,000.  We used to have some elective type classes that would bring in, like EMT and stuff like that. We have to actually be able to find enough students to be able to bring in something of that nature and then find someone that is willing to  run it, at a certain cost so that it's not too much money. And in Claremont in this area, it's difficult to run a course that isn't too much, but it's also competitive with other local areas like that.  We've looked at some. It also used to be grant funded, so there's another piece to it. So it actually used to be grant funded years ago and that's off the books. So finding it so that it actually can bring in money. So that's something that I know everybody thought that it was a larger revenue. But it's because it used to be grant funded and it's no longer grant funded that, that piece of it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: What did that money go back into?

[R9495-673] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Amy: 25 come for individual and classes. And then we have a teacher who goes up to the House of corrections twice a week and engages in classes up there with them, and there's 10 to 12 kind of rolling enrollments up there, men and women.
TEXT> So in theory, if we increase our adult education portfolio and start embracing the online learning pieces of whatnot and just start increasing our enrollment, there's not only a benefit educationally to adults and older kids here, there's a revenue source that's in my opinion, it's fairly untapped right now.
NEXT> Amy: And also to let you know, adult Ed is one of the four core partners for Wyoming, the Workforce and Opportunity Act. So, there's a lot of federal pieces that,

[R9495-686] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Thank you Amy. Middle school has a unbelievable athletic program for our middle school students.  However.
NEXT> Unidentified: To.

[R9495-701] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Why not.
TEXT> The next position if I go on, is a curriculum specialist.  I'd just like to. I'm going to ask Corey to speak to this, but I just want to say one thing to you. Six years ago, I reported to this community and to you, the school board students experiencing great difficulty transitioning from grade five to grade six and grade eight to grade nine. And there is a serious disconnect involving cross grade communication and instruction between the elementary schools and middle school, as well as the middle school and high school. Just because you lived in Claremont didn't guarantee you you would have free and viable, guaranteed education. The schools were disconnected and that was representative in the students curriculum. Specialists elementary, middle and high have moved us away from that model. Corey, that was your introduction.
NEXT> Lexi: Oh, thanks.

[R9495-704] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: I'm induction with mentoring program director or coordinator for K through 12. We are taking a more integrated model to mentoring. So our our curriculum specialists are responsible for the mentoring component. So I know the conversation was around. We still have the W program.
TEXT> What happened to that position? Those responsibilities have been divided and are carried out by the curriculum specialists. So they are responsible for mentoring at their level. So we have one person focused on the high school, one person focused on the middle school. And then the district wide coordinator, funded out of the Saw budget is focused on the elementary school and unity. So has four buildings. And so they're responsible for overseeing the mentoring that happens for new teachers. They're also responsible for overseeing the development of curriculum, supporting teachers as instructional coaches and the development of assessment and implementation of that, and then analyzing that data, supporting administrators at the building level with establishing professional learning communities and data cycles. And how do we use that information to change our instructional practices to better support kids? This is typically when I think the general population tune out because they don't really understand what curriculum, instruction and assessment mean, and I understand why that would be. I don't always understand what Mike's talking about, but I pretend so.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's right.

[R9495-706] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That's right.
TEXT> So with that, what I can tell you is that. In the last let's see, since 2014, 15 was my first year in my position. On the state assessment, which is, changed yet again for this year. But last year was the s back. And with the support of the curriculum folks, ensuring that we have a building, a guaranteed and viable curriculum so that every student and every teacher knows what it is that we want them to know and be able to do, not only across a grade level. So that third grade at desert looks like third grade at bluff, looks like third grade at Maple, but that there is that vertical articulation so that we know we're not teaching butterflies three years in a row, and it's not even related to the standards that we're expected to teach. But it's just because we like it. We've we've been able to work toward aligning those areas within vertically and horizontally.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We've had a 6% increase in LA scores and a 3% increase in math scores overall, and that's just end overall proficiency. So that's saying that we have had an

[R9495-709] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: In a word. Yep.
TEXT> The first sound, in a word. So  dad was the first sound that you hear. All of you can say is the first sound that you hear to represent the D. 60% of our kindergartens coming. Can't do that. 20% couldn't recognize their name in terms of growth.  As measured by I ready for last year, 1617 we 100% growth means that students are making one year's growth of time in one year of learning. So that would be sort of where we'd want to start. If you're making one year's growth of time and one year worth of learning, that's kind of what we would expect. We know we have kids coming in  who need to make up some significant gaps to get where we need them to be. So we had, as measured by irony, last year, 121% growth in Ela, meaning that we are almost making a year and a quarter  worth of learning happen in one year's time. We are catching kids up and we had 115% growth in math. So we are exceeding and that's that's aggregated across. The all.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Levels one through eight. So we are exceeding what you would expect in one year's worth of time in terms of growth for our students. And we are increasing our

[R9495-711] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: demonstrate for you, the public and for parents that we are actually making games in student outcomes, not just telling you all the things that we're doing, but actually making gains in student outcomes as a result of the work that we've done in curriculum.
TEXT> And I would ask you, I would ask you to look at this comparison of administrative and support staff of the five districts and notice that the support he cares arch Lebanon, even Newport. Can't compare to that numerically. But we certainly are exceeding that with student growth. So you can see we have we are recommending that this position not be reduced.
NEXT> Chris Irish: A nutshell, that's one of those positions where the data supports what you're asking.

[R9495-740] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: But teachers and such. But you know what I'm saying, right? We're panic spreads.
TEXT> Yeah. So I actually hold a reading specialist credentials. You do not want me diagnosing your children with anything to do with reading. That's not my strength. But I do have the credential for our district, if necessary, because it is a requirement of the Department of Ed. But we don't. Yeah. We don't have specific reading specialists on staff anywhere, nor do we have math specialists.
NEXT> Lexi: Thank you.

[R9495-746] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (ASR 'did not elementary') | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, you and I will. They don't do.
TEXT> I can speak at a couple levels. We couldn't get up here quick enough. In all honesty, I can speak to the elementary level and Pat will certainly speak to secondary. There are so many issues that occur with families and students that are not part of our world as even administrators. We're not lawyers, we're not law enforcement, we're not court specialists. And  and just that piece of what Crystal provides alone priceless  and allows us to keep kids safe with the right people, so on and so forth. The daily consult in  safety, in not only drills, but what systems should be in place to ensure that you have a safe and secure campus. I could go on and on, but that wants to.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Add to that. Well, absolutely. When a student brings a weapon into the building, when a student comes in impaired because they are under the influence, when a student has

[R9495-748] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: what we need to do legally in order to ensure that that student is dealt with properly, that the families are notified in a timely manner when a restraining order is taken out by one family against another family, or one student against another student.
TEXT> And how does that work in a school building where those students have to coexist not just in a building, but in a classroom together?  All of those are  things that are SRO helps us with on a daily basis.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I have questions for you.

[R9495-756] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: anybody, and then bluff has a lock down and then Maple has a lock down. And I'm, I'm really concerned about the fact of the safety of the children because we have the ability, I believe, to work smarter, not harder with the technology department.
TEXT> So technology provides us with more evidence, and that's all it provides us with. It gives us things on tape that we can then refer to visually after the fact, to provide the evidence of what may or may not have happened, but the prosecution of that evidence, the use of that evidence with that student and that family and the courts still has to be handled by  a professional. And that's and we know Claremont PD has been understaffed for years now and continues to try to maintain full staffing. They're not in a position to to come in and train us. And that's one of the the job description pieces of an SRO. That SRO works with the staff to help us, mostly administration, but sometimes more so, I think perhaps with the lower grades in in working with the students and educating staff about how to handle students. But that's mainly the role that she provides. Other Claremont police officers aren't in a position to do that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'm not saying that they aren't, or they couldn't be or they couldn't be agreement right there. There couldn't be some kind of service program because there's always, you know,

[R9495-761] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> So I'm confused over the fact of how much are we going to be responsible for in the child's life in the school system, his education safe.  D and their well-being and their mental health and their this and then their schooling, which is all I'm I'm trying to understand.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9495-847] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (ASR 'did not elementary') | 2017-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Melissa, what's your definition of manageable size? What can you put that into a can?
TEXT> This particular class right now is our first grade. They have I believe we just had a new one registered this week. So we have 36 right now in two first grade classrooms. So that would be 18 students in 18 students. We would move forward into second grade. Right now we have three second grade classrooms.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Not perfect, but you can't justify three really.

[R9495-857] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: Nope.
TEXT> So the grant is supports in terms of staffing. That particular grant supports the project director coordinator. At this point in the evening, I forget exactly what the title is. It presents, it supports a part time administrative assistant for the management of the paperwork involved. It supports  a social worker position within the grant to focus on a caseload of 8 to 10 kids. That's the parameters of the grant. And then it supports some contracted services with West Central, with TLC, with some other organizations to provide direct support for that population of students. So that particular grant, is directly servicing a caseload of about eight children. There's very strict parameters around that. Which we can go into another time, but it would not be able to support a teaching position that would be expected to be done by the. Local. School district.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: School psychologist. Chris, can you speak to that with the contracted services, please?

[R9495-859] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: School psychologist. Chris, can you speak to that with the contracted services, please?
TEXT> Sure. So  looking,  looking at our Val team, if  we reduce one school psychologist, we would have to sort of redefine what? How they do business. Right now, they sit on school assistance teams at the building, at the building levels. So we'll have to pull back on them sitting on student assistance teams, and they will have to focus their energies on compliance, timelines, testing, writing reports, going to special ed meetings, so maybe be able to do it. If we right now we're seeing a big influx in referrals due to a special ed, referrals due to, behaviors.  And so if we get to a point where we  can't meet timelines, with our Val team, then we're going to have to rethink something next year. So at this point, we, I would I would take some of that and reroute it in case we would need to add another piece to that for next year. But at this point we would be able to, I think, reduce some of the school psych and sort of reframe how they're spending their day.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Is that a reduction? Because it's a shift to contracted services? Yeah.

[R9495-898] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Might not be the only one that didn't understand that.
TEXT> Then we do the deliberation with the school psych. But the other important thing that school sites are serving right now is they're also serving on student assistance teams. So they are sitting down pre referral before kids get to special ed.  And they're sitting down with teams at the table at the school level and having discussions about what interventions before we get there. So that will be pulled back on.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Do we also have like behavior specialists, our services.

[R9495-911] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Chris Irish: us, but one psychologist. We have three. Yes, the one school psychologist is $160,000 total. Total package. But well, so it's still an 80 to $90,000 package just salary alone. So it's just it was just the point. So everybody knows that's one psychologist right.
TEXT> And so what happens is is they get involved when referrals come in and when special ed referrals come in. That's what kicks a school psychologist into. And so I you know, their their whole thing is trying to work them on the front end to work with school teams through preventing kids from getting into special ed.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So okay.

[R9495-925] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Ben: We have seven at the high school.
TEXT> And what's the total number of kids being serviced?
NEXT> Unidentified: 95.

[R9495-934] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: We.
TEXT> So if there were to be a decrease in these positions, I know that sometimes  some children are heavy hitters and some are not quite as heavy. Would that be divvied up appropriately. So that's separated between.
NEXT> Unidentified: I.

[R9495-941] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Give me an example of what that would look like.
TEXT> So some of these guys have they're not on diploma tracks, so  they may be  spending some time in, I don't know, art class or cooking class or so it's getting them out into the school community a little bit more because right now we have we have a couple of classes where kids are spending more than 60% of their day in a self-contained environment. And when you look at the that report that comes back from the state, it is, you know.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That could continuously be worked on. It will be though, right? What's that? That will just continue to be worked on. Right. Getting them. Oh yeah. Integrated.

[R9495-952] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Well, yeah.
TEXT> They're really good about that too, by the way. I can just keep from a student perspective. They're really good about that. There's a person I'm not going to name names because that's just disrespectful, but there's,  a kid in the, life skills program, and he was. He's, like, really good at science. So he was my lab partner in sophomore year. So he would always come into labs and he would always be great. And then a few of them, they really enjoy music. So they sat in on our dress rehearsals this week and they helped us like organize stuff. And they were just a really big help. So it really helps to do that and they're really good at that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess my question is to that. Thank you for sharing is if you're if the plan is to integrate our special needs children back into the classroom and

[R9495-953] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: few of them, they really enjoy music. So they sat in on our dress rehearsals this week and they helped us like organize stuff. And they were just a really big help. So it really helps to do that and they're really good at that.
TEXT> So I guess my question is to that. Thank you for sharing is if you're if the plan is to integrate our special needs children back into the classroom and be more a classroom atmosphere for everyone. Why do we need two more special teachers?
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. What? He's coming.

[R9495-968] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That's completely different.
TEXT> About writing IEPs, setting IEP meetings. It's it's intimately being involved with that student on a daily basis.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: There's no way to do that, to be part.

[R9495-988] Unidentified | Unidentified - mixed cluster of short staff and audience interjections | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: That's what we that's what I need to hear. And I think that's what people need to hear because it hurts. It's it.
TEXT> Sounds like a lot of kids.
NEXT> Chris: It is absolutely going to have an impact on kids. Are we still going to move forward and try to integrate kids in more? We're absolutely we're still going to

[R9495-993] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: And I don't know if we have to readdress some of these. But yeah I need to hear your opinion on, on the effect on on our on our kids.
TEXT> I'm not I don't recommend it. I actually put one back down because. I think what we're really hurting right now is elementary. I think I think I think that that's where we need to focus some of our, if we're going to if I'm going to lose one and put one back in,  I've got to put it down in elementary because our K1K2, one k one two is it is absolutely ground zero right now for our young kids who haven't extremely they're just not regulated at all. And people you can talk to principals we don't know what to do with a lot of these guys around their behaviors. And and I've said it more than once, it is not a special ed issue because buildings don't know what to do with kids. And the only thing they know to do after they've sort of have worked through whatever intervention cycle that they've been working on,  they get done with. That is, we refer to special ed because that's the end of the line. We don't know what to do. And, and, and so we got we. We we, we got a problem with.
NEXT> Unidentified: With.

[R9495-1019] Ben | Assistant principal and special education coordinator, Stevens High Sc | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Department.
TEXT> And the student support team process.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: All right.

[R9495-1022] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you for.
TEXT> Earlier this week, I sent you a saturation study after looking at your November 29th school board budget study session. And the next is to remove three teachers from Stevens High School to cut three staff. However, our our adjustment  would be to reduce by two staff. And I want to refer you to appendix B in front of you. If you were to approve this, if we're going to go forward and reduce staff, there will be an impact on the school's ability to meet some of the standards. Charlie Jester said something very interesting to me about a number of teachers, class sizes, reduction of staff because of you. Look at the student enrollment. You see 11, you see 12. Wait a minute, that's 23.  We don't need that class. But every time you make an adjustment. All right. There's going to be a ripple effect. As I explained to you in that memo that I sent you, on Tuesday the fifth, you're going to start to compromise some of the options for other students. However, it's very difficult to justify that some of the several of the small classes. So that's why we are have put three teachers on the table, but are recommending, in the spirit of compromise to to minimize that option, impact on other classes. If we went through with 3 or 2, you will be impacting other students not directly connected to those classes you've eliminated because you've changed their options.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: But aren't we in the restructure for the scheduling anyway? That would possibly either readjust.

[R9495-1049] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: There's also.
TEXT> The their option would be for students to take language on blocks.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R9495-1055] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: So pretty good.
TEXT> For scholar, but still you understand what I'm saying. Where if there's a student, like in my case, I wasn't able to take Spanish one until my sophomore year of high school. So I'm doing Spanish three next semester. So therefore I would only have three credits. And I have friends that are in German for this year in their senior year. Like, there.
NEXT> Unidentified: You go.

[R9495-1057] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: You go.
TEXT> It's it's pretty difficult, especially to struggle with your schedule, your diploma requirements and like you answer scholar stuff.  So that'll have plays a factor too. And that directly affects the students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So that's the effect on world language, the English position. What's the effect of cutting the English position.

[R9495-1059] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: So that's the effect on world language, the English position. What's the effect of cutting the English position.
TEXT> That would have the least impact in the cuts in that across the board. That department has  lower class size numbers. And we could that's where we've identified. We have an extra position based on current class sizes.  So, one position I believe has a total student caseload over the course of a year of 60 students for the year versus 120.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So maybe the larger class size.

[R9495-1066] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: mathematics is where we can sell it. We need those to be strong skills. So I would just caution from a curriculum standpoint and an instruction standpoint in meeting our kids needs, especially those kids that do struggle that's going to impact that particular population.
TEXT> One other thing to thank the Christine.  Another thing is that the two departments that are impacted daily during flex the most  are math and English. So teachers can't find enough math and English teachers on any given day to support the students in math and English that need remediation and extra help during flex. You take one English teacher out of that. That's 20, 40, 60, 80 students a week that don't have flex access to an English teacher, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Has the program of studies changed a bit, like over the last few years for English.

[R9495-1083] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Opportunity for electives.
TEXT> And the enrollment at Stevens has really only swayed about 35 students in the four years that I've been there. We were at 575 when I came on. We're at 346 now. And it you know, it constantly does this kind of thing. But that's been the the sway is about a 35 student back and forth. It hasn't hasn't plummeted. But we've reduced quite a few staff since I've.
NEXT> Unidentified: Been there. Pan I have a fierce 14 year old lobbyist in my house. There he was.

[R9495-1087] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Sure that we're not affecting any AP or honors classes with these cuts. So can you to that..
TEXT> It may  affect our ability to hold. We have two AP in English. We have AP literature and AP language. So if we cut one English position and absorb those students and those sections into other teachers,  it may not be possible for us to continue to carry two separate AP English courses.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's the options I was talking about.

[R9495-1105] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Either or all.
TEXT> Okay. Well, with my course load and a lot of my classmates course load, I would not take an advanced placement class online  because, last year I took two AP classes, and I could not imagine trying to juggle one online with an online teacher and one in person in class. For a regular elective. I did that in my freshman year, but it also all depends on your course load as a student. It's not. We can't. The problem with this subject to me is that we can't umbrella every student.  Correct with black. Because I take math online. I'm doing pre-calculus online because that's I learn math better, reading it myself and not being taught where like you Michelle, like you said, you you learn better face to face.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R9495-1107] Lexi | Student representative, Stevens High School (first name only on record | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> That's. Yeah. Like  for me, it's only for certain  certain subjects, you know, it's just work. But, so we can't umbrella kids like that. And that's the part that's really frustrating to me.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And to that point to two other things that people don't tend to think about when we cut, when potentially programs like AP classes are cut, that affects our school

[R9495-1108] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: That's. Yeah. Like for me, it's only for certain certain subjects, you know, it's just work. But, so we can't umbrella kids like that. And that's the part that's really frustrating to me.
TEXT> And to that point to two other things that people don't tend to think about when we cut, when potentially programs like AP classes are cut, that affects our school profile. Our school profile is what colleges look at. It's what places like U.S. News and World Report when they rate New Hampshire high schools, and they have that 1 to 100 list and they look at your AP offerings. Another thing is the the substantive change policy that Middleton referred to earlier this evening, which requires us to report to when we reduce certain kinds of programing, student services, staffing, maintenance facility. We have to tell  me ask about that, because that will then require them to revisit our current accreditation. Our current, plan in place and determine whether they still feel we should maintain our accreditation because our accreditation is based on staffing and services that they saw when they came and visited us last October. So our requirement is if any of that goes away, we have to report it and then they'll read, visit our accreditation status. It's another potential consequence.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9495-1113] Chris | Special education director, SAU 6 (first name only on record; title in | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Not at this time.
TEXT> One of the things that you and your questions that you asked for is you asked you asked for some data around, paraprofessionals who were not tied specifically to it. And so we've gone through that and we've gone through all the paraprofessionals, we've gone through all of the IEP students. And we're at this point, we're coming up with we have four that I've identified that aren't specifically tied to, providing support tied to an IEP doesn't mean that they're not supporting, kids who aren't identified, but they're not it's not written into the IEP.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And when I say no elementaries, I say no elementaries. Like good. Thank God.

[R9496-13] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Opposed?
TEXT> Now? Abstain. I missed that meeting. So, student rep report.
NEXT> Lexi: So here's a little report from Stephens. Actually, it's not little. Pretty lengthy. So on Friday, December 1st, which was last Friday, the Stevens High School National Honor Society and

[R9496-14] Lexi | Student Representative, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Lexi'; surn | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Now? Abstain. I missed that meeting. So, student rep report.
TEXT> So here's a little report from Stephens. Actually, it's not little. Pretty lengthy. So on Friday, December 1st, which was last Friday, the Stevens High School National Honor Society and the Fine arts program at Stevens hosted the annual talent show. This year we called the S factor, kind of like the X factor, but not like Stevens.  So we had over ten abs ranging from dancing to singing to reading poetry. It was a great night with a nice turnout. Thank you to all of the performance performers and their friends and family for making this fundraiser success. All proceeds collected from this fundraiser will be distributed between the Fine Arts Program and the National Honor Society. Also on Friday, December 1st was  I applied day. Seniors, myself included, were given the opportunity to apply to colleges using the Common App with the help of our guidance counselors, which Miss Rimes is here. I don't know if any of the other ones are here. And other advisors from the HHEAF, which is the New Hampshire Higher Education Assistance Foundation. We were, we were able to use a fee waiver that applied to all of New Hampshire colleges or universities, so we didn't have to pay for the application fee that day. As a total 42 students sent out applications, 109 applications were submitted that this is a huge deal.
NEXT> Lexi: It's a big record. Concerning that, like last year, there was only 20 students and only 43 applications sent out. So congratulations and good luck to my fellow classmates who

[R9496-15] Lexi | Student Representative, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Lexi'; surn | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: to use a fee waiver that applied to all of New Hampshire colleges or universities, so we didn't have to pay for the application fee that day. As a total 42 students sent out applications, 109 applications were submitted that this is a huge deal.
TEXT> It's a big record.  Concerning that, like  last year, there was only 20 students and only 43 applications sent out. So congratulations and good luck to my fellow classmates who participated in this event or have already sent out applications prior to this day. Those who came to help us with this process from  the New England yeah. New Hampshire Higher Education Assistance Foundation  commended us on how nice and engage  students where along with our self efficiency. They also appreciated all of the organization that was put along into this event. They also said that as a school, we were very impressive.  I applied to six New Hampshire schools that day, just myself. And each time that I hit the submit button on the Common App, I had to have my guidance counselor, Miss Rimes, come over and, like, give me a pep talk before each one, because it was pretty. It was pretty daunting. But, we were all really excited that day. It was just kind of like a big weight lifted off our shoulders, kind of like, yeah, we can do this. And it's okay having people help us. It's totally fine. So tomorrow, which is Thursday, December 7th, is the Stevens High School band inquire Windsor winter concert.
NEXT> Lexi: The concert band, concert choir, jazz band, chamber ensembles, Stephen Ayers and Cardinal Voices will be performing in the Stevens High School auditorium at 7:00 p m. Admission is free

[R9496-20] Lexi | Student Representative, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Lexi'; surn | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: progresses. That just. Oh, that just touched my heart. When I read that email, I was like, I had to took all of me to not burst out in tears in the library today. The Maple Avenue PTO Penguin Plunge store has opened this week.
TEXT> This store gives the students  the ability to purchase gifts for family members, friends, or even teachers. Most gifts are under a dollar, so it's a perfect place for the little ones to shop. On Wednesday, December 20th, the second year music students at Maple Avenue will host their annual holiday concert at 6:00 now. Preschool update. Before this meeting, Miss Edwards Mision Edwards, she emailed me and asked me to come to the open house of the sensory room. And if none of you if I if no one has been in there yet, I highly recommend it because I want one for the high school, like yesterday. So I'm just going to get a little update on that.  So as you first walk in, there's little cubby spaces to store coats and shoes. There's a roller. There's this big purple roller. Kind of looks like an old fashioned hair curler  to roll around in. There's a quiet tent with special lights to help them calm. There's little sensory toys inside.  There's a compression canoe which you sit in, and it just kind of compresses you and makes you feel like you're in this big bear hug.  There's bubble lights with a mirror, and that helps to visually calm this.
NEXT> Lexi: Kids. There's a crash pad mat, so if they just want to throw themselves onto the floor, it's totally fine because the entire floor is covered in mats. You know,

[R9496-21] Lexi | Student Representative, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Lexi'; surn | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: calm. There's little sensory toys inside. There's a compression canoe which you sit in, and it just kind of compresses you and makes you feel like you're in this big bear hug. There's bubble lights with a mirror, and that helps to visually calm this.
TEXT> Kids. There's a crash pad mat, so if they just want to throw themselves onto the floor, it's totally fine because the entire floor is covered in mats. You know, there's little sitting balls for small orange balls for the little kids to sit and bounce on. And then there's one big ball for the teachers to have fun, too, because, you know, your big kid to,  there's comic music and serene lights and the,  calm music and the serene lights both help with, calming all the senses as you go into the room. Like I've told a few people I've had, I had a really rough day today. Just been so stressed out and, like, once I walked into that room, it was just kind of like.  Like all the stress is gone. It gives a better. It gives them a better sense of their self and others. It kind of gives them the ability to think, okay, what do I need right now? Do I need quiet time? Do I need to go into the quiet tent and calm down? And that's that. That's really awesome. So a sports update last night, Tuesday, December 5th, the girls varsity basketball team won against Hopkinton High School with a score of 29 to 26. On Friday, December 1st, the JV girls basketball team won against Mascot of Valley Regional High School with a score of 39 to 25.
NEXT> Lexi: Good job ladies on winning your games. Keep it up. Good luck to all of the other athletes in your upcoming games. And that concludes my report for this evening.

[R9496-26] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Referring to your in your packet, my superintendents report.  We have made an effort to  increase the teacher vacancy coverage by establishing  and improving our ability to provide substitutes and also increase the compensation of substitutes, while reducing the overall cost of teacher substitution rates. Not rates per se, but the cost to actually pay by increasing the compensation. And I hope the documentation in your packet of four pages explains the intent behind this. Substitutes are very, very important. Teacher absent team is a serious matter, and we want to minimize the absenteeism with students by having adequate substitute coverage and quality substitute coverage. So we hope increasing the hourly rate and being able to have a guarantee of a certain number of substitutes available will help us to that end.  Also, there's been some discussion regarding  prior years of Stephens High School failure rate going from 2007 to 2012, and the question came up, well, what's been happening since then? And so you have before you a ten year analysis  of the Stephens High School failure ratings from 2007 to 2017. But the landscape has been changing a different type of grading from letter grade to base. So we're not exactly comparing apples to apples, but I hope this provides somewhat of an overview as to what was happening during the 20 1516 school year with the A B schedule, because the question was.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Compare the A, B schedule of 1516 to the block schedule of prior years. I will share with you I applied day the peer outreach program and the regional regional

[R9496-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: type of grading from letter grade to base. So we're not exactly comparing apples to apples, but I hope this provides somewhat of an overview as to what was happening during the 20 1516 school year with the A B schedule, because the question was.
TEXT> Compare the A, B schedule of 1516 to the block schedule of prior years.  I will share with you I applied day the peer outreach program and the regional regional career pathway fair. Is already spoken to. So thank you Lexi.  I would like so  also is going to including your packet information about the Claremont tax rate.  But Ryan McNutt city manager is here tonight. And I know he's going to be discussing, among other things, the Claremont tax rate, the history as well as  how the city is dealing with that challenge last night. I'm very pleased to tell you that  the Claremont Middle School public forum  took place. I think there are approximately 80 staff and parents involved with  this opportunity to talk about Claremont Middle School and to, in essence, to have an opportunity to discuss  what's it like being at Claremont Middle School, how do we feel it, Claremont Middle School, and how can we work together as a community staff, parents  and students to  improve our school? And I believe that this was a wonderful step toward the moving, taking a good school and making it toward a grade school.  It was very clear that the staff and students and parents are proud of Claremont Middle School, but it's also a parent that there are some issues. And the good news is they're talking about it in a proactive and productive way.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And so information from this forum is going to be publicized, and it will be an opportunity for for all involved to, in fact, move forward. Especially in the sense

[R9496-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: money, 7400 or less for a family of four. The concern about Claremont is simply that 70% of the students who apply for the voucher will likely come from comparatively poor property, poor communities that would be most impacted by a loss of state funding.
TEXT> The stabilization grant intended to protect those districts from catastrophic funding losses that this would be, would cost the state at least $31 million in new spending in the next five years. That's not going to happen. So in essence, there is a serious possibility that there would be a drawdown of funding that normally would go to the Claremont School District and other school districts that would be dispersed to  families who are eligible for this fund. And so I share this with you because  of the final. Final comment Claremont like community depend on dollars raised through local taxes and state funding due to lower than average equalized valuation per pupil, lower than average property valuations, meaning a lower ability to raise property funds. We know that. So this voucher program could be very detrimental for the communities like Claremont. So I share this with you. Not to say the sky is falling, but when we talk about budget, we can't assume that prior state funds that have been dwindling, even as we go through budget after budget, may even continue to draw down. If this is approved, it is expected to pass next year.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's the projection. Unless there is quite a bit of lobbying. Could there are more people who will benefit than people who live in communities that would be greatly impacted?

[R9496-39] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: And then Frank.
TEXT> When you read off the criteria, said tutoring would be part of the funding. So can you explain to me that if a child stays in the Claremont School District School and they use this money for tutoring, wouldn't that still be funding into the school?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: No.

[R9496-44] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> Occurs in the Claremont School District by the Claremont School District is not the tutoring they're talking about. They're talking about private schools, parochial schools, homeschooling children who live in Claremont, who attend a private school, parochial school, school,  or our homeschooled, but not a school,  not a student who was enrolled in the Claremont School District who receives tutoring.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's how.

[R9496-50] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> It's for students that are being homeschooled?
NEXT> Unidentified: That's just varied of it. Private tutoring basically. Yeah. I know you're thinking it.

[R9496-62] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: A line.
TEXT> Yes, this is a challenging topic, if I may,  Brian, because the president of the United States, the governor of New Hampshire, the federal secretary of Education, the New Hampshire Department of Education commissioner are all in support of school choice. And this is an option of school choice. I believe that parents have the right and should have the right to decide how their child will be educated, where their child will be educated. The problem with this, in my view, is that it draws down funding for a larger mass of children attending public education and where you have financially strapped communities where there's greater chance of eligibility. It's sort of the perfect storm. So I don't I believe it's more of a national move toward choice.  And I've heard that I've heard that in New Hampshire. I've heard a New Hampshire senator say New Hampshire public schools are failing. Therefore, let's  offer something better.  And I sat with probably another 40 or 50 superintendent of schools, and we had an interesting discussion about that. But the fact is, there is a movement toward this initiative. And there was an individual on one party side, Frank, that recently hopped over that allowed this to go forward. So the it's not over yet, but we have to be active and we and we have to be able to express our, our voice  on this matter in Concord before the board's voted on.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9496-87] Nathan | Associate Business Administrator and HR Director, SAU 6 (addressed as  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Nathan: certainly all the other circumstances that surround it. So at the end of the day, by stating having folks come forward and, and sign up for a different commitment level, it would allow us to cover those gaps and fix that supply and demand problem.
TEXT> We know how many of each bracket, how many 90 day employees. Ideally, we would hire, how many 45 day employees we would hire.  And then anyone who's not, who cannot commit to those two brackets, can commit to a lower bracket for a little lower rate. So, the daily rates have been $65 to $75 based on your qualifications. So we've essentially raised those.  So the first bracket is it's an hourly rate based on a school day, and we know it can fluctuate based on preparing for a class or staying after with a student. That's why I  favored the hourly rate. So that way we could pay folks for the extra time they'd be spending necessary.  It also includes a two hour minimum. So if you come in and and you get, you find out that your assignment there was an assignment because something occurred or that it was a shorter assignment anticipated. We'll pay a minimum two day,  two hours. Sorry. And versus what we do now, which is you could come in on, be asked to leave and get paid a half day. So that presented some cost savings. So we're recognizing the fact that you've taken the effort. We're going to pay you for it. But it's going to be a more practical level. So a bunch of moving parts there. But at the end of the day,  the goal and the way the model is being executed is to accomplish a few things.
NEXT> Nathan: One is to cover those vacancies. As I said, we don't believe we'll hit 100%, but my goal is to go from 60% overall coverage, which is a little different

[R9496-136] Unidentified | Music Director, Stevens High School (name not stated on this recording | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: Okay, we'll move on to citizens comments.
TEXT> Music director Stevens High School.  I forgot to send all my stuff in, and I forget if I put this in other stuff anyway. We've had 12 band students and 12 choir students selected for the Valley Honors Music Festival, which is in January.  And it's held down at high school. It's like six different high schools submit their best kids, and then they form a giant honors band, Giant Honors Choir. They're rehearsed for two days,  and then they put on a concert.  So, yeah, it's a cool honor, and it should be really fun. There's also the All-State Music Festival, which many of you hear of,  athletes getting chosen for all state. This is the same exact thing.  But maybe harder to get into because you're not competing division wise. You're competing with everybody from every school in the entire state.  We had four students audition and make it into that, two in the mixed choir, one in the treble choir, and one scored high enough to make it into the band. And the honors brass  choir on trumpet.  So those are super cool things. That one's in April.
NEXT> Unidentified: Then also to reiterate, Lexie's the concert is tomorrow. For anybody listening, it's free. Stevens High School Auditorium, 7 p.m.. It's going to be super fun. Greatly appreciate. Yeah. We

[R9496-141] Amanda Plummer Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as stated, ASR 'Amanda Plu | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: a half long. We have to put in an hour and a half concert into four concerts that last 45 minutes. So it's a lot of practicing and I'm really excited about it too. So sorry. So I'd like to address all of you today.
TEXT> About something. My name is Amanda Plummer Harrell and Sabrina Harrell. We are parents of bluff students. We live in Claremont. We're going to address you about something that happened to my daughter at school yesterday.  I was deeply saddened and extremely angered by what occurred.  There was a field trip for the bluff students, and,  I packed my daughter a lunch like I do. Any other time she goes on a field trip. Except that when she got home, she told me that her drink was taken and she was not allowed to take it to school because it was deemed too sugary. Mind you, it was a brisk lemon tea.  I have spoken with the principal and the teacher, and actually one of the comments that was given to me was that they would like to consider what they could do to search school lunches. That angered me even more as a parent.  My main concern is that how dare they take my child's food or drink from her without consulting me? I don't care if I packed her a bag of candy. You do not take things from my child that I purchase with my money that I worked for, and that put me over the edge.
NEXT> Amanda Plummer Harrell: I was furious, and while I did speak with the principal and he did assure me that there will be no searching of the lunches, which did calm me quite

[R9496-142] Amanda Plummer Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as stated, ASR 'Amanda Plu | 2017-12-06
PREV> Amanda Plummer Harrell: child's food or drink from her without consulting me? I don't care if I packed her a bag of candy. You do not take things from my child that I purchase with my money that I worked for, and that put me over the edge.
TEXT> I was furious, and while I did speak with the principal and he did assure me that there will be no searching of the lunches, which did calm me quite a bit. I am still angered that a teacher felt that it was her right to take my child's drink.  She said that it was too sugary. I said, well, I could have sent her with a soda. I didn't. I sent her with a brisk tea. That one liter brisk tea had a quarter of the amount of sugar and caffeine that a 12 ounce Mountain Dew has in it. And I did my research. I was told that the wellness policy allows them to make that judgment. That is not true. Sabrina and I spent all night last night and a good part of today researching this and trying to find  other policies that would support what this teacher said, and I could not. And even the principal admitted that the policy did not, in any fashion, tell you or tell us what we could or could not provide. And, Sabrina.
NEXT> Sabrina Harrell: The wellness policy, as I read it, states what is acceptable for the school to provide their children or the children of the school for food and drink. It does

[R9496-149] Amanda Plummer Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (name as stated, ASR 'Amanda Plu | 2017-12-06
PREV> Sabrina Harrell: The foot fruit rollups.
TEXT> Every day. So every day. Why was my child picked on? You know why? Why was my daughter's drink taken? Now, granted, I will give them, you know, a little bit of credit. They did provide her with milk and juice on this field trip that they were gone all day. Two milks and a juice is what I was told. But why wasn't I called? Why? Why was why did a teacher feel that it was her right to take my child's drink?
NEXT> Lexi: And that's unacceptable.

[R9496-151] Sabrina Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (introduced by Amanda Plummer Ha | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: And that's unacceptable.
TEXT> To also  mention that a conversation that had taken place as teacher said that she was going to draft something to send home with children's parents,  in regards to what she felt was appropriate or inappropriate for parents to send their kids to school with food and drink, that's acceptable.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If they if I would very much like the opportunity to, investigate this matter.

[R9496-165] Sabrina Harrell | Public commenter, Bluff School parent (introduced by Amanda Plummer Ha | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: My daughter goes to school every day with roll ups. I'm just saying.
TEXT> You  know, that's that's absolutely perfectly fine. It's just the fact of this child is being picked on for something that was sugary and nobody else is. Making sure.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you guys for coming. Yeah. Great.

[R9496-181] Tom Rock | Public commenter, Ward 2 (McNutt later says 'Tom Roth', ASR variant) | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: To cut it.
TEXT> Your proposal to cut the budget so you can have a 171  cut in the tax rate for $127,000, average assessed home in Claremont. It's two bucks a week. I'm sure somebody could give up a cup of coffee at Dunkin Donuts for that. So, that's pretty much what I would ask that you do is to make sure that the student comes first.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[R9496-184] Unidentified | Unidentified - mixed cluster: board members' short responses (pledge,  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you.
TEXT> Mr. Chairman. Can we have any students that want to speak come up first before just an interest of time for them. They don't stay too long.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I didn't see any, okay?

[R9496-187] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And I just wanted to.
TEXT> We're not going to have a conversation. We're going to let people speak. Are there any students that want to speak up?
NEXT> Lexi: I think I'm the only student here, but no.

[R9496-188] Lexi | Student Representative, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Lexi'; surn | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: We're not going to have a conversation. We're going to let people speak. Are there any students that want to speak up?
TEXT> I think I'm the only student here, but no.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: All right.

[R9496-193] Steve | Public commenter, Francis Street (first name as stated; Zullo thanks ' | 2017-12-06
PREV> Steve: to me directly, but to get back to the bigger business on hand, which is the budget, we're focusing on lots of things as far as raw numbers, but there's a key fact, and I honestly think that people need to pay attention to this.
TEXT> There are tons of students going  to college getting themselves into hundreds of thousands of dollars of debt, not able to find a job. With that said, I think people need to look seriously at trying to help fund the building trades part of this center that we're in tonight. Being in the flooring industry, knowing electricians and builders, there is a massive labor shortage. Pretty soon you're going to be paying me more to install flooring than you'd pay a heart surgeon. And that's where I'd like people to think tonight. Thank you.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thank you, Mr. Mirsky.

[R9496-203] Larissa Cahill | Public commenter, Ward 2, Stevens High School staff member and parent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Larissa Cahill, Ward two. And I want to echo what Mr. said about your service here. It's really the height of citizenship and civic responsibility to  serve on a board. And I want to address you today as a citizen, as a parent of two children, one who is graduated from Stevens High School, the other who is about to graduate this year. And,  I feel as though with the cuts that I'm becoming aware of that are on the chopping block that had those programs not been at Stevens High School when my daughter was about to enter high school, we would be looking elsewhere in terms of where we would be. In fact, at the time that my daughter was going to high school, we lived in a town in Vermont that was had school choice. And so we had some decisions. And my daughter made a  a chart, if you will, of all of the schools that she had in this area that she could choose from, in some that are big budget schools, some that were private schools that she had the opportunity to go to, she chose Stevens High School, and not because I worked there.
NEXT> Larissa Cahill: I was on the cons list of the con or the pros and cons, because who wants to go where your mom works, right? But there was a program that

[R9496-215] Ron Perry | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Ron Perry: hard thing to take away from children because we all want the best for our kids. We all really, truly do. If you don't know, the average income, family, home median income, and Claremont is only $34,000, most of the teachers are making about 44.
TEXT> So just take care of your salaries and slash at ten. And that's your average family income in Claremont. So when you're talking about budget, you know, taking away budgets and adding to budgets, just be fruitful of other people in this town. You know, many poor people just don't show up. Many people don't like talking to public. I don't like talking in public. It's it it's something that has to be addressed. We have too many expenses for a shrinking community. We've had  our enrollments have been slashed. Not just for last, you know, 5 or 10 years. They've been slashed for the last 30 years. Our enrollments may be going down. We used to have 900 kids in Stevens High School at one point. And when these buildings cost a lot of money to run, energy and efficiency, maintenance, upkeep. Bruce.  Plumbing, electrical, the technical part, it all adds up. You have three, three elementary buildings, three things you have to service and expense. It would be worth considering, especially if 193 passes to consolidating these elementary schools into one building. Maybe going back to the state because we turned down the $17 million, in my eyes, foolishly.
NEXT> Ron Perry: But we turned down that $17 million and maybe worth going back to the state and asking them for that back in another format. It's it's it's maybe a long

[R9496-292] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, City of Claremont | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: I can keep it up.
TEXT> I just want to close with saying, if you'll indulge me, that I've had the opportunity. I've been invited in to the school, the Stevens High School. It's a beautiful school. Absolutely. You guys have done a great job with the renovation. I know the you know, this renovation happened a couple of years ago. I would have you could have told me it happened yesterday. The school is well maintained. It's clean, it's respected by the students. You know, just adding some perspective. Some of the communities that I've come from would be envious  of how you've maintained and the fidelity that you've put towards your investments. Again, I know perception is king, and I'm just trying to add perspective, but folks that have not been to some of some inner city schools, I mean, the Claremont School System. I can speak from experience, is in, I think, very good condition. It has extremely caring and well-meaning and  educated staff and an administration. I meet with Middleton every Thursday morning. The schools have a lot of assets to build upon. The schools cost a lot, and I know there's particular reasons for that, and it's going to be very difficult, I think, to address those particular cost drivers. But pleas from and hearing it from a new person into this community, Claremont School has nothing to be embarrassed about. It's a very beautiful school district.
NEXT> Ryan McNutt: A lot of people would be very envious of the assets that are in the Claremont School District. So just want to close.

[R9496-321] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: an impact on student and impact on the school district, so it's critical that you understand what that represents. You'll also see at the bottom an opportunity to have the totals in comparison to your directive in comparison to our recommendation, and then the adjustments.
TEXT> And you'll also see the impact on the tax rate. There's another document which will be a comparison of administration and support staff of of five communities. Because there was a discussion regarding are we top heavy in Claremont, Claremont, Kearsarge, Lebanon, Fall Mountain and Newport. And you'll see the opportunity to review administration as well as support staff, even to the point where you can compare student ratios to the administration. And the third document are our answers to your question from your November 29th board meeting. So we're going to pass these out to you, and we're also going to pass them out to the residents here.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I have a question. I'd like to ask you, doctor, because I'm a little confused. And I just want to understand the process where we're new. So we asked you

[R9496-349] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Josh'; surn | 2017-12-06
PREV> Josh Malloy: track of the projectors, which we hadn't been tracking before, because we were mostly trying to get them into the classrooms before. Projectors is one thing. Laptops, Chromebooks, desktops, throughout the district. Again, this number is comprised of everything that's five years old or older.
TEXT> Once you get to that point, it becomes more and more difficult to sustain the equipment. And so this number was based off of that calculation. With this, there is no this is a removal of all tech funds. So this is this is don't replace any of the laptops, don't replace any of the desktops. Don't do any servers. Don't do any Chromebooks. Don't do any projector bulbs. Don't do any projectors, headphones, mice. It's basically a stripping of all tech equipment. This would make it doesn't make it pretty hard next year, to support the students and the teachers, in their classrooms. It's just going to it's going to make it difficult. It's going to, make it hard for them to deliver their lessons. The contracted services. 48,000. We've been contracting services with a local, company.  And, this would this would remove those contracted services. So we've had somebody come in two days a week, roughly about 16 hours every week. They'd come in. And they do work for us. That would be a reduction of that position, which just means a longer, response time if there is an issue in a classroom. So we're not able to get out there as quickly to fix issues as they come up. So that's those two I'm not talking about at this point. Anything else?
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9496-377] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Instructional staff development and instructional textbooks.
TEXT> I'll take the next two. Not for FY 18, but for FY 17. Actually,  the. Board, through our budget process talked a lot about instructional support. So when I took over my position a few years ago, we really were lacking in the curriculum, instruction and assessment area. Our primary business, I know sometimes it's forgotten is to educate children. And so curriculum instruction and assessment is a key component of that.  And when I  took over, we realized that there were large gaps in what we wanted students to know and be able to do. And we've been addressing that in the last three years. One of the ways that we address that is to change how we look at unit and curriculum development and design. We used to have a scenario where if we had a science teacher at the middle school, for instance, this happened. They had created all of their own lesson plans, their own curriculum and their own units. And when they left, everything went with them. We now have changed that process. And so if we are paying staff and working with staff to develop curriculum, then that becomes our Claremont School District's intellectual property and we keep it here.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's published on the website. You've seen it, we've talked about this before, but it becomes our property, our work, and it stays here even when we have turnover of

[R9496-431] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mike'; surname per roster | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> They're beyond the useful life. So what's happening is I have them. Yes, I could use it if I needed to, but next week I'm going to be replacing something else, so I'm going to replace it. I'm going to be replacing another transmission. So. So they're not I haven't fixed them to perfect condition. I fixed them good enough to pass inspection to be safe to transport students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9496-433] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So I guess my question was is are they still safe and transporting students.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: There were their spares. So if I have a problem with another bus I utilize one of those busses so they're safe for that purpose. Yes. I wouldn't take them

[R9496-489] Paulette Fitzgerald | Administrator, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintende | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Two school guidance counselors. Are they, certified?
TEXT> They're not social workers. So Courtney's responsibilities are supporting families and students. So she will go on home visits. She really coordinates a lot with our, as I said, supports our homeless  population. She also supports students whose parents are incarcerated. Those are her our fit students, students of parents who are incarcerated. Those that's her primary role is to support those students and their families. And then she branches out. Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Frank, do you have access to make any Vento person who's the homeless liaison?

[R9496-494] Paulette Fitzgerald | Administrator, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintende | 2017-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Who does it for Claremont School District?
TEXT> I think another thing that's really important is we have students who are in. We might have a middle school student, and they may have a sibling who's at the elementary school or who's at the high school.  So she's supporting the family of the middle schooler. She's also supporting that same family, who may have other students in other buildings.
NEXT> Lexi: Just to kind of clear up what you're trying to say. Courtney. She without her. Without her, you would have say. I say I'm a student, for example, that has,

[R9496-495] Lexi | Student Representative, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Lexi'; surn | 2017-12-06
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: have a middle school student, and they may have a sibling who's at the elementary school or who's at the high school. So she's supporting the family of the middle schooler. She's also supporting that same family, who may have other students in other buildings.
TEXT> Just to kind of clear up what you're trying to say.  Courtney. She without her. Without her, you would have say. I say I'm a student, for example, that has, like, barely any clothes on the back of her on the back.  Does not eat a meal every single day at home. Has an incarcerated parent or two. You know, all of these things that she has to deal with. And I have attendance issues. So, like, without Courtney, I wouldn't be at school. And then that would really hurt our attendance right at the middle school. Correct. Okay. I just wanted to clear that up.
NEXT> Amanda Plummer Harrell: Thank you.

[R9496-523] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - Michael Petrin or Alex Herz | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: workers are not teachers, but their objective is to allow a child to be in the position to be taught and to learn. Not all children come from stable homes. And and so we're trying. I call that person a life jacket for many children.
TEXT> I agree militant, and I think that just because they're not teachers doesn't mean they're not educators in that profession. Absolutely. You gotta when kids come to school and they got to worry about where their roof is, where their meals coming from, all that I get, where you're coming from, Chris. And. But I understand where Corey's come from on that.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I the I'm not questioning the need or the position. I'm questioning the funding. And for me, part of my logic to all of this has been we're getting more

[R9496-528] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Pick up? That's and I've been saying that.
TEXT> For years, is the money we're spending to raise kids. We are now taking away from the money we need to spend to educate kids. And there's other city people and community agencies that should be in this mix to help. It should not be a school issue to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Be a school.

[R9496-542] Paulette Fitzgerald | Administrator, Claremont Middle School (introduced by the superintende | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So it's hard for me to understand then why you have two school counselors with such a phenomenal social worker sitting there? Also.
TEXT> Their jobs are very their job descriptions are very different. They do very, very different things. And just to speak to to Chris's point two about other agencies, one of the things that Courtney takes on is that bridge between school and other services to help support our families. So, for example, we have a student assistance team and Courtney coordinates that. So it's a wraparound team. So she coordinates with mental health services and you know, a variety of other services in the community and helps actually hook families up with those services.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Again my my issue never has been with the need or it is what it is. My issue has always been with the funding and the fact that we're being

[R9496-573] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So I guess my question is, are we researching and looking to get some assistance back through the state? I mean, this this it's bizarre that this person is it's just she's not in a union. She's just like a floater. She's not part of.
TEXT> She was created because of a specific need and created to save children. And it speaks for the Claremont School District to step up and acknowledge that we're not like other districts and we have to make.
NEXT> Unidentified: It differences.

[R9496-629] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Pat', 'Pat Barry', 'Doct | 2017-12-06
PREV> Amanda Plummer Harrell: Of.
TEXT> School counselors has morphed, much in the last ten years, and which is why we call them school counselors now, not guidance counselors. And there you can speak a little bit to like, kind of the guiding principles that are your what  your top ten kind of ten commandments that guide a school counselor. But it's much more college and career based. So working with students on making sure their transcripts are correct, that they have the right courses, that they're on the right path, that they're on the right path way,  whether they're college bound, career bound, etc. that's more the focus of the school counselor versus the helping a student in crisis piece.
NEXT> Ms. Rhines: And obviously when student is in crisis, we do help them, you know? And if student ends up having to leave school for a while, for whatever reason, they come

[R9496-630] Ms. Rhines | School Counselor, Stevens High School (surname as heard, ASR 'Rhines'/ | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: transcripts are correct, that they have the right courses, that they're on the right path, that they're on the right path way, whether they're college bound, career bound, etc. that's more the focus of the school counselor versus the helping a student in crisis piece.
TEXT> And obviously when student is in crisis, we do help them, you know? And if student ends up having to leave school for a while, for whatever reason, they come back, we are involved in that  transition back. They might need to have check ins with me, like a high five or fist bump in the hallway or quick, you know, office meeting. Like, how are you doing today? What's going on on scale of 1 to 5? But as Doctor Barry said, a lot of what I deal with is college and her readiness, you know, what are you gonna do with your life? Are you going to college? Okay, no. That's fine. What are you going to do instead? And helping them figure out what classes they want, if they're passionate, helping them sit up with Miss Downing. You know, and just helping them get through high school the best way they can. And our crisis counselors do that as well. They just do it in a different way. And it's kind of it's like parallel train tracks. I guess it's a good way to explain it. We both are working towards the same goal as students. We're just working on those goals in different ways.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9496-638] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I'm wrong, one of.
TEXT> The primary distinctions between a crisis counselor and a social worker, to Frank's question earlier is, I'm not aware that the crisis counselors do much work with the family or with any one outside of the school building, whereas the social worker is going on home visits and working with families as an  entirety. Not just the child or student  in crisis or in the school building. They're working more with the the family unit. So I would say that's the primary distinction between the two positions.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess my question would be this if if a child is in crisis where they're telling their guidance counselor, their teacher in the hall, or whoever, I might

[R9496-639] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: is going on home visits and working with families as an entirety. Not just the child or student in crisis or in the school building. They're working more with the the family unit. So I would say that's the primary distinction between the two positions.
TEXT> So I guess my question would be this if if a child is in crisis where they're telling their guidance counselor, their teacher in the hall, or whoever, I might hurt myself. My my thoughts go straight to our great walk through clinic, our great er, our great sources of the wonderful insurance we all now have. And I guess my question is this are they going where they need to get help for a couple hours, a couple days a week maybe? Or are we getting them to the right place so the right people can see the bigger picture  and then pull in more funding and more? Do you see what I'm.
NEXT> Unidentified: Going to do?

[R9496-641] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Pat', 'Pat Barry', 'Doct | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Going to do?
TEXT> And it's an excellent question, because it actually speaks exactly to the importance of their position, because that crisis counselor can do a better evaluation of that students state of mind to then reach out to whether it's Claremont PD, whether it's Valley Regional, whether it's Dartmouth-Hitchcock. And I'll give you an example we just had over Thanksgiving weekend,  we found out through one of our counselors that a student might be in crisis. I'm at home in my pajamas. It's Saturday of Thanksgiving weekend. We have a protocol in place. That protocol was followed. That student, our social worker on Saturday night of Thanksgiving weekend. Went to the home, contacted Claremont PD, did a wellness check on that child. Got that child to, West Central who a value that weighted that child and recognized that that child needed to be in a psychiatric unit because of the validity of their feelings and the comments that they made. That was the network that we have in place currently that ensured that that student was safe and was put in the right place with the right services. Not people at Stevens, because this was beyond us. But we followed that protocol and made sure that that student got what they needed. So, that's that's how we operate. And that's kind of the role that different people play.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think, though, to your point into Chris's point, that's why the crisis counselor position is not currently on the recommended put back in list. And the social worker is

[R9496-642] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: place with the right services. Not people at Stevens, because this was beyond us. But we followed that protocol and made sure that that student got what they needed. So, that's that's how we operate. And that's kind of the role that different people play.
TEXT> I think, though, to your point into Chris's point, that's why the crisis counselor position is not currently on the recommended put back in list. And the social worker is because we,  when presented with a student in crisis, have the option to call the police department or. The an ambulance or something like that, whereas that option doesn't necessarily exist in the same way to, accommodate for the lack of a social worker, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yes. It doesn't think for being honest about that.

[R9496-649] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Pat', 'Pat Barry', 'Doct | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: crisis if we the school systems are so. Responsible and we're not going back out and seeing to the state, and we're not going back out and seeing to the medical fields, this is your responsibility to help, then this is going to keep going.
TEXT> We are, we are. With all due respect, we are doing that. But when we do that and a child can't get an appointment for a week,  when a child can't get assistance because the staffing in those other agencies doesn't exist or is is compromised, then that student isn't getting the services, and then a student who is in crisis can either access somebody in the building immediately, or we send them off to agencies that aren't staffed and don't have appointments for them, or that student doesn't have insurance and  can't access that that either.
NEXT> Unidentified: So it's.

[R9496-653] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> The other part of that is, would we really have the police come and pick them up or have the ambulance? Wouldn't that be a little bit traumatic for a student that's in having a crisis?
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely.

[R9496-682] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Which one?
TEXT> We never actually had a conversation about the athletic trainer. So for me, I just wanted to speak to that. I mean, it's it's a crushing blow to Stephens to lose Ashley. It just is. She was amazing. She she set the bar really high for whoever comes in next. But I,  you know, there's I'm I'm watching this list. Just picking out my untouchables in my head right out of the gate. And that's one of them. I've seen firsthand what that athletic trainer position has done, how much had to do because it was Ashley versus how much it'll do with the next person. I don't know, but it is a huge impact on helping kids, especially now with other concussion protocol and stuff. So for me, I just think it's important to really think about that one  especially. I'm going to go with what they're recommending, how they're going to handle it. But I definitely think when all said and done, we need to make sure that one way or another, we still have an athletic trainer on the staff here in Stevens period.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think my my issue with that, Chris, is that being involved in athletics is a choice when you're in crisis. These things for kids aren't a choice. And that's

[R9496-683] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - Michael Petrin or Alex Herz | 2017-12-06
PREV> Chris Irish: going to go with what they're recommending, how they're going to handle it. But I definitely think when all said and done, we need to make sure that one way or another, we still have an athletic trainer on the staff here in Stevens period.
TEXT> I think my my issue with that, Chris, is that being involved in athletics is a choice when you're in crisis. These things for kids aren't a choice. And that's why I would go  with the guy with a caseworker before I would go with the athletic trainer.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Honestly, I'm kind of an offensive, both of them being untouchable.

[R9496-697] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: think it's important to note, also serves the entire Sullivan County. I don't believe and Amy, if she's still here, can correct me. I don't believe there's another adult ed program in Sullivan County. And also supports the adult ed program at Lebanon through here.
TEXT> It was one year where we didn't have any children or students from Claremont who graduated from that program. So it provides really a wonderful opportunity. And we have many children, students from Claremont who do do benefited. But to Corey's point.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Explain that to me. Again, I was assuming this person would handle a lot of Newport. Why or why would how are we sharing a position with Lebanon?

[R9496-699] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Chris Irish: Explain that to me. Again, I was assuming this person would handle a lot of Newport. Why or why would how are we sharing a position with Lebanon?
TEXT> We're not sharing a position.  We are an adult ed program that provides some service to students of Lebanon. Is that the correct way to say it?
NEXT> Unidentified: Amy, do you want me to go? Yeah.

[R9496-707] Amy | Adult Education Director, Claremont (addressed as 'Amy'; surname not o | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Be.
TEXT> The GED and switched over back in 2014. Adult diploma is, an alternative to what is the 700 regs? You guys are all under 700 regulations. Sorry. You guys are all under 500 regulations. We're 700 regulations. So we can take students starting at the age of 16. They can come for a recovery class.  They can that goes back to their sending school or they can come. They can actually graduate with us.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Is there?

[R9496-713] Amy | Adult Education Director, Claremont (addressed as 'Amy'; surname not o | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: About 15,000.
TEXT> It was about 15,000.  We used to have some elective type classes that would bring in, like EMT and stuff like that. We have to actually be able to find enough students to be able to bring in something of that nature and then find someone that is willing to  run it, at a certain cost so that it's not too much money. And in Claremont in this area, it's difficult to run a course that isn't too much, but it's also competitive with other local areas like that. We've looked at some. It also used to be grant funded, so there's another piece to it. So it actually used to be grant funded years ago and that's off the books. So finding it so that it actually can bring in money. So that's something that I know everybody thought that it was a larger revenue. But it's because it used to be grant funded and it's no longer grant funded that, that piece of it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: What did that money go back into?

[R9496-718] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2017-12-06
PREV> Amy: enrolled. 25 come for individual classes. And then we have a teacher who goes up to the House of corrections twice a week and engages in classes up there with them, and there's 10 to 12 kind of rolling enrollments up there, men and women.
TEXT> So in theory, if we increase our adult education portfolio and start embracing the online learning pieces of whatnot and just start increasing our enrollment, there's not only a benefit educationally to adults and older kids here. There's a revenue source that's in my opinion, it's fairly untapped right now.
NEXT> Amy: And also to let you know, adult Ed is one of the four core partners for Wyoming, the Workforce and Opportunity Act. So, there's a lot of federal pieces that,

[R9496-733] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Thank you Amy. Middle school has a unbelievable athletic program for our middle school students.  However, to get to the 1.2 we have added the assistant athletic director, responsibility was shipped over to our athletic director.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So we're back to where we were a few years ago. Theoretically, that shift to shifting back here just happened.

[R9496-748] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Why not?
TEXT> The next position if I go on, is a curriculum specialist.  I'd just like to. I'm going to ask Corey to speak to this, but I just want to say one thing to you. Six years ago, I reported to this community and to you, the school board students experiencing great difficulty transitioning from grade five to grade six and grade eight to grade nine. And there is a serious disconnect involving cross grade communication and instruction between the elementary schools and middle school, as well as a middle school and high school. Just because you lived in Claremont didn't guarantee you you would have free and viable, guaranteed education. The schools were disconnected and that was representative in the students curriculum. Specialists elementary, middle and high have moved us away from that model. Corey, that was your introduction.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh, thanks.

[R9496-751] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: integrated model to mentoring. So our our curriculum specialists are responsible for the mentoring component. So I know the conversation was around. We still have the program. What happened to that position? Those responsibilities have been divided and are carried out by the curriculum specialists.
TEXT> So they are responsible for mentoring at their level. So we have one person focused on the high school, one person focused on the middle school. And then the district wide coordinator, funded out of the SA budget, is focused on the elementary school and unity. So has four buildings. And so they're responsible for overseeing the mentoring that happens for new teachers. They're also responsible for overseeing the development of curriculum. Supporting teachers as instructional coaches and the development of assessment and implementation of that, and then analyzing that data, supporting administrators at the building level with establishing professional learning communities and data cycles. And how do we use that information to change our instructional practices to better support kids? This is typically when I think the general population tune out because they don't really understand what curriculum, instruction and assessment mean, and I understand why that would be. I don't always understand what Mike's talking about, but I pretend so.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R9496-757] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: In a word.
TEXT> Yep. The first sound, in a word. So  dad was the first sound that you hear. All of you can say is the first sound that you hear to represent the D. 60% of our kindergartners coming can't do that. 20% couldn't recognize their name in terms of growth.  As measured by I ready for last year, 1617 we 100% growth means that students are making one year's growth of time in one year of learning. So that would be sort of where we'd want to start. If you're making one year's growth of time and one year worth of learning, that's kind of what we would expect. We know we have kids coming in  who need to make up some significant gaps to get where we need them to be. So we had, as measured by irony, last year, 121% growth in Ela, meaning that we are almost making a year and a quarter worth of learning happen in one year's time. We are catching kids up and we had 115% growth in math. So we are exceeding and that's that's aggregated across.
NEXT> Lexi: The all.

[R9496-760] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: demonstrate for you, the public and for parents that we are actually making gains in student outcomes, not just telling you all the things that we're doing, but actually making gains in student outcomes as a result of the work that we've done in curriculum.
TEXT> And I would ask you, I would ask you to look at this comparison of administrative and support staff of the five districts and notice that the support he cures Lebanon, even Newport. We can't compare to that numerically, but we certainly are exceeding that with student growth. So you can see we are we are recommending that this position not be reduced.
NEXT> Chris Irish: A nutshell, that's one of those positions where the data supports what you're asking.

[R9496-778] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: What's the difference between title one and a reading specialist.
TEXT> So we have title one teachers who provide interventions to individual children, but they're not all trained as actual reading specialists who have that level of diagnostic understanding.  They are often teachers, as I was, and they're, you know, used in a small group instructional capacity. So our title one teachers are interventionists, not reading specialists necessarily. Some of them have some more advanced training because they were lucky enough to snag them up. But but they're not deployed in their reading specialist capacity.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So we don't have a reading specialist. But we do have people working on reading with our children.

[R9496-782] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: But teachers and such. But you know what I'm saying? Right before peanut spreads.
TEXT> Yeah. So I actually hold a reading specialist credential. You do not want me  diagnosing your children with anything to do with reading. That's not my strength. But I do have the credential for our district, if necessary, because it is a requirement of the Department of Ed. But we don't. Yeah, we don't have specific reading specialists on staff anywhere, nor do we have math specialists.
NEXT> Lexi: Thank you.

[R9496-784] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: Thank you.
TEXT> School resource officers. And next on the list, we're recommending that this be reinstated with our recommended adjustments to the director of school resource officer. I don't think I have to say too much about that person and what  that professional has done in this position. K through 12 staff, students, community.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Can I ask a question after that? As far as I think it's great that we have that K through eight, however, I don't I'm confused about the fact that

[R9496-787] Unidentified | Unidentified - short interjections from several voices | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: school resource officer does not is not equated to cameras or security doors. The the the involvement of and support she provides our schools elementary, middle and high school with any of the administrators like to come forward and give some firsthand experiences regarding that.
TEXT> Yes I will. I can speak at a couple levels. We couldn't get up here quick enough. In all honesty, I can speak to the elementary level and Pat will certainly speak to secondary. There are so many issues that occur with families and students that are not part of our world as even administrators. We're not lawyers, we're not law enforcement, we're not court specialists. And  and just that piece of what Crystal provides alone priceless  and allows us to keep kids safe with the right people, so on and so forth. The daily consult in safety, in not only drills, but what systems should be in place to ensure that you have a safe and secure campus. I could go on and on, but that wants to. Add to that.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, absolutely. When a student brings a weapon into the building, when a student comes in impaired because they are under the influence, when a student has a conflict cyberbullying

[R9496-789] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Pat', 'Pat Barry', 'Doct | 2017-12-06
PREV> Patricia Barry: what we need to do legally in order to ensure that that student is dealt with properly, that the families are notified in a timely manner when a restraining order is taken out by one family against another family, or one student against another student.
TEXT> And how does that work in a school building where those students have to coexist not just in a building, but in a classroom together?  All of those are things that are SRO helps us with on a daily basis.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I have questions for you.

[R9496-800] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed as 'Pat', 'Pat Barry', 'Doct | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: anybody, and then bluff has a lock down and then Maple has a lock down. And I'm, I'm really concerned about the fact of the safety of the children because we have the ability, I believe, to work smarter, not harder with the technology department.
TEXT> So technology provides us with more evidence, and that's all it provides us with. It gives us things on tape that we can then refer to visually after the fact, to provide the evidence of what may or may not have happened, but the prosecution of that evidence, the use of that evidence with that student and that family and the courts still has to be handled by  a professional. And that's and we know Claremont PD has been understaffed for years now and continues to try to maintain full staffing. They're not in a position to to come in and train us. And that's one of the the job description pieces of an SRO. That SRO works with the staff to help us, mostly administration, but sometimes more so, I think perhaps with the lower grades in in working with the students and educating staff about how to handle students. But that's mainly the role that she provides. Other Claremont police officers aren't in a position to do that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'm not saying that they aren't, or they couldn't be or they couldn't be agreement right there. They couldn't be some kind of service program because there's always, you know,

[R9496-805] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi: So.
TEXT> So I'm confused over the fact of how much are we going to be responsible for in a child's life in the school system, his education safe.  D and their well-being and their mental health and their this and then their schooling, which is all I, I'm trying to understand.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R9497-33] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (called on 'Melissa Lewis ... Mel | 2017-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: What's your definition of manageable size? Can you put that into.
TEXT> Another I can. This particular class right now is our first grade. They have I believe we just had a new one registered this week. So we have 36 right now  in two first grade classrooms. So that would be 18 students in 18 students. We would move forward into second grade. Right now we have three second grade classrooms.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Not perfect, but you can't justify three. Really. Correct. Yeah.

[R9497-39] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - no direct name cue on thi | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah. So to go back to the the grant that we received over the next five years, is that something that could be in that grant where it's.
TEXT> A teaching position cannot be. Nope. So the grant is supports  in terms of staffing, that particular grant supports the project director coordinator. At this point in the evening, I forget exactly what the title is. It presents,  it supports a part time administrative assistant for the management of the paperwork involved. It supports  social worker position within the grant to focus on a caseload of 8 to 10 kids. That's the parameters of the grant. And then it supports some contracted services with West Central, with TLC, with some other organizations to provide direct support for that population of students. So that particular grant,  is directly servicing  a caseload of about eight children. There's very strict parameters around that, which we can go into another time, but it would not be able to support a teaching position that would be expected to be done by the local school district.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: School psychologist. Chris, can you speak to that with the contracted services, please?

[R9497-41] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: superintendent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: School psychologist. Chris, can you speak to that with the contracted services, please?
TEXT> Sure. So looking,  looking at our vow team, if we reduce one school psychologist, we would have to sort of redefine what? How they do business. Right now, they sit on school assistance teams at the building. At the building levels. So we'll have to pull back on them sitting on student assistance teams, and they will have to focus their energies on compliance, timelines, testing, writing reports, going to special ed meetings. So maybe be able to do it.  If we right now we're seeing a big influx in referrals due to a special ed, referrals due to, behaviors. And, so if we get to a point where we can't meet timelines, with our Val team, then we're going to have to rethink something next year.  So at this point, we,  I would I would take some of that and reroute it in case we would need to add another piece to that for next year. But at this point we would be able to,  I think reduce some of the school psych and, and sort of reframe how they're spending their day center.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Reduction because.

[R9497-76] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: superintendent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Might not be the only one that didn't understand that.
TEXT> Then we do the deliberation with the school psych. But the other important thing that school sites are serving right now is they're also serving on student assistance teams. So they are sitting down pre referral before kids get to special ed. And they're sitting down with teams at the table at the school level and having discussions about what interventions before we get there. So that will be pulled back on.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Do we also.

[R9497-87] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: superintendent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Chris Irish: not just us, but one psychologist. We have three. Yes, the one school psychologist is $160,000 total package, but well, so it's still an 80 to $90,000 package just salary alone. So it's just it was just the point. So everybody knows that's one psychologist.
TEXT> Right. And so what happens is is they get involved when referrals come in and when special ed referrals come in. That's what kicks a school psychologist into. And so I you know, their their whole thing is trying to work them on the front end to work with school teams through preventing kids from getting into special ed.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So okay.

[R9497-100] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member ('No question Michelle.' [45] recognitio | 2017-12-06
PREV> Ben: We have seven at the high school. Right.
TEXT> And what's the total number of kids being serviced?
NEXT> Ben: 95.

[R9497-108] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member ('No question Michelle.' [45] recognitio | 2017-12-06
PREV> Ben: Last week. And so we.
TEXT> So if there. Were to be a decrease. In these positions, I know that sometimes some children are  heavy hitters and some are not quite as heavy. Would that be divvied up appropriately. So that's separated between.
NEXT> Chris: I think.

[R9497-113] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: superintendent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Can you give me an example of what that would look like?
TEXT> So some of these guys have,  they're not on diploma tracks, so they may be  spending some time in, I don't know, art class or cooking class or so it's getting them out into the school community a little bit more  because right now we have we have a couple of classes where kids are   spending more than 60% of their day in a self-contained environment. And when you look at the that report that comes back from the state, it is, you know.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: That could continuously be worked on. It will be though, right? What's that? That will just continue to be worked on. Right. Getting them. Oh yeah. Integrated.

[R9497-120] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School (addressed 'I guess maybe  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Oh okay. Well, yeah.
TEXT> They're really good. About that too, by the way. I can just pick from a student perspective.  They're really good about that. There's a person I'm not going to name names because that's just disrespectful, but there's, a kid in the,  life skills program, and he was he's, like, really good at science. So he was my lab partner in sophomore year. So he would always come into labs and he would always be great. And then a few of them, they really enjoy music. So they sat in on our dress rehearsals this week and they helped us like organize stuff. And they were just a really big help. So it really helps to do that and they're really good at that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So I guess.

[R9497-122] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member not named on this recordi | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So I guess.
TEXT> My question is to that thing is if you're if the plan is to integrate our special needs children back into the classroom and be more a classroom atmosphere for everyone. Why do we need two more special teachers? Okay. What he's coming. Cutting to. Oh, I'm too tired. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I thought.

[R9497-135] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: superintendent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: That's completely.
TEXT> Different about writing IEPs, setting IEP meetings. It's it's intimately being involved with that student on a daily basis.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: There's no way to be able to do that, to be part of that. Also.

[R9497-156] Unidentified | Unidentified - mixed cluster of short acknowledgments and fragments fr | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: That's what we that's what I need to hear. And I think that's what people need to hear because it hurts.
TEXT> It's it sounds like a lot of kids.
NEXT> Chris: It is absolutely going to have an impact on kids. Are we still going to move forward and try to integrate kids in more? We're absolutely we're still going to

[R9497-161] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: superintendent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Brian Rapp: And I don't know if we have to readdress some of these. But yeah I need to hear your opinion on on the effect on on our, on our kids.
TEXT> I'm not I don't recommend it. I actually put one back down because. I think what we're really hurting right now is elementary. I think I think,  I think that that's where we need to focus some of our,  if we're going to, if I'm going to lose one and put one back in, I've got to put it down in elementary because our K1K21K12, it is absolutely ground zero right now for  our young kids who haven't extremely they're just not regulated at all. And people you can talk to principals we don't know what to do with a lot of these guys around their behaviors. And and I've said it more than once, it is not a special ed issue because buildings don't know what to do with kids. And the only thing they know to do after they've sort of have worked through whatever intervention cycle that they've been working on, they get done with. That is, we refer to special ed because that's the end of the line. We don't know what to do. And so we got we.
NEXT> Unidentified: We.

[R9497-180] Ben | Stevens High School assistant principal and special education coordina | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Department faces.
TEXT> And the student support team process.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9497-182] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 ('I've been in central office 17 years' [63]; Sp | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Earlier this week,  I sent you a saturation study after looking at your November 29th  school board  budget study session. And the next is to remove three teachers from Stevens High School to cut three staff. However, our  our adjustment would be to  reduce by two staff.  And I want to refer you to appendix B in front of you. If you were to approve this, if we were going to go forward and reduce staff,  there will be an impact on the school's ability to meet some of the standards. Charlie Jester has said something very interesting to me about a number of teachers, class sizes, reduction of staff because of you. Look at the student enrollment. You see one, you see 12. Wait a minute. That's 23. We don't need that class. But every time you make an adjustment, all right, there's going to be a ripple effect. As I explained to you in that memo that I sent you, on Tuesday the fifth, you're going to start to compromise some of the options for other students. However,  it's very difficult to justify that some of the  several of the small classes. So that's why  we are  have put three teachers on the table, but are recommending, in the spirit of compromise to to minimize that option, impact on other classes. If we went through with 3 or 2, you will be impacting other students not directly connected to those classes you've eliminated because you've changed their options.
NEXT> Unidentified: But aren't we in the restructure for the scheduling anyway? That would possibly. Either readjust. No.

[R9497-201] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent hands off 'Pat Berry?'  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: There's also.
TEXT> The  option would be for students to take language on blocks.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Which is very difficult a B

[R9497-204] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School (addressed 'I guess maybe  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That's the online schooling is that.
TEXT> Yeah. There's also a problem with like diploma requirements because like in order to get like New Hampshire scholars and stuff like that, like you have to have three years before in language. So but still you understand what I'm saying. Where if there a student like, in my case, I wasn't able to take Spanish one until my sophomore year of high school. So I'm doing Spanish three next semester. So therefore I would only have three credits. And I have friends that are in German for this year in their senior year. Like.
NEXT> Unidentified: There you go.

[R9497-206] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School (addressed 'I guess maybe  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: There you go.
TEXT> It's it's pretty difficult, especially to struggle with your schedule, your diploma requirements and like scholar stuff with. So that often plays a factor to not directly affects the students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So that's the effect on world language, the English position. What's the effect of cutting the English position.

[R9497-208] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent hands off 'Pat Berry?'  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: So that's the effect on world language, the English position. What's the effect of cutting the English position.
TEXT> That would have the least impact in the cuts in that across the board. That department has lower class size numbers.  And we could that's where we've identified. We have an extra position based on current class sizes. So, one position I believe has a total student  caseload over the course of a year of 60 students  for the year versus 120.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Three the larger class size.

[R9497-215] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent hands off 'Pat Berry?'  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Christine: and mathematics is where we can sell it. We need those to be strong skills. So I would just caution from a curriculum standpoint and a standpoint in meeting our kids needs, especially those kids that do struggle that's going to impact that particular population.
TEXT> One other thing to thank you, Christine.  Another thing is that the two departments that are impacted daily during flex the most are math and  English. So teachers can't find enough math and English teachers on any given day to support the students in math and English that need remediation and extra help during flex. You take one English teacher out of that. That's 20, 40, 60, 80 students a week that don't have flex access to an English teacher, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Has the program of studies changed a bit, like over the last few years for English.

[R9497-221] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent hands off 'Pat Berry?'  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: in order to level fund or nearly level fund budgets for 4 or 5 years now. And so there have been position reductions as well. And when you reduce positions, which is what you're hearing tonight, you also reduce some of that opportunity for electives.
TEXT> And the enrollment at Stevens has really only swayed about 35 students in the four years that I've been there. We were at 575 when I came on were at 346 now. And it you know, it constantly does this kind of thing. But that's been the, the sway is about a 35 student  back and forth. It hasn't hasn't plummeted. But we've reduced quite a few staff since I've.
NEXT> Unidentified: Been there. Can I have a fierce 14 year old lobbyist in my house. There who wants to.

[R9497-225] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent hands off 'Pat Berry?'  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: That we're not affecting any AP or honors classes with these cuts? So can you to that.
TEXT> It may affect our ability to hold. We have two AP in English. We have AP literature and AP language. So if we cut one English position and absorb those students in those sections into other teachers, it may not be possible for us to continue to carry two separate AP English courses.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's the options I was talking about.

[R9497-241] Lexi Grenier | Student representative, Stevens High School (addressed 'I guess maybe  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: Well, either or all.
TEXT> Okay.  Well, with my course load and a lot of my classmates course load,  I would not take an advanced placement class online because,  last year I took two AP classes, and I could not imagine trying to juggle one online with an online teacher and one in person in class.  For a regular elective.  I did that my freshman year, but it also all depends on your course load as a student. It's not. We can't. The problem with this subject to me is that we can't umbrella every student. Correct with V, because I take math online. I'm doing pre-calculus online because that's I learn math better, reading it myself and not being taught where like you Michelle, like you said that you you learn better face to face. Yeah. That's. Yeah. Like for me it's only for certain  certain subjects. You know, it's just weird. But, so we can't umbrella kids like that. And that's the part that's really frustrating to me.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And and to that point to, to other things that people don't tend to think about when we cut, when potentially programs like AP classes are cut, that affects our

[R9497-242] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent hands off 'Pat Berry?'  | 2017-12-06
PREV> Lexi Grenier: like you said that you you learn better face to face. Yeah. That's. Yeah. Like for me it's only for certain certain subjects. You know, it's just weird. But, so we can't umbrella kids like that. And that's the part that's really frustrating to me.
TEXT> And and to that point to,  to other things that people don't tend to think about when we cut, when potentially programs like AP classes are cut, that affects our school profile. Our school profile is what colleges look at. It's what places like US News and World Report when they rate New Hampshire high schools, and they have that 1 to 100 list and they look at your AP offerings. Another thing is the the  substantive change policy that Middleton referred to earlier this evening, which requires us to report, to ask when we reduce certain kinds of programing, student services, staffing, maintenance facility. We have to tell me ask about that, because that will then,  require them to revisit our current accreditation. Our current  plan in place and determine whether they still feel we should maintain our accreditation because our accreditation is based on staffing and services that they  saw when they came and visited us last October. So our requirement is if any of that goes away, we have to report it and then they'll read, visit our accreditation status. It's another potential consequence.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R9497-245] Chris | SAU 6 special education administrator (first name only: superintendent | 2017-12-06
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Reduction of four per professional positions that Stevens High School and program and IEP changes like that. Not at this time.
TEXT> One of the things that you  and your questions that you asked for is you asked you asked for some data around,  paraprofessionals who were not tied specifically to it. And so we've gone through that and we've gone through all the paraprofessionals, we've gone through all of the IEP students.  And we're at this point, we're coming up with we have four that I've identified that aren't specifically tied to, providing support tied to an IEP doesn't mean that they're not supporting,  kids who aren't identified, but it's just they're not it's not written into the IEP.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And when I say no elementaries, I say no elementaries. Like good. Thank God.

[R9507-21] Unidentified | Unidentified - short remark in the superintendent's cluster, speaker n | 2017-12-20
PREV> Brian Rapp: the board members to, to be called on before speaking and try to be succinct with your comments and discussion, and we'll try to get everybody out of here at a reasonable hour. So with that, we'll open it up for citizens. Comments. Can I.
TEXT> Ask the students to come forward first again? Sure. Not here. Too late.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Students?

[R9507-22] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda, calls votes and breaks  | 2017-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Ask the students to come forward first again? Sure. Not here. Too late.
TEXT> Students?
NEXT> Jesse Burrill: Well. Good evening. I'm Jesse Burrell. A junior at Stevens High School. And I'd like to start off by extending an invitation, since budget discussions affect programs within our schools.

