[R15786-217] Frank Sprague | Board Vice Chair; Finance Committee chair | 2024-06-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: we're able to talk to the kids. We're able to talk to each other. But it was much appreciated by, you know, school administration, myself and the students. Just to have us all kind of just sitting at the same table. So it was nice.
TEXT> You know, you're getting old when one of the administrators at the table with you as a former student.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah,

[R15786-222] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Well, it's my pleasure to go. It's great. That's one of those. I can't tell you how many of those things. I've attended a lot between Newport and Claremont and always get the same goosebumps feeling, you know.
TEXT> Making the common man for allowing us to to have it there. They're always very accommodating. The food's good. And kids were well behaved.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: They they I commented on that. They were very well. Well they were really good. What a nice bunch of kids. Seem like they're great kids.

[R15786-223] Frank Sprague | Board Vice Chair; Finance Committee chair | 2024-06-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: Making the common man for allowing us to to have it there. They're always very accommodating. The food's good. And kids were well behaved.
TEXT> They they I commented on that. They were very well. Well they were really good. What a nice bunch of kids. Seem like they're great kids.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: But that's who they are, who they are. That's why I can't stand such a bad rap, you know, in that building every day. And you talk to him. Well,

[R15786-226] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I was very impressed.
TEXT> Great. Great bunch of kids since I've been here.
NEXT> Mary Henry: That's good.

[R15814-13] Caleb | CITIZEN COMMENTER, Ward 1, Claremont - the only member of the public t | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: A minute. You got it all down.
TEXT> All right. Caleb. Billboard, Ward one.  Does the district have any early learning centers? So that's o six employees do not have to stress about finding childcare.  If people are going to spend money on childcare, why not offer this service?  To incentivize teachers to stay and also to attract new talent?  Second thing that I would like to bring up. Stevens High School spends over 25% of its budget on sending students out of district. Is it a priority of the board to open any facilities here in Claremont to bring this money back to the district?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Normally we don't give responses, but, we're thinking about all of those things. Moving next to the citizen. Excuse me. Superintendents report and the description of the end

[R15814-16] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: we've been doing at the sea level for increased communication and for for everyone's faculty, staff, board members. And so what you'll see within there, it introduces the team with the with the names and their position. And as you go along, we created this.
TEXT> Where do I go for system. And within that you have  all the various positions, department heads and their extension along with if you are looking for assistance  based on this complete list, this is where people can go to find the information that they're looking for if they can't get it online. So I want to include that in the board report. So some of the generalized district data you have in the report is  it gives you a graph of what we ended up with at the end of the year for the total,  ADM student enrollment for each school. So you have that in there, one of the first few pages. You also have some, discipline data in there in regards to overall, this is accumulates all the schools in the district who put their data into power school. You can so you can see the trends.  You can see you start off in September very minimal. And then we have the no surprise, we have the peak in March with the March Madness. And then it slowly, you know, goes in the end of the year, we have a small peak, but it gives the, the border indication of, technically what the environments can be at different times of the school and also gives you the overall,  numbers of infractions that were logged into power school for that particular month.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We also gave you the, the distribution. Male versus female. And regards to the discipline. And then moving down, you also have the total, And after that you get into

[R15814-18] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: I wanted to share that with the public and the board. That's something we definitely want to highlight. With their robotics, tech center, a lot of their stuff, they have a lot of good stuff coming up and had at the end of the year.
TEXT> So I've included that in there with some pictures. And then as we continue to scroll down through the report,  you do have some of the, unpacking of the workshop that you'll hear tonight from the S Rev presentation. I wanted to include some of the highlights from that. You also have some social service data that we have in here that was put together by Courtney. And so let's see. And then towards the end of the report,  you have things,  IAP students by building how many of you have in each building?  Also 504 students. How many you have in each building?  You have my end of the year message to everybody. And then after that, you just a compilation of all the the pictures of stuff that we had throughout the years that May appeared in my previous principal reports or superintendent reports. Almost like a end of the year kind of yearbook. And it brought us right up to, you know, the senior breakfast that we had. So there's a lot of good stuff in here to really wrap up the year, to really give a sense of what we've been doing this year, or at least in my past four months and six, a lot of stuff to be proud of.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And then we ended up with the the new calendar end of the year calendar. So, quite a few pages, quite a few a lot of information for anyone who

[R15814-39] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: alignment? The question is, do the CTE programs aligned with the in-demand and high speed jobs in the region? As far as size, scope and quality, do the programs in the industry standards, and do they safely accommodate students interested in a particular career cluster?
TEXT> When we talk about programs of study and the implementation of the programs study, is there a clearly defined sequence of both core academic and technical courses that will provide students with opportunities to prepare for those in demand careers in the region? Also, is there an opportunity for them to earn industry recognized credentials to participate? That can vary. Opportunities such as dual enrollment and to take part in work based learning experiences. We also look at recruitment and retention and training. Does the school and district have a plan for recruiting a  qualified teachers?  Offer the appropriate professional development and provide mentors and other supports to those CTE teachers coming from business and industry. And finally, we're looking at access and equity. Does each student in the district have an opportunity to participate in a CTE program that aligns with his or her career and life goals? So before we continue with the presentation, I showed this at the unpacking workshop and I think it's important for you to see it. I to set some context, you'll hear me use the terms career cluster, career pathway, and program of study. Often people will interchange these terms, but each one has a distinct meaning. On this slide, I'm sharing a diagram that distinguishes the meaning of each term.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: We borrowed this diagram from the Illinois Department of Education because I think it does a good job of providing a picture of what we mean by these three terms.

[R15814-40] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: to set some context, you'll hear me use the terms career cluster, career pathway, and program of study. Often people will interchange these terms, but each one has a distinct meaning. On this slide, I'm sharing a diagram that distinguishes the meaning of each term.
TEXT> We borrowed this diagram from the Illinois Department of Education because I think it does a good job of  providing a picture of what we mean by these three terms. Career clusters are collections of jobs with shared characteristics. It's a that have a set of foundational knowledge and skills that they share in common. And on the national level, all jobs are categorized into 16 career clusters. Within those career clusters, there are numerous career pathways. The career pathways are the sequence of technical courses related to a particular career, where students gain the knowledge and skills with the opportunity to earn those stackable credentials. And then we talk about programs of study. Those include the sequences of both core academic content within the secondary and post-secondary settings that a student would take in order to help he or she achieve their career goals and earn their appropriate credentials. In this one, and I know it's hard to see probably on the screen, but in this example it is of a health science, a rare cluster. And within this cluster are the pathways of health informatics, biotechnology research and development and therapeutic services. Followed by that are the programs of study specific to a data analyst, a bio medical engineer, and a registered nurse.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: When we talk about the program of study, we would talk about the both core academic and the technical courses one would take on the path at the secondary level

[R15814-42] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: good choices and becoming completer of the CTE program. Also, it assists with making smooth transitions from the post-secondary education to the workplace. Thus, you'll find in the red section of the report that we provided an emphasis on programs of study and career advisement.
TEXT> So I want to draw your attention now to the. That was on the completion of the review on pages four through 15 of the report, you'll find data that we analyzed as part of this process. We reviewed data elements where available for each of the Perkins five components. The data elements focused on student core indicators of performance, followed by labor market alignment. And these data points should be collected and reviewed annually, especially when you're making decisions about program quality, about developing new programs and implementing them in the tech center or in the high school, and maybe even when to sunset existing programs. You'll find in the report several tables and charts that you'll want to dive into and review carefully. And we'll be happy if we need to come back at another time to go into each one of these data points with you.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: Really courage that this data is analyzed by the school leaders, by faculty, by the CTE Vision Committee and community partners. And then the following questions really should be asked.

[R15814-45] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: I stated earlier, it's important for all students in the district to have access to information about course sequences that will help them achieve their career and life goals. I'm getting a lot of feedback. I apologize as I'm going through this. Check my body.
TEXT> But what courses are going to allow those students to achieve the credentials that are valued by your regional, business and industry, and what's going to help them transition smoothly into the workforce or into a post-secondary education and training system? That's why it's very important that they have these mapped out plans and understand what the endgame is, and the sequence of courses that they need to take. The full implementation of programs of the study are dependent upon an effective career advisement system, and the report provides some guidance on how to create such a system. We also talked about the opportunity to expand current programs and to look to, add new programs in the area of architecture and construction. You'll currently have carpentry  and plumbing. There's opportunities to expand with electricity and heating, ventilation and air conditioning in the area of manufacturing and manufacturing, production processes and engineering  opportunities to expand later. Really a great opportunity looking at labor market data to  find ways to  align your current  culinary and marketing program. To have a focus around hospitality and tourism. There's also an opportunity in the health science and the education clusters to look at adding therapeutic services, as well as teaching and counseling. Also, additional data that's been shared with us after our audit and looking at newer labor market data shows the  opportunity to look in the area of biomedical technology and its growth there in your region.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: Also, to see improvements in student achievement, students must be willing to put forth more efforts. And one strategy for helping students put forth effort is the integration of core

[R15814-48] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: the following steps. First, and I think you've already made some. The district has made some stride in. Starting to do this is to develop programs of study for all content areas, for the technical trades and areas, the Stem arts and the world languages.
TEXT> Lane out for your middle grade students, a path for them to see the academic and technical courses or courses of interest to them and their career goals in life that they need to take each step of the way as they progress through high school and the opportunities beyond high school for post-secondary  education in the region. Define the purpose and operating procedures for the CTE Vision Committee. It has a role, but it needs a clearly defined purpose and operating procedures. And third, create and implement a student advisement program  that begins in the middle grade and continues throughout the high school experience.  Those were kind of the order in which,  the results of our poll came out. So at this time, I've been talking a lot. Wanted to continue with next steps. Just saying. Reach a consensus on your CTE priorities to address in the next six, 12, 18 or 24 months. Form focus teams to address these priorities and to, you know, start to really, develop related strategies.  When I say focus teams, that means, you know, developing a small group of individuals among educators and community members, teams of 5 or 6 who want to really dive deep in each one of these recommendations, and they can lend their expertise to the one that they feel most passionate about, or where they feel they have a skill set to,  lean towards that priority.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: Identify data sources for each priority, making sure that everything is backed up by evidence, and then create a communication plan to keep stakeholders informed of these priorities and strategies,

[R15814-63] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: their high school career at Stevens had the opportunity to at least once have access to a trip like this. The trip is put together through the same company that they went on before, and I believe we even have a substantial credit with them.
TEXT> And as part of this, we're looking at  a five day trip and trying to limit it so it aligns with the people break minimize the time actually out of school.  And or prioritizing students and believe that there is in Spanish to. And if you guys have any questions I can do my best to answer.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: This to the board. Questions, Mr. Sprague?

[R15814-67] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: it's again, you're talking about immersion into the Spanish speaking language. You're talking about the instruction culture that seems don't have access to around here. And just trying to to implement the things that they've been learning for a few years in a native setting.
TEXT> Thank you. So would this be limited to you? Said Spanish, two students or those students that have successfully completed Spanish? Two.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R15814-71] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Spanish two at least. Yeah. So I'm wondering what the criteria is. If it's open to all students, if we're limiting it to specific students in that are in Spanish, two are above. And what the funding mechanism. What what the anticipated funding mechanism was.
TEXT> Oh sure. Yes. We're looking to get my colleagues. You're cutting in and out. So I'm trying to piece something together. So if it doesn't, I don't think you're  not trying to avoid. I'm just missing something. The funding method is mostly going to be funded  by the student, which is why I'm trying to get this in as quickly as possible. The parents, and  the company that they're working with said, the sooner that, the sooner the fundraising could start is for  families, and there is going to be some of them, they can avoid that.  I know the parent has several funding  fundraisers, wants to do, but have approval before we can start any of that. And again, the idea is to keep it limited to students are banished to an above.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other questions or comments from the board? Sounds like the the motion that we're looking for is to approve the initiation of fundraising. If we approve. I know in

[R15814-72] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: be some of them, they can avoid that. I know the parent has several funding fundraisers, wants to do, but have approval before we can start any of that. And again, the idea is to keep it limited to students are banished to an above.
TEXT> Any other questions or comments from the board? Sounds like the the motion that we're looking for is to approve the initiation of fundraising. If we approve. I know in the past first. Well, I know in the past there has been questions when educational tours, was offering these opportunities. In the past, there was some concerns about equity for student access and the limitations to students that may not have parents or support systems that have the financial means by which to, support this. That have.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Two years of. So those. Those are the ones to.

[R15814-75] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron.
TEXT> I'd like to make a motion to approve the  student's High School of Puerto Rico trip for the 2025.
NEXT> Unidentified: Second second question.

[R15814-78] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Further discussion. Crawford. How many?
TEXT> How many. Students are involved in.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I don't have a final count. I think that was and again, for giving me about 35. And it had to do with, it had to do with how many,

[R15814-80] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: was and again, for giving me about 35. And it had to do with, it had to do with how many, chaperons you need and like, personnel. So, I mean, I can get to a 300 again. We have to put it out for people.
TEXT> That's fine. I was looking at a target group, and, does the fundraising allow for  scholarships for students? But from. Lack of.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Doctor Harrington, the question was, does the fundraising allow for scholarships if the parental contribution cannot be met?

[R15814-85] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: So if we approve this tonight, is this the final approval or would this be just the approval to begin fundraising and and figure out a as it go?
TEXT> So, Doctor Harrington, the question is if the motion is approved this evening,  would this be an initiation of like an exploratory  process where we're going to see if the fundraising is available? We're going to see how many kids are available or is this approval for a go?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: My motion is to approve the trip and which includes further fundraising.

[R15814-92] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron.
TEXT> To what I've seen in the past was that their funding raising for these types of trips is that there's a the  estimated cost of the trip is $1,200, and then you fundraise to bring that 1200. So you know, you're going to pay at least $1,200. And then you fundraise to bring that $1,200 down. A lot of the fundraising is in the past has been it can be different, but some of it could be individual fundraising where, the student, the money goes directly to that one student, not to the group, but so that was my understanding of how these have worked in the past, is that, you know, you're going to spend at least this amount we're going to fundraise through as a group. We're going to fundraise individually to bring your total down.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Then as part of the I would, I would like to I do support this going forward. And I guess my comment is like to strongly urge the adults who

[R15814-95] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - his own onset, contiguous with 190  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any other comments. Or questions? Mr. Pratt?
TEXT> I know if they're. Doing these these kind of field trips in the past. Also keep in mind is that you do you you could also open it up to, individuals in the community who want to sponsor a student as well, you know, so you have sponsors as well can do that. But I, I done many of these field trips, and I can't recall any student who at least who didn't, you know, that attempted to raise the money, came up short, was not able to go that just  I  it's never I've never  been a part of that. We've always found a way to make sure as long as the student is pulling their weight and trying to raise the money, you know, the the group of adults working on raising the money, that's. I don't I've never seen that as an issue.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I would also ask, I know the music trip they took to Florida had was tied into a passing class. You had to be passing your classes and behavior. So

[R15814-106] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: Yes.
TEXT> So you have access to share your your your screen freeze. Okay. We can see your screen. I  can stop this off if you like. So so this discussion started she said, I want to say halfway through last year regards to looking at, period scheduling. And so when I turn it over, Doctor Harrington, I think one thing is to, is to tell people is that we're not saying that period scheduling is better than block, or block is better than period. Based on the data that  you'll be provided with tonight. We're basing, you know, moving to period schedules based on what we're seeing academically, behaviorally, and we're seeing for right now. We feel that, you know, the period schedule is what we need at the high school right now. It may change 4 or 5 years down the road, but with the population of students we have now, based on the the low test scores we're seeing and the gaps in learning that we're seeing based on a block scheduling. I think tonight in the presentation, what you see is that,  Doctor Herren and his team have done a really good job of, putting the schedule together in regards to, what's going to work best for our current population students at Stevens High School. So,  I'll hand it over to you, Doctor Harrington.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: All right. Thank you. And just making sure you guys can hear me. All right?

[R15814-111] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: is that the Excel diagnostic, which is really needed for remediation. Mr. Pratt, when you came in and it was the students were and that they needed a tool for remediation in 94.9% of the students tested, which is about half of the student body.
TEXT> So this does not represent the entire body. But what, you know,  far  greater level, which is a significant issue. So what we have is, for whatever reason,  whether it's, you know, reminiscent of Covid,  whether you know, or whatever, the student body is not academically where we'd like them to be. So when we proposed moving to a period schedule, there's really two main reasons we want to do it is providing academic continuity. And it's increased student teacher time. All right. That over really kind of what we're looking at.  When we're talking about academic continuity, we're trying to avoid the possibility of students  having  a class like algebra one, first semester, one of freshman year  and then not seeing math again until the second semester. You know, sophomore year. And when I was working, I asked our school counselor, I said, hey, you know, how often does this happen? Can you find me a schedule? And she went, yeah, sure. And for about three minutes  to find us where this happened. So it's fairly common. And, you know, unfortunately,  with our population, which has a significant special ed population, and I'll try not to go into two too much detail here, but what the largest category of special ed is a specific learning disability.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: And genuinely, almost every student with specific learning disability, has difficulties with recalling information to the executive function issue. So if you're not in it for want for narrative time,

[R15814-112] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: this happened. So it's fairly common. And, you know, unfortunately, with our population, which has a significant special ed population, and I'll try not to go into two too much detail here, but what the largest category of special ed is a specific learning disability.
TEXT> And genuinely, almost every student with specific learning disability, has difficulties with recalling information to the executive function issue.  So if you're not in it for want for narrative time, or you're out of content for a significant period of time, recalling new information becomes so much harder. And while that's a significant issue for our special ed relation, it's an issue for everybody. If you don't do something for a year, you're going to forget a lot of it and you're going to have difficulty moving on.  So moving to a period schedule puts you in a math class all year for four years. It puts you in an English all year for years. It's  better academic continuity.  Other things that,  in our opportunities with the academic  continuity is that you can link the remediation of Excel to class for use right now. The students are kind of pushing on Excel. They need it. It's difficult to work on something that you struggle in it, but it's not like you agree. And unfortunately, when you're in high school, the grades matter. You know, they're looking for credit.  They're not necessarily looking just better than they. They want to move towards graduation.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Being in a class or year allows you to do that, where if you're outside of that class in a block schedule, you can link it to grades. Another thing

[R15814-113] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: to work on something that you struggle in it, but it's not like you agree. And unfortunately, when you're in high school, the grades matter. You know, they're looking for credit. They're not necessarily looking just better than they. They want to move towards graduation.
TEXT> Being in a class or year allows you to do that, where if you're outside of that class in a block schedule, you can link it to grades.  Another thing that we can do if you're in a class all year, is linking  a standardized test like the AP and the staff into test scores into your platform. And I do not mean this in a if you do well, you get points. If if you do,  it marks against you.  I don't think that work. This is more of,  using some sort of rubric to be developed as far as the indicator that show that you're putting in effort and you're trying a length of time. Time on task. Things like that. That can be added as a bonus to your  class grade. This students who take these tests more seriously. And it only works if there. If you have everyone actually in a class, which doesn't happen in block schedule at the time. Tiny class. And this is, this is the tough information is when we move to the digital path system. And we were we were able to pull that data.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: The average path time being made is 15 minutes. That's 15 minutes out of class for these kids. And that tells me personally they can't sit in class for 78

[R15814-127] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board - five short fragments interleaved  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: to go doesn't have to be in the middle of the day. If we can go block one, put a block one. If it can go block, you know, block seven, put it in block seven. So what this did is it allowed greater flexibility.
TEXT> To me that was one of the biggest issues always has been because it would eliminate kids from coming up here at the third block.  And any honors classes are going on  pre-COVID. Or something. It eliminated.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R15814-136] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron.
TEXT> I'd like to make a motion to approve the students high school handbook, including the schedule change.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Second. I'll second.

[R15814-139] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board - five short fragments interleaved  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Further discussion.
TEXT> Okay, one more comment. So I just want to share, my own experience. And this has nothing to do with you. This is data.  And, the. What. We're doing, the kneecap testing. We would have kids that were, fast tracking through math. They would take they would take algebra  at the middle school, then take geometry, algebra two, then pre-calculus headed toward calc their senior year or what? Advanced math, whatever statistics. So we were looking at our kneecap data, and we had kids that were in prickle that were not proficient on  in math when they took the kneecap as 11th graders. So you say, how can that possibly be? You've got kids in advanced math classes. So we went back and we drill down into the strands and it was geometry. They had taken geometry as first semester freshman. And now here they are essentially second semester junior taking the cap. And he took geometry two years ago. And so,  Doctor Harrington made that comment earlier about the gap, being from one year to the next year. And it's even worse than that sometimes when, particularly in the case of geometry, from our own data that we looked at back when I was at the high school. So math it's important to have that continuity. Yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.

[R15814-141] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.
TEXT> I fully support this this change. My biggest concern is, that the students and parents have enough lead time to understand,  how they are impacted with the changes. We hear that a lot that that parents don't understand the  rationale. Yeah, the rationale, the reasons for doing it. And, that they're I don't know how they would be impacted, but I want to make sure that their concerns have been addressed.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Doctor Harrington, is there a mechanism in place to communicate with the students of Stevens High School? To disseminate this information and their parents and provide them an opportunity to

[R15814-142] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: the changes. We hear that a lot that that parents don't understand the rationale. Yeah, the rationale, the reasons for doing it. And, that they're I don't know how they would be impacted, but I want to make sure that their concerns have been addressed.
TEXT> Doctor Harrington, is there a mechanism in place to communicate with the students of Stevens High School? To disseminate this information and their parents and provide them an opportunity to have questions answered and addressed?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Sure. I've been using to communicate with parents at the end of the school year. A couple of days ago, I had a couple of teachers to come up to

[R15814-149] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - recognised by name one second ear | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Frank Sprague.
TEXT> So, I'm wondering if this is just from my own scheduling mind. Is having the seven period day makes it easier to level classes out? For example, things like band and chorus being in third block the way it used to be.  And if there was, say, a AP US history that period. And there was another section of US history, AP US history, none of the band and chorus kids being one, they'd all be in the other along with all the other kids. So you might have one AP US history that had eight kids and the other had 28 kids because of  in a block. So I think that's what I hear you saying, that it might be easier to level the classes off and make them more consistent in size. Therefore, on the average, the classes would be smaller. Am I close?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: A come out a few times? But I believe you are right in the ballpark. There's some caveats to that. And and not getting into it too much. But, you

[R15814-164] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: somewhat negative impact. Some about a quarter said it's much worse. But when you when I dig a little deeper into that much worse and we look at the comments about and the, the, the comments are classified as somewhat better, much better, somewhat worse.
TEXT> And the much worse comments are, from an adult perspective, not so severe, I would say. So one was, without having phones in school, we won't be able to capture funny moments with our friends  and we look back on our camera. We won't see the good times we had. And so not having that is available in school has made it much worse. And other comments that showed up a lot with the students have found other ways to communicate. Shockingly, they found other ways to play music.  And we're, you know, with technology, you're always fighting that battle.  But it's still easier to manage from a classroom perspective, manage a laptop than a cell phone. The phones are still present in the school. There's still an issue with air Buds and that a phone can be out of the bag, invisible, you know, not visible to the teacher, but a student can still be listening to music or anything through the phone, and it wouldn't be obvious. So there's some changes still, I think to. Make the the  policy have a better implementation and kind of achieve the goal of students maintaining their attention on the things they should be.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I think some of the stuff that we, that we saw, we we started seeing immediately when we had the had the students put their phones in pouches and

[R15814-165] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: to music or anything through the phone, and it wouldn't be obvious. So there's some changes still, I think to. Make the the policy have a better implementation and kind of achieve the goal of students maintaining their attention on the things they should be.
TEXT> Yeah, I think some of the stuff that we, that we saw, we we started seeing immediately when we had the had the students put their phones in pouches and stuff.  We we saw a huge, huge decline in bullying and harassment. We saw a decline in, students, incidents taking place in the bathroom. Texts each of them. You know, we saw an increase in students talking to each other, interacting more with each other in the cafeteria. We saw increase in student teacher relationships in regards to  time on learning.  And that was right off the bat. You know, so, you know, when you roll out something like this, it's just a huge change to the school environment. You always have to take a look at, you know, what can we do better? You know, is there a compromise that needs to be made? I think for the most part, it's when we first rolled it out. All students, you know, they put in their phones in the pouches and we checked them every morning coming in and stuff. Continue to do that, you know. But students find ways they'll show you the pouch and, you know, they'll say there's something in it. They could have a dummy phone and stuff like that. But it's really about creating, you know, at least at the high school level, good habits, you know, whether they're in their pouch or they're away. You know, we're still getting what we need.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The students are doing what they're saying. They might not be in the pouch 100% of the time, but it's out. It's not, you know, distracting. You know, one of

[R15814-166] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: it. They could have a dummy phone and stuff like that. But it's really about creating, you know, at least at the high school level, good habits, you know, whether they're in their pouch or they're away. You know, we're still getting what we need.
TEXT> The students are doing what they're saying. They might not be in the pouch 100% of the time, but it's out. It's not, you know, distracting. You know, one of the things that administration we have to look at is that, you know, they can put them out, they can  put them still, put them in the poetry in a bag, but still have access to music with with the eye buds, with the earbuds. So there are things that, you know, with anything new that you're allowed, you have to look at and say, okay, is this worth  the battle or are we getting what we want for it for a while? And that's something I think we'll continue to look at, and we'll be able to look at it even on a bigger scale. Elijah scale. Now that the middle school is going to have the phones. And I think it's people have to understand the way it's, you know, works at the high schools is going to look different at the middle school, middle school, you know, they might say needs to be in the pouch. We need to see it and it needs to be off.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You know, you might have to go back to at the beginning of the year to to do the same thing when we first rolled it out to high school.

[R15814-168] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board - five short fragments interleaved  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: feedback in the, in the results. But I think the, the, the pros outweigh the cons when you have something like this. And how much of an impact it can make negatively on a school climate, just being able to have them at all times.
TEXT> One quick comment. So maybe we should start and looking at the student comments, start teaching kids how to read analog clocks in kindergarten.
NEXT> Mike Koski: It's that one was funny, that it was unexpected. It was an unexpected.

[R15814-172] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: In fact, that's nothing new. I remember when I.
TEXT> Had my my own children struggle with analog.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's nothing new.

[R15814-175] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: No matter how much time we've spent on it.
TEXT> I appreciate the survey, because that that really gives us some, some feedback about responsive of the staff and and the students. I fully support continuing the policy.  I was listening to public radio the other day, and I did hear, a report about, phones out of the classroom, and they said I was I was surprised because it said 51% of the high schools in the U.S. have done something to eliminate phones from classroom. And I, I  was shocked, I was I really I didn't think it was that, huge a number. But I think, you know, when we look at some of the, statistics that came up earlier  about the, competencies and the level of, achievement that we're getting, not having phones in the classroom might help that. And, and to have parents be supportive of the schools, eliminating the phones from the classroom would be much appreciated.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, I.

[R15814-179] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: very supportive of it. You know, for situations they, they can come down the office, have their phone unlocked and used it. So we try to make these accommodations along the way where we were listening to the parents, we were listening to the students.
TEXT> So and I think that, you said was absolutely true, that they, that there are some students who will find ways. But, overall, it's been a success.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Peterson.

[R15814-182] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: point, we really need to look at, holding the kids accountable for not using their phones. Having and I know it's a big undertaking, but having teachers enforce a universal rule of no cell phones, and somehow taking that step to doing that without pouches.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, you bring up a good point, and it's something that we spoke about right from the beginning. We spoke as a faculty, and we said at some point,  and we're hoping to do this around this past December, but we've had a spike in kids having their cell phones out around the holidays. And so, you know, our attention, our intentions were to have a rollback day saying, you don't need to put your phones in your pouches just to see if we're creating better habits or is it being changed, like you said, just because they're in the pouches or we actually creating, you know, when to have them out and when not to? I think that's something always on the table. But I think, you know, with all the transitions this year, we didn't get to it. But I know in December I was like, okay, we're thinking about rolling it out and,  you know, having a rollback and I and then  we just had a spike of kids coming down and having their phones out.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I was like, well, obviously we're not ready for it. That speaks volumes about it, you know? So, Donald, we'd like to have a a rollback one day and

[R15814-183] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: year, we didn't get to it. But I know in December I was like, okay, we're thinking about rolling it out and, you know, having a rollback and I and then we just had a spike of kids coming down and having their phones out.
TEXT> And I was like, well, obviously we're not ready for it. That speaks volumes about it, you know? So, Donald, we'd like to have a a rollback one day and say, you don't have to be punches. We just want to see how things go. And, you know, that could be very enticing to some kids. If you go through the day and it works out well, then you can, you know, you can start rolling it back a little more and more. That's a bigger conversation to have with the administration and the counselors at the the school to to see when the students might be ready for that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The smiles.

[R15814-194] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: poachers. And then usually if you need more pouches, you just pay for the pouches you want. You know, a lot of times you just pay an annual fee and do you send them a pouches and they send you new ones, but it's minimal.
TEXT> Thank you. My $0.02 is Jonathan has a book out about this. Right now. That is driving conversation in Congress about actually putting warning labels on social media because of the detrimental effects on mental health and adolescence and kids, babies going like this with their finger with in the air and there's nothing. There that's terrifying. That's the that's the pathway that they burned. Number five is financial update. Miss Mary Henry, our business administrator.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Okay, quickly. As of May. 31st. You had. 870. Thousand and $35 in surplus. That doesn't. Include. Any additional surplus that you would have had in your, in your revenues

[R15814-234] Noelle Kronberg | SCHOOL BOARD CLERK, Claremont School District (appointed 11/15/2023; t | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: So is there any other comments or questions before the vote? I'd like to call for the vote. Mr. Cronenberg, would you please read the motion again?
TEXT> Yes. There's a motion to across the continent for $82,000 to cover the repairs to the route. Citizens married. And the third phase of Stevens High School student by the name of weather guard to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: All in favor.

[R15814-241] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mary Henry: Okay. I'm sorry, I didn't hear it, I apologize, thank you. Yeah. I just wanted to make sure. Thank you.
TEXT> All right. We're getting a little pinch for time here, and I'm going to try to keep us on schedule, so breeze for this as quickly as I can.  There is our next item. Item agenda. Agenda item is a development of a communication ad hoc committee at our retreat in May. It was decided by the board or identified by the board, that communication between the board and the community could be improved. The recommendation was made that there was a development of a communications ad hoc committee to address these concerns and to create systems for critical communications, for votes and budgets, and also for communicating with the public the anticipation of policies and procedures that would affect students and families directly,  and to identify trigger issues and have routine public concerns. A mechanism by which to, communicate what we think could possibly be trigger issues with the public so that we can draw them into the conversation. Do I have any any volunteers for one more committee? Arlene is not here.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yeah.

[R15814-296] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's what. We discovered.
TEXT> And so you can see the some of the subcategories here. You know, some of the things are obvious things like conventions, which is punctuation and capitalization, paragraph structure, things like that. Organization and purpose. How is the story structured? How is the argument structured throughout the paragraph and then throughout the story? And then, being able to elaborate,  you know, bluff did. Excellent. And elaborating on a point in, in making a narrative essay. And, and so there are areas that students have done very well, and they vary by grade and they vary by school. We just need to start to make this a more consistent effort. And I would I would say, you know, we're in the first year of a reading and writing program. We have a professional development day on September. September 10th next year. All about writing with the with the program we're using. I expect to see the scores improve.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So do we.

[R15814-304] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Remember literally hurting kids writing kids down to make sure. So kneecap.
TEXT> It is my understanding, though, that if a child doesn't take it at a certain level, it's recorded as a zero. Yes against us.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So after.

[R15814-322] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: meetings in July, but no officially. Duly noticed. School board meetings. And I do just request the chairs of the subcommittees to review, what the deadlines are for, bringing forth a purpose statement, developing, meeting cadence, etc.. I did send a letter out for that.
TEXT> For future  agenda. Some next, next school year. Some point. Just wondering  the data on 504 plans. You know, the numbers that we have now compared to historical numbers, are we are we going up? Are we leveled out? And maybe a little insight or little insight as to what they're one of the 5 or 4 plans are for. Just when I hear that some kids have 504 plans, that they can leave the class and take a walk. It's just kind of interesting to see where those plans, you know, what they're for and.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Got it on the list. Now you're on the list.

[R15947-10] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: 504 is just to remind us is.
TEXT> A it's for for students that may be, dealing with a long term ailment that disrupts their everyday access to education. And that could be anything from a physical disability to a mental disability. Emotional disability,  a handicap.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Yeah.

[R15947-12] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Yeah.
TEXT> So,  if you look into your report under the 504, you can see the the increase of Bible fours over the ten years. And if you notice the year, the pandemic, it really jumped up a lot, you know, to 100. And then it steadily continues to grow from there based on the needs we're seeing from loss of learning and other areas that we saw that. So it varies at each school. And you can see any report and regards to how many students are on Bible fours for each building. That broke it up that way. I also broke it up into, how many students are  on there for maybe it might be learning something might be for hyperactivity, attention deficit disorder, and some of you might be on there for more severe things like I see stuff. So the report you have, it's over a ten year span. So you can really see that there is indeed an increase in it's in multiple different areas. But the.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: With that.

[R15947-14] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: With that.
TEXT> The number of students with 504 cans and special needs has increased the notable rise in those with ADHD, anxiety and depression. So that's where we're seeing the police. For our district, the biggest jumps are in those areas. So there's a lot of information there, but feel free to reach out to me if you want further clarification on some of the data that we gave you. That specifically around 504 is in this district. It'd be more than happy to sit down with you and, and, talk about what we're doing to. Deal with this might go into increase in Bible fours.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Are you done with the report in its entirety?

[R15947-18] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: One more come back after.
TEXT> So, so it's like you said, it's no surprise we all knew the numbers were going up. But, you know, over this ten years, we've been seeing how much they have gone up. You know, they've doubled in some cases. But on a lighter note, is that, looking at the data for new teachers coming on board two years ago, we hired 42 new teachers. Last year was 36 and this year was 21. So we're doing a better job of attracting and retaining good teachers, you know, at the district. So I wanted to share that with a bit of information to all of you. Also some of the professional development that came from Michael's office is that on Wednesday, August 21st, which was today, we had K-5 teachers engaging in a session of accountable talk at the in the tech Center, and grade six through 12 were introduced to kind of ego, which is an AI framework that be using on 5 to 12. Now the auditorium tomorrow we have K-5 and title one teaches a launch of Eureka two and grades six through eight. We'll do more work on focused accountability talks in nine through 12. They have a session on teacher moves for improved student engagement that aligns with the district goals and success bonus and personalized learning. And that's going to be in the library at the high school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So I don't know if you have any further questions on that. Michael can answer the questions in regards to, whether it's kind of ego or accountable talk, but there's

[R15947-22] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - the AI/'MeeGo' answer Pratt hands to | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: Sure. It's an A.
TEXT> It's an artificial  artificial intelligence program. Okay. So students are using it already to write essays.  Oh,  questions. And so we're introducing the teachers to what they can use on the teacher side, but also to be aware how students are using it. Got it.  And we talked about how can we change it. There aren't really going to be tech tools because the official intelligence will just keep matching any blocks. And so we've got to change our instructional practice so that we can make sure students are doing what we think they're telling us they know. Right. We we went over some techniques and just presented some information on ways to manage and  deal with artificial intelligence with classroom.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you.

[R15947-24] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you.
TEXT> Can I just add a few more things. So would the information you have in your packet just know. And some of the recovery efforts that we're looking at school implementation at  school implementing interventions such as tutoring programs, some alarming initiatives and increasing teacher support, and the continued emphasis on technology to support personalized learning and address gaps. Because we know right now math and English, we continue to see those gaps, even though they're getting better. Based on even a few years ago. We still want to tackle that and then we're to the future will look us on, continue to look at focusing on closing the achievement gap, enhancing student engagement and improving overall performance. Now I'm really done.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any questions about the superintendent's report?

[R15947-34] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - the district's answer to the chair's | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: So a.
TEXT> Five it is a  identified student.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Right..

[R15947-41] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - the district's answer to the chair's | 2024-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: Help me. Go ahead Michael.
TEXT> So there are two different things okay. On the IEP side of the special education side, yes, there can be some money that come back in terms of Medicaid reimbursement,  that is, for students who are receiving related services. Speech, OT, PT, you know, but it's got to be somehow medically related to their disability. The 504 I mean, it's.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's an accommodation.

[R15947-51] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (chair since 4/5/2023, re-elected chair  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Mike Koski: Hold your breath waiting for.
TEXT> Mary might be able to add and there's some through adequacy aid. So if they're identified, we do get some money for each of those identified students. EP it. Yeah, but not  not  i.e. that's what I was assuming. Yeah. Okay. Arlene was first and then Arlene. Is it still the case that a 504 would be a precursor to a formal evaluation to.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Try accommodations? No, but is it. I mean, do we do we have students who start with accommodations and then move into.

[R15947-52] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member - the chair calls on her by name in the  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: some money for each of those identified students. EP it. Yeah, but not not i.e. that's what I was assuming. Yeah. Okay. Arlene was first and then Arlene. Is it still the case that a 504 would be a precursor to a formal evaluation to.
TEXT> Try accommodations? No, but is it. I mean, do we do we have students who start with accommodations and then move into.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Sometimes, yes, but not always.

[R15947-54] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member - the chair calls on her by name in the  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Mike Koski: Sometimes, yes, but not always.
TEXT> Because I'm looking at the learning disabilities. Right. And these are students who do not have IEPs included in this 504.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Right. There are students in it might have learning disabilities, but not to the point where the second adverse effect that they need.

[R15947-55] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Because I'm looking at the learning disabilities. Right. And these are students who do not have IEPs included in this 504.
TEXT> Right. There are students in it might have learning disabilities, but not to the point where the second adverse effect that they need.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Right, right.

[R15947-76] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee. CHAIR | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Civil rights.
TEXT> I have a second question is wait. No, don't don't leave me. It was just here. It was just here. Okay. Yes, it was about the accommodations are there.  Are there like any emerging trends in the industry specifically for students who are identified with ADHD and maybe ADHD, Add and ADHD? Are there any, like, emerging trends in the industry on helping  the students and possibly the family? And this also may require resources. I understand that resources that we don't have helping more with like management of symptoms. I don't know how to describe it. So a personal standpoint, there's a lot out there for adults now for like managing symptoms related to like hyperactivity and distractions and Add and whatnot. Are there like emerging things happening in public elementary schools, for example, to help children and families learn how to manage symptoms and still be successful at whatever you're trying to achieve, like with with something like Addie.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah, that's.

[R15947-78] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah, that's.
TEXT> You know, that's a huge role that, you know, educators are dealing with. Because usually if you have a student who's Addie or ADHD, usually depression, anxiety goes along with it. Not always, but usually. But that's what we're seeing in the classrooms now, is that trying to prepare teachers to how to work with all students and, as they get older, trying to work with that student to identify what works best for you, what your learning sound, what you need medically or physically. So moving forward post high school that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You.

[R15947-82] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - the middle-school self-regulation tr | 2024-08-21
PREV> Whitney Skillen: And I'm wondering if these kids are getting the support and the help to be like, hey, when you're feeling a little distracted, you might be able to put your energy into this little thing and get back to your goal. Does that make sense?
TEXT> So one of the it's not the elementary school, but we've targeted the middle school this year for that training where we're we've had a team of teachers from the middle school learn a bunch of training teachers. Teachers. Yeah, but the teachers will then train the other staff to teach students how to pause and just reset themselves. Okay. So they can go back to learning. Okay. And how do I,  when they're off track and they're getting a little caught up in the little whirlpool?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: That's what I was looking for. Yeah.

[R15947-84] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - the middle-school self-regulation tr | 2024-08-21
PREV> Whitney Skillen: That's what I was looking for. Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. Just different techniques to reset themselves. So,  I'll give a plug to, it's John Wharton, and he lives locally. He's an author on the subject, written several books. He's really giving up a lot of his own time to work with us.  And so he's he's going to meet Friday with the middle school for the entire staff, and he'll be working with the middle school the rest of the year. And we're kind of piloting. And if it works there, stretch it out to the other, the other areas. But you're right, that is a need. A lot of it is due to screen time, and kids don't manage their world and their turn. And so we've got to teach them some techniques. Yeah, yeah.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Good question. People who think it was a plant because of all the work we've done this summer.

[R15947-91] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board; CHAIR of the Finance Committee. Th | 2024-08-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: So, so, typically.
TEXT> The case management for 504 is falls to. School counselors. Correct? And I know when I was in that role, I had caseloads. And typically from my experience, which was substantial, really, when I would explain what a 504 plan was, I would say it answers the teachers question before they ask it. And so it's a plan that follows the student. So here's a student that says, I need to go to the bathroom. And the teacher says no. And the student may have a kidney issue or some some physical issue, whereas the teacher gets the plan ahead of time. This student will be allowed to go to the bathroom without question when they ask. So these are the types of things that are contained in a 504. Okay. For that type of I've had kids with cystic fibrosis, kids with migraines different  and typically the migraines was  we had a very restrictive attendance policy, Stevens High School when I first started there. And so that was very common because kids that were in the throes of that could be exempted from the attendance policy. If they're. Migraine so different. It really is,  more of an information, in my experience, where you're passing along information to teachers rather than really expecting the teachers to do, you know, active things  other than really just follow what's in the body.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Okay.

[R15947-95] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: It's it's it's more about teaching them how to manage it. Yeah. For long term and not just accommodate it.
TEXT> And there are some accommodations that are going to be needed for the rest of their life. But there are some others that kids can learn coping skills and strategies to get away from those accommodations.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And there are ways that you can.

[R15947-101] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member - the chair recognises 'Arlene, just.' ( | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Arlene, just.
TEXT> Very quickly. And I also think the training is wonderful because it gives the teacher and the student common language, and then it's not disruptive to the classroom process. So  this is great.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R15947-105] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - two clipped fragments of his own sen | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: And just one other thing.
TEXT> We've all figured this out. Somehow without being taught. And a lot of people do. But there are specific things that if you aren't. Being. Successful managing yourself, that you can you can do. And so we're just we're just teaching kids those, those skills.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right. So I'm curious if part of the training, one of the things that that I battled for probably 20 years was the fact that often 504 plans were given

[R15947-107] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: give an IEP, but we gave them a 504. And so what's the disability? Well, they need the they need something. So I'm hoping that part of the training would be. So that doesn't happen because it really should be an actual disability. That entitles.
TEXT> That in over the years they've kind of taken that up a little bit. Where it goes to there has to be some sort of medical documentation. Before you put a student, 5 or 4, it might have to come from a psychologist, it might have a doctor and stuff. But I know in the short term, I was in high school work on the 504 teams. That was a very important part of the process of involving the parent in regards to what have you done, you know, so we just don't jump to this. There are certain processes, as you know, that we we should be following. We know that, like you said there I've seen it. Where. Yeah. It's just a they didn't fall for this but we're going to put them on 504. But I haven't seen it at the high school teachers and stuff in the short time I've been there. Because, you know, we really go through and try to have the parents involved because they're going to push back and say, look, we get it. But at this level, we need some sort of documentation from X, y, z.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. All right. Thank you very much. I'm going to move on to the first action item this evening. And it's a presentation from Tina McCusker about girls on the

[R15947-218] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: other. Buildings. And what was in what we spoke about is using this year to say, okay, this is if it seems to be working, we want to create a long term plan, and that would look like they would hire their own assistant director.
TEXT> We would still have hours here and they would continue to do the the lodge management systems manager, decisions at the directors level. So we created this job description and I think everyone got a copy of the job description based on just reports over the years and what we can get out of it. You know, we're able to, you know, hire this position for less than,  we're currently paying Doctor Herzog. And so, there's no increase to the budget. Figured out a salary for this position. We're Patrick and I looked at it, and because it's really assistant director is not in the current CBA for administrators, we kind of put it between a principal and, what are the positions they call on the. Schools, the Student Service Corps. Student service coordinators. And so the the pay for that, she would be making the same as, like an assistant principal would be making that we see around 80,000.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We want to make a motion and then have our discussion.

[R15947-310] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Okay.
TEXT> So so you guys still have that  upon me. Say we don't we don't we don't approve. Assistant director.  We want a full time director. Just a director. And, you know, and that's fine. I understand your frustration and not something you had that. But from my I had to, you know, I had to make a decision because of the urgency and put in the students person regards to. I need someone in here. I don't feel I'm settling with this person at all.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mister patron.

[R15947-506] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (chair since 4/5/2023, re-elected chair  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And we have plenty. Of people. The information about. And people can read it and any questions feedback okay. So that's for the fourth okay.
TEXT> Yep. We can do seven.  So I think what we're going to do tonight to kind of keep within our time frame is do number seven,  number eight, which will include, portions of number nine, which is subcommittee discussions. So  for item number seven, I met with Chelsea a few weeks back and we looked at competing dates. We've over the years had issues with our activities of the school board, buzzsaw into other important activities within the district and in the municipality.  And so one thing that we had was that the  Claremont School Board meeting conflicts every single year with the senior student night board, which is the Wednesday before graduation. So the question before the board is, do we want to permanently change  our date to be two  day for the first week of June? That way we will not conflict.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What if we go into that second week because. Because that first week is graduation week, and administration has all kinds of stuff going on.

[R15947-521] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (chair since 4/5/2023, re-elected chair  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah that's fine.
TEXT> We just be moving the meeting. We just be saying the first meeting in June every year is now going to be on Tuesday. So it doesn't conflict with student senior student awards night. So it.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Would be for this coming year, June 3rd, the first Tuesday correct the week. Does that work for administration? Oh yeah. They got a lot of the stuff.

[R15947-533] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (chair since 4/5/2023, re-elected chair  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Multiple: Aye.
TEXT> Not opposed. The motion passes. So for the minutes when Noel gets to to them, we are going to permanently change the first meeting in June for the Claremont School Board to in perpetuity, to be held on Tuesday two so it does not conflict with the annual senior student awards night. Moving on to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So just a quick question. Once underclassmen awards night.

[R15947-548] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee. CHAIR | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Anything from the policy subcommittee? I know it's been a busy summer. Not yet.
TEXT> No, but  I, starting this fall, my. I'm shifting my weekend days to Mondays and Tuesdays because I'll have, like, weekend facilitation time with my students. And so that actually opens up, like some regular business hours where I can do things out in the evenings.  So more to come as like as soon as school starts, I feel like stuff is going to like, change.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Great. Thank you.

[R15994-15] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: going to technically close the public hearing. Moving on to our discussion and action items. Some of these were pushed over from our last meeting. Item number one is a discussion of the region ten agreement. The presentation will be from Mr. Pratt and Mr..
TEXT> Good evening everyone. So this is the annual agreement of the regional council, which is for Claremont, Newport and centerpiece.  Some of the obvious changes that you'll see in the agreement is just updating the dates in regards to how long this agreement is in an act.  It also talks a little one of the major parts of this agreement. Some of the things we have to talk to, talk about and make sure that we're all on the same page with things like transportation, how many seats, the school gets at the other districts, for instance, Claremont School District. We get six the. So we have Claremont get six seats. Newport six and son of P two seats. And that goes both ways. In a lot of times it's for part of the region ten agreement is making sure one not competing in regards to we're offering the same courses at Claremont and Newport. There are some differences and we could have similarities, but we should have different pathways and stuff. So that kind of outlines kind of like the what we're all agreeing to do as working partners and providing students with tech education.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And that's, you know, that's pretty much it. You said we talked about tuition, transportation. If there's a dispute between the two parties of the sending district, you know how

[R15994-16] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Chris Pratt: at Claremont and Newport. There are some differences and we could have similarities, but we should have different pathways and stuff. So that kind of outlines kind of like the what we're all agreeing to do as working partners and providing students with tech education.
TEXT> And that's, you know, that's pretty much it. You said we talked about tuition, transportation. If there's a dispute between the two parties of the sending district, you know how we resolve those. And it's all in line with  the New Hampshire Department of Education and working together. It's it's just a an MOU, really, of agreement between all the tech centers that we're going to work in good faith, with each other to provide these students this education.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.

[R15994-38] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2024-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So how do we do? We charge Newport. Anything for bussing if.
TEXT> Okay, if we're sending kids to Newport or they're sending kids here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Don't we bring their kids back?

[R15994-39] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected vice chair 3/20/2024) - | 2024-09-04
PREV> Mary Henry: Okay, if we're sending kids to Newport or they're sending kids here.
TEXT> Don't we bring their kids back?
NEXT> Mary Henry: If we bring their kids back, we're picking up our kids, aren't we? I'd have to look at the route.

[R15994-41] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Mary Henry: If we bring their kids back, we're picking up our kids, aren't we? I'd have to look at the route.
TEXT> Yeah. The way the route is, it's like it's,  circular. If they're coming here, we're sending someone there so we never have to make a run specifically just to bring their kids back. We're bringing their kids back as we're picking ours up. Right?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How did they get back to Newport after the last class of the day?

[R15994-43] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - the clipped onset of his own answer | 2024-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: How did they get back to Newport after the last class of the day?
TEXT> Someone picks. Him up. It depends on the class. Because we usually have kids. We may have kids there at the end of the day.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Over there.

[R15994-143] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected vice chair 3/20/2024) - | 2024-09-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: He doesn't have it. Right. This is the whole option.
TEXT> So,  what I'm leaning toward is that having been a former guidance counselor and having been an administrator,  a lot of the guidance was counseling things that I would do as a guidance counselor. I continued to do when I was an administrator.  So I suspect that in her interactions with kids that are either highly engaged or disengaged or whatever they are,  she is going to do some of that. I don't think she's going to be able to do the outreach, but who knows? That's what opportunities may present themselves. But,  again, I agree with Mrs. Hawkins that to me, the ideal model would be you to be the director sort of de facto and then the assistant and then her take on the role as career counselor as well. But, I don't I that's just, I don't see I don't think that's realistic, really. And, no offense. No, I just don't. Which it is too much. And, but I feel okay with it because I think if we go with you sort of being in the background or being the assistant that she's going to do a lot of those functions anyway with considering  her background is.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So. Yeah, I mean, you're right. I mean, as you know, it's kind of like a, as a, as a superintendent here, you know, in this district, I find that

[R15994-185] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board (re-elec | 2024-09-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: based on the percentage of the budget. So when we we talked we talked about communication responses, planning services and requests for information. And you will see under communication responses based on the 7.8%, we rounded it to, any communication responses should go to unity.
TEXT> Within a week. Planning would be focusing on high level critical issues. The degree of service outside the regular work week. So we talked about that. The superintendent would attend each Unity School board meeting, but that other members of the administrative team would attend as needed. When it's agenda specific,  outside of regular working hours, and then any post meeting follow up would be presented at the next Unity School board meeting, excuse me. Requests again would be no longer than a week. The importance of alignment between school districts, school calendars because we have unity students coming to Stephens. If the calendars are not aligned, it creates difficulties for the families and the communities. We also talked about unity.  I mean consistent building safety procedures so that it's consistent across the say you to to minimize the amount of risk students and families might be going through decision making, curriculum and assessment, because we are an saw that does have an aligned curriculum, instruction and assessments. It's important to also align PD with that across Claremont and Unity. So we're trying to what we looked at was aligning more as an saw  and receiving comparable services  evaluation instruments. And then from the business office special education following protocols timelines so that everyone knows what's happening when it's due. And based on the percentage of allocation, we can all be satisfied with the services that are being met.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So this is the report that's well, actually these are the minutes from the meeting. There is a tentative report based on these minutes. If the board is comfortable with

[R15994-223] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2024-09-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: To either be their administrative staff or someone to take some of the tasks that are time consuming from the essay. Did I say that correctly, Mr. Pratt? Mary.
TEXT> Can I just make a comment? Remember, that number fluctuates every year because it's based 50% on assessed value and 50% on student ratio. So the year before they paid almost to 300,000. But because Claremont's property values  went up so much, that amount dropped substantially. So just so you know, that that does fluctuate based on those things.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I didn't realize property value.

[R15994-227] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned as a write-in in the March 202 | 2024-09-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Patron.
TEXT> A couple of things. I wouldn't be looking to make any changes as far as giving up more time from the s a you,  if you wanted to spend more money,  I would not be in agreement to giving up more of our more of our time to go there.  I don't think it's necessary.  And then I guess something down the road, decreasing, you know, $193,000 a d if we were to take that all in. I'm not sure if there's anywhere to decrease that. It's a relatively small amount, a dollar amount in the grand scheme of things. So when we're talking about the question of, you know, not to get anybody worked up and if there's any type of using staff or reduce, I can't see where we would, you know, be able to reduce to, to make up that cost because it's like taking two kids out of a class. You go from 28 to 26, you're not going to reduce your teachers.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So we did just lay it all out, right.

[R15994-236] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected vice chair 3/20/2024) - | 2024-09-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague, did you have.
TEXT> A comment? No, Mike,  I was going to use a little same analogy he did. It would be,  like if we lost 20 kids in the district and somebody said, well, 20 kids, you can cut a teacher. And that's.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: But they're only in. Right?

[R15994-250] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair at the 3/20/2024 organ | 2024-09-04
PREV> Chris Pratt: 6:00 at the Stevens High School auditorium.
TEXT> And it will be an opportunity for the community and the parents and students, if appropriate, to get a look at how the the strategic plan is being developed and have an opportunity for input  as parents and community members.  We also have an Saw six board meeting on the 12th. Our other board meeting for Claremont is on the 18th. We are moving forward with our joint City Council and Claremont School Board meeting on the 30th, and we have our finance subcommittee dates already in the books as well. So unless there's any questions, comments, concerns, I would like to adjourn the meeting. Seeing no objection. Meeting is adjourned.
NEXT> 

[R16011-37] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Heather Whitney: Very good.
TEXT> It's just to lighten the mood and, you know, for the teachers. So, So the as you know, the high school adopted the yonder pouches last year and the middle school has done it this year. So we have more continuity between the two schools. And one of the bigger things you'll see in the, the unofficial superintendents report is that  we did a lot of work this summer and end of last year to really align what the elementary school caused a progressive behavior support matrix. And that's what all the elementary schools are working off of in regards to dealing with student behaviors and the middle school and high school.  For the first time have their behavior matrix pretty much well aligned.  So was setting up,  kids for success in regards to if you're dealing with something at one school, they can expect the same thing at another school. And so we're we're proud of the work that we put into that. So we're  being consistent in what we're doing. And so that takes up a lot of the report in regards to the behavior matrixes, above and beyond. And I'll talk a little bit more about the the report for next month that I'm working on now, just to bring you up to speed on some things.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: School safety is always one of my first priorities and concerns. And, I know since I started here, each school had their own radios, but we couldn't really communicate with

[R16011-166] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024) and chair of the SAU 6 | 2024-09-12
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: formatting for the website, nothing involving the policy itself, but just for lack of a better word, cosmetic or accuracy. So the first thing we do have on that is that there are minor revisions policy A, B, B, which is the drug free workplace.
TEXT> You don't have that in your packet, which is adopted in 2020. It was misquoted on the website. So instead of reading a, d, b the website listed it as a b d. So I asked Chelsea to just correct that on the website. We talked about it at the board, at our policy meeting, and we're just letting you know that that's already been corrected. The other thing that Miss Weatherford is doing, banker, thank you very much, is reviewing the website link so that all the headings on all the policies are consistent and they look the same. So it's a cosmetic change, but it it presents that page as being better organized and well informed. So those are the two minor modifications that we are informing the board about. Nothing major. Now we will go to policy BEDG which is meeting minutes. This is the second read we did amend after the first read. If you look I believe it's page four B four. I have been added. Every effort will be made to limit the recommended duration of students to less than ten years. That was amended at the last meeting, and we also added the New Hampshire statutes at the very end. RSA 18929 and also 91. We always put in the legal references and we neglected to do that on this. So we did that. Kelly.
NEXT> Kelly Simpson: I appear to have a really dysfunctional packet tonight. I just want you to know I have several of two. So your your BEDGI have two that looks different.

[R16011-218] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024) and chair of the SAU 6 | 2024-09-12
PREV> Kelly Simpson: To tell. You have it. Is it.
TEXT> Yeah. Well then if someone had one I'll look at hers. No, I don't have it. I'll take it. So if someone from the policy committee would be willing to actually get a. Copy this right. What we've done with this one, we had we have a policy in place, but the policy we currently have is limited in defining the types of products that are banned from our buildings, both school buildings and the dashboard. So we incorporated the sample. You'll see what's crossed out. You'll see that there are now, I believe, seven definitions, whereas the current policy has only four. We deleted the section referring to students. Right. And other than that our policy stays the same. It's just this is much clearer about the types of things that are excluded and not allowed. Includes liquid cigarettes. So so this is the first read of this policy. I'd like to make a motion to adopt policy A, d, c prohibitions regarding use and possession of tobacco products. First read to adopt this at first read..
NEXT> Kelly Simpson: I'll second.

[R16011-243] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024) and chair of the SAU 6 | 2024-09-12
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: exploring the impact. And so you have in your packet the exploratory ad hoc. When we presented the report to the Claremont Board, they asked that we presented at this meeting so that everyone is aware and all the information is clearly outlined for everyone.
TEXT> So you'll see that on page one, it talks about the budgetary impact of  Should Unity depart the essay. The impact on Claremont. Currently, unity contributes 7.8% of budget costs. We then said, all right, if there's an option for increasing services to unity, and you'll see that on the first page as well. And the portions are determined by student population and property values per district. On page two, which is on the back of that page, we see that we clearly went through what the impact would be, whether it would impact the essay administration or staff would impact the building level allocations. Nothing was done in detail. This is just information on how it would impact. On that same page, you'll see that should Unity and Claremont remain as the essay six and what we did was we codified standards for procedures and protocol so that it's clearly laid out for both districts. And that's that's what's in the rest of the report. The community in the next page, the communication responses for Unity and Claremont. This relates specifically the unity based on the percentage of the contribution. And we followed, protocol that Mr. Pratt is developing throughout the essay for staff internal  US. Yes. You board the Claremont Board and the unity board.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So there is that we base it on that communication protocol. So for unity you'll see the time frame. And for Claremont the response to communication is 48 hours. That's

[R16011-244] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024) and chair of the SAU 6 | 2024-09-12
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: the communication responses for Unity and Claremont. This relates specifically the unity based on the percentage of the contribution. And we followed, protocol that Mr. Pratt is developing throughout the essay for staff internal US. Yes. You board the Claremont Board and the unity board.
TEXT> So there is that we base it on that communication protocol. So for unity you'll see the time frame. And for Claremont the response to communication is 48 hours. That's that's different. The planning the degree of service. Quite honestly it's going to be the same for both districts. Our administrative team is working very hard. And so what this report indicates is that people from the administrative team will come to board meeting if they are on the agenda, with the exception of the superintendent, who will be at every board meeting or his representative if he's unable to attend. So that's the same for both districts and the request for information. You see what it would be for unity, and it would be 48 hours for Claremont. And the last section of the report is the reasoning behind the alignment between the two school districts. Steven's High School is the anchor school and is here. So families who have students in both places. My incorrect in that if I am tell me I felt we had an agreement.
NEXT> Kelly Simpson: Okay.

[R16011-248] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024) and chair of the SAU 6 | 2024-09-12
PREV> Kelly Simpson: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. And that students may be attending Stevens, who live in unity. And if there's a snow day or a safety issue to be consistent across both local districts, we've indicated ways that there can be alignment between both local districts for the year, and these would be pretty much inclement weather calendars, professional development opportunities  because the curriculum is aligned across the saw,  opportunities for professional growth should be provided equally to both local districts. And the last section down there talks about operational efficiency by aligning timelines, deadlines, protocols. The Saw will run more smoothly and efficiently and by having it all laid out. Everybody knows where we're at and it's been codified for us, so there's no disparity. So that's the report from the Claremont AD Hoc Committee. You have this in your packet. I hope you had a chance to read it.  I don't know if you have any questions or comments. Kelly.
NEXT> Kelly Simpson: The request for information from Muni that these response times are going to stay at no later than one week.

[R16011-272] Rocco Ruggeri | VICE CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (elected 4/11/2024); Unity School Board  | 2024-09-12
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It's you put it.
TEXT> It does say that though. I'm sorry. And then you go on to say we'll respond to unity within a week because they pay less and will respond to Claremont. And I mean, you're just like literally drawing a line between the two communities based on how much. So the reason we pay less is because we have less kids. We have less needs. That doesn't mean that you treat us like second class citizens, where we don't need to be responded to in 48 hours because we pay less. I mean, just the rationale when I read the report was really,  it it was disturbing. Okay. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: That's great. It's important that that be talked about. It's really important. That's the purpose of the report was was not to say you want more, pay more. The purpose

[R16011-347] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: kids, what are we going to do for the kids? We might not agree with each other, but if we're doing what's best for the kids, then I think it kills us in regards to as adults. So, you know, I, I appreciate the conversation.
TEXT> They are difficult conversations  and it's unfortunate sometimes we have to have them, but not having having them and even do more damage by not doing that. And I appreciate, you know, just being able to sit back and listen  to everything. But we got great teachers, we got great administrators, and we get great kids. And we just got to stay focused on on the prize. And that's that's them.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Future agenda items. We've asked. I've asked what the administration to provide a timeline for audit reporting by the auditors, the SA six audits. And I understand we should have

[R16011-358] Kelly Simpson | Unity School Board member; SAU 6 Joint Board member; SAU 6 policy subc | 2024-09-12
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Other. Other business. I have a motion to adjourn. I'm sorry. Kelly, I'm sorry I didn't see him. I apologize.
TEXT> I feel bad for that person that left to, Website. A lot of old stuff is sitting there, you know, Mike. So, like, your website has 20, 22, 23 student handbooks, no current. I was looking for calendar the other day. This is why I came across it. You got a 2223 Stephens High School bell schedule. The unity site.  Hang on. Sorry. The unity site is showing at least more current stuff, but 2023 to 24 bus schedules for the east to west  a family. It's all 2324 stuff. I feel like there was something older though. Hang on,  I don't know, could maybe we.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. Principles of working on that usually, like when I was at the high school, I would do that September and October update pitches and I know they're working on

[R16021-4] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, PRESIDING in the absence of Chair  | 2024-09-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Whitney. Marlin. Sorry. Early knocking here.
TEXT> Okay. We have a consent agenda in front of us. As far as,  the agenda and minutes approval, are there any adjustments to either of those from anyone? Seeing none, we will, take a vote on. Approving those. All those in favor, I, I  posed. No. We're fine. Okay. Citizens. Comments. I don't see any citizens, so we'll close citizens comments. Student representatives. So we'll go to the superintendent's report. Great. Good evening everyone.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So this month's superintendent report provides a comprehensive overview of the district's current initiatives, achievements, and ongoing challenges across schools and departments within six. The report highlights the district's commitment

[R16021-10] Patrick O'Hearn | DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES, SAU 6 (started Monday 4/15/2024). The cha | 2024-09-18
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: from staff. So some of the themes that I found when reviewing the data was burnout from staff. And that's not a surprise to folks that are participating in the strategic sessions, because we're looking at turnover, especially for those teachers in the first year.
TEXT> Two and three years is a really crucial,  years that kind of drive, long term retention, lack of support. And that means tools and resources to  execute their job,  or that means  lack of support in terms of having a relationship, mentor  or relationship with their supervisor. Heavy workloads was something I saw quite consistently.  Especially with  special education paraprofessionals and support staff. Challenging student behavior was a trend. Inadequate compensation.  And then this one. Mostly I saw around  support staff. So less so teachers had compensation as a factor.  And then  pretty consistent theme was frustration with lack of clear communication and prompt responses from administration. So that piece is two fold. It means  both clear communication the building level and then the central office. So any questions on.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And this is based on last year's 2324.

[R16021-22] Patrick O'Hearn | DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES, SAU 6 (started Monday 4/15/2024). The cha | 2024-09-18
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Yeah, I, I you kind of spoke on a little bit, but I'm wondering, like, where are the opportunities that you already see for us to fill these gaps? And do you think there are initiatives that we could implement, like in the near future?
TEXT> Sure. Great question. So I'll kind of first,  reiterate some of the key themes and then I'll go into kind of recommendations.  So key insights and section three  compensation. So again this was mostly highlighted around support staff.  Like para educators paraprofessionals. There's PD a lot of talk and professional development.  And if you look at the actual quotes in the exit interview, I saw that there are folks that specifically called out, I am looking for PD opportunity for X, for Y or for Z. Particularly there is one support staff who said my role doesn't seem like PD is tailored for me, right?  Work environment, so high case loads.  There are a couple call outs of challenging student behavior.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We talk about high caseloads. We're talking specifically with, Special. Special special education.

[R16021-30] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (Stevens High School principal through 1/11/2024 | 2024-09-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: about partnering with local business to have, like a, a Cardinal discount card for your teachers. So if they go to the restaurant down the street, they show the card they get or their name badge, you know, they get a discount in certain places.
TEXT> I know, yeah, I know a lot of,  I know we did it at the high school, and I know that some of the elementary schools and doing it is too is that, you know, we started that last year and getting the community involved in regards to we you know, we've done it for students in the past, but now,  with teachers and stuff like  East School might have a teacher of the month and within that they get, you know,  a gift card or something like that to something in the community. And I would say the community was very great stepping up in providing these for the for the teachers.  I know at the high school we had,  you know, each month, you know, a member chooses someone else and they pass on the, the golden apple. And part of that is, you know, the community generously donating gift cards or what have you for the teachers. So, you know, we're going to continue to build on that because we want,  teachers, just like students, to be recognized when things are going well. And a lot of times the best way to do that, if it's coming from their peers, not necessarily administrators.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So and, and

[R16021-158] Candace Crawford | BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2024); Finance Sub | 2024-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: But we also learned that, the bulk of the. Absenteeism is about it's not 100% of our kids. It's about 30% of our kids.
TEXT> It's the same kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Contribute to.

[R16021-192] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (Stevens High School principal through 1/11/2024 | 2024-09-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: other field trips scheduled, for example, the culinary arts are going to Will orchards to see the apple picking, apple processing, apple pie making cider making that whole thing. I, for one, a big advocate of field trips. So I was delighted to see that,
TEXT> Student of the month.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And there was student of the month. I mean, that was another whole thing. We we talked. I mean, my gosh, it was it was astounding all the things that

[R16021-193] Candace Crawford | BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2024); Finance Sub | 2024-09-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: Student of the month.
TEXT> And there was student of the month. I mean, that was another whole thing.  We we talked. I mean, my gosh, it was it was astounding all the things that were happening. And it was it was really encouraging. And one of the best things I'm going to let Mr. Pratt tell us about a career counselor has been hired.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So, you got a career counselor? Thank you. Good night. No, she's, She's someone I started working with when I started in Vermont about 20 years ago. She was my

[R16021-194] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (Stevens High School principal through 1/11/2024 | 2024-09-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: we talked. I mean, my gosh, it was it was astounding all the things that were happening. And it was it was really encouraging. And one of the best things I'm going to let Mr. Pratt tell us about a career counselor has been hired.
TEXT> So,  you got a career counselor? Thank you. Good night. No, she's,  She's someone I started working with when I started in Vermont about 20 years ago. She was my head of counseling, and I was in Brattleboro.  She's a graduate from Adnoc.  Her husband is a tech center teacher who taught at the  tech center, who also knows Michael here.  That's that's her. That's her thing is career counseling. And,  today was the first day, and Michelle has already got to work,  on creating some stuff, but,  it's going to be  very exciting to see the two of them work together. She's got and it's I don't know if it's possible to have as much energy. As possible. As Miss Harrington, but she's she's pretty close in regards to that. In fact,  when she was at she was one of the counselors when Miss Rhines was a student there.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Oh, wow.

[R16021-197] Candace Crawford | BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2024); Finance Sub | 2024-09-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: was instrumental in, you know, working with the tech center and the, the council over there. So looking forward to great things. I mean, I echo what Candace is saying. It's just it's 17 days of what's been done already. I just can't believe it.
TEXT> I forgot to mention a really important part two is, as you will recall, our budget included expansion of the program to include  a medtech kind of program and that she has it up and running. There are, I think, 16 people.  In she has she set it up as a nine week introductory and she has 16 students already enrolled, 16 or 17, 17, 17, 17 already enrolled in the  nine week intro to  to the program. In addition to that, she has five students enrolled in level one of the two year program so that there's lots of energy. And it's a brand new. It's actually it's a brand new program that is in is going and and it's sequencing the learning experience.  I also and please Bonnie or Frank, I mean excuse me, Bonnie or Mike, please share anything else that I might have left out.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Well, I think that when she started speaking and she had her. Laptop. Out there and she was. Showing. Us these things with the students, how what they're doing and

[R16021-198] Bonnie Miles | BOARD MEMBER; SRVRTC Visioning Committee - answers Crawford's invitati | 2024-09-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: brand new. It's actually it's a brand new program that is in is going and and it's sequencing the learning experience. I also and please Bonnie or Frank, I mean excuse me, Bonnie or Mike, please share anything else that I might have left out.
TEXT> Well, I think that when she started speaking and she had her. Laptop. Out there and she was. Showing. Us these things with the students, how what they're doing and what they like and what they've accomplished and how it just revolves from one student to another. You can just stand there and watch the whole thing. And I was I thought we were all going to have a lot of questions for her, but she covered everything. There was really not much left to ask. She did it all. Thanks, Mike.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah, I mean, it's been impressive, I think.

[R16046-32] Yoshi Manale | CITY MANAGER, City of Claremont - the chair hands the first agenda ite | 2024-09-30
PREV> Yoshi Manale: maintained a close, collaborative relationship focused on addressing the housing crisis and impact on the city and school district. At their most recent meeting, they discussed the ongoing housing shortage and rising rental costs, which continues to pose challenges for families and the city's resources.
TEXT> The city and saw reaffirmed our commitment to supporting Claremont's families, particularly those at risk of homelessness, and will continue to work together to provide emergency housing and maintain stability for students experiencing homelessness. Our cooperation in this area is vital to ensuring that students remain engaged in school, even during difficult times. On the topic of libraries, library director Michael Grace recently met with Jean. Right? Right.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right, right.

[R16046-34] Yoshi Manale | CITY MANAGER, City of Claremont - the chair hands the first agenda ite | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Right, right.
TEXT> I'm sorry. Right. Yeah. The variant at Stevens High School discuss how we can better serve  high school and middle school students. We face a shared challenge in encouraging students to utilize physical books. But we've seen strong interest in historical research, where the students often turn to the city's library for resources. They also discuss the potential for sharing reading lists and research projects ahead of time, which could help align our resources. One of the more ambitious ideas they discussed was creating a joint catalog system, allowing students to access the holdings of the school and city libraries easily. Though challenging, this would be a significant step or strengthening our educational resources. I'd also like to share some exciting developments in our Parks and Rec department. As you know, Stevens High School uses city parks for its athletic fields. Maintaining these fields is a joint effort requiring significant time and resources from the Parks Department to streamline this. We've discussed creating a sports field specialist position, a seasonal role focused on field maintenance during the spring and fall for the school and city recreation programs.
NEXT> Yoshi Manale: The school district has expressed interest in subsidizing this position, and we are exploring ways to include it in next year's budget. Moreover, we recently had a demonstration of Perf

[R16046-38] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: we all know when when people move into an area, if they have film is one of the first things they're going to look at is what the schools, how the schools are, doing in regards to test scores and what we have to offer.
TEXT> And that's something that we want to continue to build on. We talked about reporting the foundation. A lot of people say, oh, you're you're rebuilding a school district. Well, in order to rebuild something, you have to have all the pots. And so right now we're still looking for those pots, but we're going to get there.  I think it's just for me, it's just very important that we move together as a school, in a community, to meet the needs of, of students and the economic growth that we want, that we all want to see for Claremont. And I think the only way to do that is continue to work together and push forward, continue to meet, continue to have those open dialogs. And I'm hoping that tonight,  from the school standpoint,  everyone here will get a better understanding of,  what, you know, we we're faced with, with the state. You know, we all know we get a lot of unfunded mandates that we have to meet, but it's just taking you through the process and what we go through with the budget, where we're heading in regards to academics.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: With seeing some improvement, I think you'll be able to see that tonight. So I think it'll be a very good, discussion tonight. And I hope you're getting the information

[R16046-40] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: you know, I think we should continue these, these meetings moving forward. So both sides know that we're doing everything we can for the taxpayers in the community to improve it, you know, from top to bottom. So I thank you everyone for coming tonight.
TEXT> Next item on our agenda is a presentation for Michael McCusker, our Director of Student Services.  And the topic is the impact of our local demographics on our school budget.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: I came fast in the meeting. Have a little more time to hide. So I like Heather's analogy of an old house, because every day I leave work and I

[R16046-52] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Expensive? Yeah.
TEXT> Do you mind giving the council some  idea of what an out of district student costs the district and the impact of.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Of, you know.

[R16046-54] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: Of, you know.
TEXT> One of our added district students or Mr.. I can I can.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I. Can talk. To that a little bit.

[R16046-57] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: But on the extremes. Yeah.
TEXT> You know, to get down to the nitty gritty right now, it's like  special education funding  spending for Claremont is second only to,  employee salary and benefits, for instance, right now, you know, full disclosure, we have about $4 million tied up in out of district placement for about 33 different kids. And so,  it's like we talked about special ed carries a lot of costs. And that's when you really get into some of these unfunded mandates where, you know,  if a student, you know, needs a one on one power, you know, we've got to provide that with a, you know, we have the body is a not and that's where a lot of the expenses coming from within a school budget is that, yes, we do get reimbursement for some of the stuff. But the amount of money we're putting out, we're not getting the return on. And that's why it's, one of the things we continue to talk about is how can we stop bringing students back? You know, what does that look like for Claremont? Because you figure for spending $4 million, even if we get, you know, three students back anywhere between, you know, without transportation, you're looking at 75, $80,000 just to get them there.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And then it goes up from there. You could be paying much as 100, over $100,000 for one student if it's not a district placement. So we're really trying to

[R16046-59] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: tied up within our budget. Like it's it's only second to employee benefits and salaries. So, you know, we're really trying to focus on that. Because like we said before, it's all coming out of the same pocket. It doesn't matter where we're spending it.
TEXT> I mean, taxpayers, a taxpayer.  So, you know, special ed funding is, you know, it's it's not unusual to have a district, you know, be, you know, in the top two things in a budget. But that's something we really have to take a look at in investing, finding ways to get out of district back because that's I feel we can do that. And we shouldn't be having to spend, you know, the sum of $4 million for 33 students when we can most likely provide that education right here once we have a program in place.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Anything else. You have to add? Moving forward, we're moving on to Katlyn McLaughlin, our director of curriculum and instruction. And she's going to tell us a little

[R16046-67] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 - presents the K-4 spring reading-leve | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: we have, if that's our target, I think we would be doing a really good job ensuring that all of our kids have an educational experience that provides them with opportunities for success. And ultimately, I think that's what we all want for our kids.
TEXT> I just have some early reading data. In 2122 we were still using. Oh thank you. We were. Off target, so to speak, with our learning materials. So here we're our spring reading sports. This is grades K to four. In 2122 I go back and forth on these slides a couple times so you can do a comparison. Then we have 2223 and 2423, 24. What we want to see in this green striped zone are  students reading above grade level. Green is on grade level, yellow is a year behind and red is more than two years behind. So we have 2122 where we weren't aligned, 2223 we implemented and we saw some growth that year. 2324 we saw more growth. It's the second year for Ela. We expect these cohorts to move up the grade level each year, thus having more and more students reading at grade level.  So we when we have students in the red, they're not able to stay up with curricula or, or content because they're not able to access it because of their reading difficulties. And so as we improve those reading scores and you can see it's not an even distribution by grade, we have  different groups of students achieving at different levels, but we're seeing an increase in the number of students at or above grade level. We expect that to continue, and then we expect to see that move through the grade levels each year.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I think, you know, to echo what Michael's saying, if you look at 21, 22, you know, you can see the, the, the amount of yellow and red and

[R16046-68] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike Koski: grade, we have different groups of students achieving at different levels, but we're seeing an increase in the number of students at or above grade level. We expect that to continue, and then we expect to see that move through the grade levels each year.
TEXT> And I think, you know, to echo what Michael's saying, if you look at 21, 22, you know, you can see the, the, the amount of yellow and red and it's only been two years. But if you progress through the other two now you're seeing more green, less yellow and less red. And that's the that's the trajectory we want to see and continue. But I think in just in two years, we've made enough strides that we're seeing the progress and the growth of the new curriculums that we're creating, because this is the kind of data that when people are looking to move to a community, this is what they want to see. They want to see growth and think, just in the last two years, are we seeing the growth we want? No, but we don't see anything. We don't see us decreasing. We don't see us plateauing. There is some waiver of growth within all the different grade levels, even though it's it's different. So we're we're improving already. Now the next step is to make sure it's consistent as much as we can through all the grade levels. We're definitely seeing growth. It's just not the rate that the state wants to see it. But kids are improving in the past two years.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And and the reason for showing these early grades is this is where our focus has been. We're starting at the early grades, building the reading level base of our

[R16046-77] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: our company right now so we can get everybody back aligned again. I just wonder how how is that play into those two years of three new things with the math, the L.A and the new report cards? Are people playing along? Is there a.
TEXT> So I've created district curriculum documents that provide guidance in terms of what should be taught when I don't expect teachers to be all teaching the same lesson on the same day, but I do expect them to be within about two weeks of each other. Okay. The goal is to make sure that all students at the same grade level have reasonably similar learning experiences, so that when they go to the next grade or to the next school,  they're all at more or less the same place. Again, there will be variation, but we want to decrease the level of variation that we've had and certainly begin shifting towards the higher end.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R16046-82] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: for our students. So just publicly, we thank the taxpayers for supporting, the board initiative to get our teachers up at a market rate, or we can attract the folks that we need to do the job that needs to be done. So thank you.
TEXT> Question to answer that question as well. Their core cards are critical because they provide that structure. Teachers have to fill out the report cards. It's a legal document. I wanted to make sure that what's in the report cards and what's in the standard. Speaking so it. Gets reported. So I wanted to make sure that what's on the report cards and what's on the standards match. And that creates a structure that also encourages teachers to play by the rules because they understand that you're going to have they will have parent teacher conferences, and they need to provide parents with information regarding how the child is progressing. So that helps to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Council.

[R16046-84] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the analytic questioner. Asks  | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Council.
TEXT> Well, we heard earlier how poverty can really develop. Program and the challenges. That. Claremont faces. And I could see that. Get the potential for that to really skew some of this. In your opinion, these challenges are the challenges that we face. Is it stabilized, is it getting worse? Is it getting better, and is it a critical variable in assessing the improvements to the program and students?
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: So I think it's definitely something to be aware of. We know that there's there's no question that poverty has an impact on a child's learning. However, we also know

[R16046-88] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: to make sure that they're in that state to learn before we can even present them with the the materials that we're talking about. Now, that's a huge shift because like we talked about earlier, with that shift comes, you know, the cost of it.
TEXT> You know, we're not just we're just not providing them education. They're academics like we used to. Public schools have become  we got to take care of the whole child. 360 and I don't think, you know, we are prepared to do that in such a short amount of time.  You know, with, with the additional services that we need to provide with social workers and,  site school psychologists and clinicians and stuff, it's a whole new world. And I think we're just trying to navigate that now and how to make it work the best we can.  For students in the buildings and teachers to, you know, it's a different experience for teachers. They're not just in a classroom teaching academics. A lot of times they get to get the the behaviors and the social and emotional stuff on the control before they can get the students in a place to learn. And I think that's, you know, one of the challenges we see in trying to raise scores.
NEXT> Unidentified City Councilor: So I understand you're focusing mainly on lower, building up that lower level education and helping that, but I haven't heard much about those that already exceed those standards. And

[R16046-94] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 - presents the K-4 spring reading-leve | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: It's ongoing data points, so we know what we're doing is working because with that cost, cost money. If if we keep doing good after bad, we want to make sure what we're doing is cost effective as well.
TEXT> And the other great part. Of one of the. Aspects of the quality curriculum. Is that it. Brings the lower students up to. Speed, but it also extends the lesson. For student. Who's already there. And so our de la program has those built in extensions. So you've got whatever you're reading a story, but you've got a student who already knows that story and can read it a higher level. Well, let's I'll send you these a couple of resources that extend that theme and you get to read those things. And so without it's not just more work, but it's worth at a higher level. And so all of our in the math program has the same thing as those extensions built in. Like for students who work. The microphone, please. Sorry. Yeah. A good curriculum. Has those extensions built in for students who are ready to do more. And so it it it offers flexibility to the teacher. Use these pieces. Use these pieces depending on where the student is.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We're trying to raise the bar for everyone, not just students, but teachers as well. Administrators. We want to raise that box so we can tell that next level, because

[R16046-95] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike Koski: who work. The microphone, please. Sorry. Yeah. A good curriculum. Has those extensions built in for students who are ready to do more. And so it it it offers flexibility to the teacher. Use these pieces. Use these pieces depending on where the student is.
TEXT> We're trying to raise the bar for everyone, not just students, but teachers as well. Administrators. We want to raise that box so we can tell that next level, because that's when real things happen, and that's when people, you know, outside of the everyday school can see start seeing the growth.
NEXT> Unidentified City Councilor: Yeah, I can understand, you know, you got you got to build up the farm. But and that's, that's good. You know, I see the numbers and it's, it's improving

[R16046-96] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the trades/industrial-arts cou | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: everyone, not just students, but teachers as well. Administrators. We want to raise that box so we can tell that next level, because that's when real things happen, and that's when people, you know, outside of the everyday school can see start seeing the growth.
TEXT> Yeah, I can understand, you know, you got you got to build up the farm.  But and that's, that's good. You know, I see the numbers and it's, it's improving which, which is a positive. But I also notice that as kids go through, like I'm saying this, I didn't see that with some kids going through over the last ten years. So it's, so if we're starting that program, that's awesome.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. I would agree with you. The data supports your viewpoint. You're not wrong. And you'll hear some of that when Candace gives a report about the tech center. Because

[R16046-108] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: development of individual IEPs for students identified as needing special education services. Again, this is all out of our hands and what we have to do. But we have a team that does that. And Mike McCosker could speak more about that than I could.
TEXT> And this is when we get into, you know, the high costs that we see that drives the school budget is the special education cost, because at any point, you know, we might start the year with so many kids on IEPs. As the progresses, you know, we might get more kids who are qualified. And. Say, I have. But now, you know, based on that, we got to make sure that one, we have special educational needs. You know, we don't want to overload the special education teachers. I think in one schools right now we get a case of 46 kids. Ideal caseload would be probably the most points. And so that's that's kind of what we're we're dealing with. Because if we're not what happens if we're not providing the services. That means we're called out of compliance. And then the state with us on that or the lawsuits could happen. So this is where a lot of the you see a lot of the money goes into is is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Microphone at the podium.

[R16046-118] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Procedural safeguards. I probably won't go into a lot of this, but,  the statue outlines procedural safeguards in place to protect rights of students with disabilities and their families. Transition Services 186 C addresses the need for transition services for students with disabilities as they as they prepare to move from school to post-secondary education, employment and independent living. The other thing the state has done is increase the age in which we have to take care of students from 22 to 23, so now we are required up.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: To 21 to. 22. Oh, sorry. No.

[R16046-123] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: That's what I thought. Okay.
TEXT> Would that mean. So what that means is a typical student would graduate, you know, 18. So a typical student would graduate from high school. 18 now it means that they can stay until the 23. 22.
NEXT> Unidentified: 22, 22.

[R16046-130] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: They get the money. But they don't have to provide the service.
TEXT> Not the services. They get the base adequacy aid for that student. Yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's not if the student is in, the student has to be a resident of Claremont. So if that was a kid that was coming from.

[R16046-131] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: Not the services. They get the base adequacy aid for that student. Yes.
TEXT> It's not if the student is in, the student has to be a resident of Claremont. So if that was a kid that was coming from.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, right.

[R16046-134] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: money till fiscal year 26. So we're spending the money out of pocket now to get it back in fiscal year 26. So for instance, fiscal year 24, we had about $800,000 coming to us in cat aid, which will come in fiscal year 25.
TEXT> And over the past 4 or 5 years, we've roughly been around 600,000. This is set by the state. They determine it. It's based on a threshold. I don't have all that information with me tonight, but I'd be more than willing to go into it in another meeting at some point.  So this is our right now, what our estimated revenues were for this year. As you can see,  our adequacy aid and state education tax, the state education tax, even though it is a tax that the state says that we pay, we raise it. So to me, it's not really adequacy aid, even though it's part of the formula. It's not an adequacy aid because we're raising that money anyways in addition to our local tax. So you'll see two numbers on your tax bill, one for the local tax and one for the swept, which is determined by the state going on. So I'm going to talk about adequacy aid. And I know you can go on. We're talking about numbers. So base adequacy. They say it costs us $4,182 to educate a student. Now I'm going to say the lawsuits that are going on say it's closer to ten.
NEXT> Mary Henry: But they settled I think at 7 or 8 is what we came up with. Because in this base adequacy, they don't include transportation, they don't include benefits. There are

[R16046-135] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: to talk about adequacy aid. And I know you can go on. We're talking about numbers. So base adequacy. They say it costs us $4,182 to educate a student. Now I'm going to say the lawsuits that are going on say it's closer to ten.
TEXT> But they settled I think at 7 or 8 is what we came up with. Because in this base adequacy, they don't include transportation, they don't include benefits. There are other things that they just don't include in that figure, that they come up with how much it costs to educate a student free and reduced aid. We get $2,346 of student people have to qualify for this. I will say that our free and reduced numbers have gone down, but I think they've gone down because income has gone up. It doesn't seem like it should have because expenses have gone up, but they haven't increased thresholds. So when someone was making $10 an hour, now they're making 18. They no longer qualify for free and reduced in that household.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Even though they need it.

[R16046-140] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: We got 8 to 12 that just moved here. From Ecuador.
TEXT> Well right now they're basically our adequacy I'm 14.7 this year. Just so you know that's what they're doing now. The next one is home education aid. Now this aid is used for home educated students that taking courses within our district regardless of state appropriations. Each credit is given  as an admirer, which is another form of average daily membership  of 0.15. We're currently receiving 1.35 for 5658 total.  But this is only available if the money is there at the end of the year in the pot of adequacy aid. So this isn't guaranteed adequacy that we're going to get. So again these students are home schooled. They're taking a class here. But we may not get any money for that. I know I keep talking about the state and how I think this is but swept again I talked about this. It is the amount determined by the state that the towns must contribute to the cost of an adequate education. So after they figure out what your base adequacy is, they take away the amount that I had on the screen before, and that is the amount that they're going to give you an adequacy. Now, adequacy or Swept is based on our assessed values. Your assess values went up drastically this year. So that is going to change adequacy aid and how much you receive until the other  towns reassess.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Because I was looking back at the past five years and at one point your adequacy or your sweat tax was high. And then if you look over the years,

[R16046-141] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: amount that they're going to give you an adequacy. Now, adequacy or Swept is based on our assessed values. Your assess values went up drastically this year. So that is going to change adequacy aid and how much you receive until the other towns reassess.
TEXT> Because I was looking back at the past five years and at one point your adequacy or your sweat tax was high. And then if you look over the years, it looks like schools or towns were getting their assessments done, that you started to fall back into line again. So now, though, we're at that point where it's going to go up for a few years and it should start to decrease. If I'm correct on looking at the past data. Next one extraordinary needs grant. This is on a sliding scale. Grant though this has to do with free and reduced. And this is another way, I think,  for the  state to look at adequacy. This was not here before as a grant.  They just put it into place, I want to say a year ago, maybe two. And  it's determined by free and reduced applications and equalized value. So right now you're the amount that you would get. You're getting $8,043 per students.  It's 8000. Oh, I don't remember the number. It's a little bit higher than that is the actual amount, but it's on a sliding scale. Hold harmless grant. This grant is designed to ensure that school districts do not experience a drastic reduction in funding due to changes in student enrollment or adjustments in the adequacy aid formula.
NEXT> Mary Henry: This helps maintain stability and funding for schools. This year's amount is guaranteed at 95%. That was in 2023. We are now guaranteed at 96 per 96%. I just want

[R16046-151] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: And what might cause some of those deficit.
TEXT> But what might cause some of those deficits?  Number one, if we don't have students buying lunch, if we don't have students paying for their lunches,  because we are by law required to serve a student, and we have to serve them the lunch that is being served that day, we cannot turn down a student if they don't have the money. So we can incur debt, which I know you guys have done in the past,  which we are doing currently. So it happens and there's not a whole lot that we can do about that, but also the amount that the state is giving us is peanuts or the federal government is giving us is peanuts compared to what it costs. They really haven't increased their numbers or their amounts in a long time. When we were in Covid and they were reimbursing us at those rates, we were making money. We had money in the bank to do things, which is important in food service as well, because you do need to upgrade things, facilities and things like that. But I am working closely or myself in D, who is my food service person, are working closely with fresh picks to try to change that and get more people to buy lunches and hopefully turn that deficit around.
NEXT> Mary Henry: They have been bought out by another company. So we just met with the new director today, and I'm hopeful that it will get better. Go ahead. So this is

[R16046-152] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: things, facilities and things like that. But I am working closely or myself in D, who is my food service person, are working closely with fresh picks to try to change that and get more people to buy lunches and hopefully turn that deficit around.
TEXT> They have been bought out by another company. So we just met with the new director today, and I'm hopeful that it will get better. Go ahead. So this is what we have for budget numbers. So regular instruction is 32% of our budget. Now special ed is 22%. But I want you to go down to the  student services line, which is right here at 7.15. A lot of those. That's your OT, your PT, your guidance department, your social worker. So whoops, where'd you go? You went back okay. So.  Go down a. Little bit. Nope. You were okay. There we go. Now you got me all messed up Chris. So so Student services is really part of special ed, but it's not classified as special ed because it's not directly a special ed cost.  The saw services. That's how much you pay for your essay. The portion of the budget that you pay.  Then we have the facilities, offices of the principals, pupil transportation, sick time payout, debt services. A lot of these things again, I go down through and they are. How do I want to say this? We only have out of the whole budget, $361,000 in supplies. That includes supplies for maintenance and our whole budget out of this $36 million. So in reality, we don't have a lot of things in there that are that are excessive, you know?
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yeah. They're they're not I mean, we looked really hard at this last year's budget for 25. And I know in 26 we're doing the same thing. But Chris, do

[R16046-168] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And Esser had stuff like that as well. And how much we had to spend on students compared to how much we could spend on other things.  But the next last page, I just, I will get this to you guys, but this is the where I got my information from  New Hampshire adequacy aid that gives you the formula right now. The next one is the New Hampshire education laws going to tell you it's 587 pages. It's a light read, you know. But if you're ever curious to find out about more about it. 587 pages to tell you what we have to do. But again, you know, I understand because I've sat on both sides of the fence. I've been on a school board and I've also been a BA, so I understand where the taxpayers and I'm a taxpayer. So I understand how hard this is. And I understand that people don't want to see their taxes go up and I get it. But. With the plan that we have, the hope is that we will be able to change that, be in a better position, and hopefully not have the increases. Now, this year, I feel depending on what the board decides, our tax rate will probably be about the same. We won't be changing for fiscal year 24 when we set the tax. Rate this year.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Just based on our money we have left over and things like that. So we should be in a pretty good position. Yes, that's what I'm going to do. I

[R16046-190] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: You might keep in mind that about, 35% of our students don't go on to higher education. They need. So when you're talking about those students, this is the perfect place. We need to train those students, while they're part of the public school system.
TEXT> So the technical,  school.  We had a couple of years ago, we had five programs. I think we're up to seven  programs now.  We have a new director  who joined in, about September 1st, and  Bonnie Miles and Mike Peterson and I are on the subcommittee for the Tech center.  On September 17th, the three of us met with the new director, who is. Her name is Michelle Harrington. And I know I can speak for Bonnie and Mike when I say all three of us were blown away with the amount of work and energy and accomplishments that she did in 17 days.  Some of the things that we're excited about, one of the things, to get students to enroll in technical programs here, you have to convince the students and their parents to agree to get them here. It has to be a cooperative effort with the high school, with the high school counselors, and with the tech center text staff and with the parents and the students. And so, Michelle, in the first 17 days, interviewed the 150 students that are at the tech Center now as students and film them and ask them,  how how they happen to get involved in tech programs, what their,  process was to enroll in tech programs, what kinds of,  requirements, what kinds of courses did they have to have before they couldn't role in the two year tech programs?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: The tech program provides a two year, credentialing for for various programs. And she she recorded those 150 interviewed interviews and placed them regularly at the high school library so

[R16046-208] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And the other thing about the tech center, it is a revenue stream. Because if we can build it up, we can get students from other districts to come here, which will increase it. So any money you're investing into it could be offset. I know it, fall Mountain, we did that with our ag program. We break even over there. Because of it, with all the students, we have.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The process of creating the pathways, right. Because right now have classes. So we want the actual pathways that that either, you know, that Newport can take advantage of new

[R16046-229] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Yoshi Manale: then we as a city can then work on trying to figure out how do we get them after that point, right after they heard 19, 20 and then getting that federal money to be able to help us find and make those programs work?
TEXT> I think it's been a great collaboration so far. All the conversations we had, because it it gets you thinking in regards to how the two are so similar in regards to we've got the education component. And you know, by bringing employees in and  us getting students out into the community and them hearing it not just from their teachers, but from, you know, Forman's and stuff, know this is the real world. This is what you need to do. And we're finding out even now, which is like they might have the skills, but we need to do a better job teaching the soft skills as well. You got the job and how do you keep it kind of thing, you know? So we're trying to bring that not just to the text on it, but to the schools in general. There's a level of accountability we're expecting from students. You're in the schools, you hate to learn, and there's not much room for anything else. And we want to try to find ways to keep people in the community in employment. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, I'm. A little taskmaster. Time for meetings. I've already passed our time, so I'm sure everybody wants to go home. But just briefly. What do you. Feel about this

[R16049-26] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: for a lot of subjects. So I will be doing outreach not so much in March, but more, you know, in June when grades are finalized. My hope is that with the full year long schedule, we will have a better idea of grades earlier.
TEXT> Possibly.  But we'll see. We had 136 students invited to come to summer school  to recover a total of 234 credits if my math was right when I was counting my spreadsheet.  As you can see, the attendance, you know, it went down, which made us happy because that means kids are recovering credits and not just spending time in the library hanging out. We recovered a total of 128 credits.  And then we had 28 kids who recovered more than one credit. So we had kids who recovered 2 or 3 credits, which really did put them on a better track for this year going forward.  We are still working off of our grant we got for food from the Jack and Dorothy Brand Foundation a few years ago. So we go to Hannaford. We load up on healthy ish snacks. I mean, we get, you know, stuff they want to eat, but also stuff that's good for them.  And cups for water. And we kind of have those for kids available. And they don't make messes, they don't abuse it. They take what they need, which is great.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: But they have enough money to last least in their summer, possibly to, this was the last summer of the summer school staff funding coming from Esser funds. So starting

[R16049-27] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: get, you know, stuff they want to eat, but also stuff that's good for them. And cups for water. And we kind of have those for kids available. And they don't make messes, they don't abuse it. They take what they need, which is great.
TEXT> But they have enough money to last least in their summer, possibly to,  this was the last summer of the summer school staff funding coming from Esser funds. So starting next year will have to be in the Stevens High School budget, which already talked about with Michael, and he's fully on board with it and I'm sure the offices as well. And hopefully you guys will be as well.  It's really important piece, I think, to the high school, and it does definitely help kids get on track and helps us get kids to graduation on time and on track, which is something I know we all want. So any questions for me about anything? A lot of hands. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I have a couple of questions. Thank you for for providing us with this information for being here tonight. Would you just clarify the difference between recovering credit and taking

[R16049-28] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: to the high school, and it does definitely help kids get on track and helps us get kids to graduation on time and on track, which is something I know we all want. So any questions for me about anything? A lot of hands. Okay.
TEXT> I have a couple of questions. Thank you for for providing us with this information for being here tonight.  Would you just clarify the difference between recovering credit and taking the course and how that relates in terms of competency and how many weeks students took to get to that point?
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: So, if they recover the credit and summer school, they don't have to retake the class. So if I'm a case, if they recover the credit in summer school, they

[R16049-31] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So do recover. I just I just want to recover during summer school means that they get a passing grade.
TEXT> Correct. So the highest grade you can get in summer school is a C minus A 70, which is our minimum passing grade. So when the teachers,  get their list of students, you know, and what classes they failed, they work to get them to a C minus. And so if and if a kid fails an honors class during the school year, they can come do that in summer school, but they do not get the honors credit for the recovery credit.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: They don't get the weighted correct.

[R16049-34] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: They don't get the weighted grade. They get just the non weighted grade.
TEXT> So a student attends until a teacher has determined they have demonstrated C minus in work. Is it competency based in terms of the assessments that they're taking during that time.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: It's the same that they do during the school year. Oh okay. Yeah. So we follow the exact same, grading rubric I guess is the right way of saying it

[R16049-37] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay.
TEXT> So, like, for science, they had them, you know, I know this this year and last year they had them do projects that cover a wide variety of competencies in one big project. You know what I mean? So it was kind of a way to look at the learning differently  for English. You know, if a kid has to do a reading competency, they have to different than to do like a writing competency or you know what I mean. So they do they differentiate within those.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And just one last question. If a student desires to earn or achieve greater than a C minus, is there an option for them to do that?

[R16049-38] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: a way to look at the learning differently for English. You know, if a kid has to do a reading competency, they have to different than to do like a writing competency or you know what I mean. So they do they differentiate within those.
TEXT> And just one last question.  If a student desires to earn or achieve greater than a C minus, is there an option for them to do that?
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: There's not. This is once they get a C minus. It's just that's just.

[R16049-46] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: In the school year.
TEXT> Right. And I mean, we've never had a kid willingly want to do that.  Especially with our new schedule, with classes being full year. But it could happen.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Yeah.

[R16049-49] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Of course.
TEXT> I had a couple of questions. Okay. So, first of all,  I see that 136 students were invited to. Will you describe the invited process?
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Sure. I send emails. To the parents and the children. Okay. I send at least three reminder emails. I will call as well if I feel like maybe the parent

[R16049-51] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: parents and the children. Okay. I send at least three reminder emails. I will call as well if I feel like maybe the parent doesn't get the emails or something happened. But I that's how I do reach out because I. It's mainly through email.
TEXT> Okay.  And so out of 136, students would have been eligible. How many kids participated?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: 66.

[R16049-53] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: 66.
TEXT> Well, that was that was the average we had. We had 128 kids to be. I hundred and 60 were invited. So, I mean, I, I don't have the exact number of that. I just went off the math I did on my spreadsheet. But I would say a good amount of students came and chose to do some work school. We can't force them to come to summer school.  And some kids go to camp. Some kids work all summer. Some kids are watching their siblings.  You know.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So. I'm wondering if, if a more aggressive system of reaching out to parents in courage, more students to participate. If you've got a potential of 136 and only half

[R16049-54] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: But I would say a good amount of students came and chose to do some work school. We can't force them to come to summer school. And some kids go to camp. Some kids work all summer. Some kids are watching their siblings. You know.
TEXT> So. I'm wondering if, if a more aggressive system of reaching out to parents in courage, more students to participate. If you've got a potential of 136 and only half of them enrolled, I think there's a big opportunity to get more kids.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Yeah, I mean, I do the best I can. I mean, I I'm one person right now. I'm the only school counselor. I do the best I can with the

[R16049-55] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So. I'm wondering if, if a more aggressive system of reaching out to parents in courage, more students to participate. If you've got a potential of 136 and only half of them enrolled, I think there's a big opportunity to get more kids.
TEXT> Yeah, I mean, I do the best I can. I mean, I I'm one person right now. I'm the only school counselor. I do the best I can with the outreach. And kids at this point know about summer school. Our teachers are about it. They do mention it to people. You know what I mean? So it's it's a well known. We mentioned it at, when we have our freshman orientation that we mentioned it there, the, the, the teachers mentioned in classes. So and we have kids who covers summer school every summer. So it's.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's there a note I mean I don't know whether this is so when, when report cards like I said emailed or made available.

[R16049-59] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean and so when those report cards are sent to parents, could there be a note attached there that by the way, this student is eligible.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: To be on the parent portal like a note that pops up for them.

[R16049-66] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: And I'm not. I mean, I use that as an example, but I know there are a ton. You know, there are people. And I'm thinking, gosh, only half of those kids who are eligible participate. I'd really like to get.
TEXT> I would say the first, I mean, I think we had I missed the first few days. I was at power school University, but I had others covering for me, obviously.  But I mean, I think there was close to 100 kids were the first two days. And then it just, you know, they get they recover credit quickly and they leave. So so it was more.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Than just the instruction. Is there more instruction than just taking the test to see if they qualify?

[R16049-69] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Yeah. The teachers especially, they teach the, the material because don't understand. And then they work with them on an assessment of some sort. So then it goes from there.
TEXT> And so I see that  there are 66 kids in the first week.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: That was the average. Yeah. So that was okay.

[R16049-75] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's correct.
TEXT> If a kid complete summer school, like if I'm in summer school for English, let's just pretending like nine. Right. And I finish in the first two days, which does happen. I'm done. I don't have to come back to summer school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: How can they possibly recover a whole.

[R16049-79] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: summer school, but you knew about it. There's a piece of the course that caused them to fail that they didn't pass competency. And so once they assess on that competency and they pass that, that completes their course and they get the passing grade.
TEXT> And I give the teachers printouts of every single kid's full competency list for every single class that they need. Okay. So, like, if I'm a kid and I only need the reading company for English. Okay, here's what you need to do to get your C minus.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I mean, I'm.

[R16049-88] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: He was. They were only there for the first two weeks because they had a family situation, which Edmond was well aware of, and there was an additional teacher there who could help. So that was fine. And and the kids knew that as well.
TEXT> I'm just wondering about the final week when there were only eight students.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Everyone pitches in helps. I mean, you know, if it's a kid who like, again, I'm just going to pick English. Like it's really something in English. You know, when

[R16049-98] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> What I'm imagining back to algebra, I'm thinking as as a year long course or semester course, right? You build on your competencies, you learn this, and then you build on it and you build on it. Right. If the if the student fails early. Correct. And there were a lot of competencies following.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: And those then those summer school. Yeah. For longer than others.

[R16049-101] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right. All right.
TEXT> So I you know, we our teachers are rededicated. That works in our school. And they have almost all done it previously before this summer.  And so they kind of know how to work with these students, you know, how to get them engaged and that type of thing and get them through.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I had a quick question. So it reads here that there's 136 students and they went to recover 234 credits.

[R16049-102] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: rededicated. That works in our school. And they have almost all done it previously before this summer. And so they kind of know how to work with these students, you know, how to get them engaged and that type of thing and get them through.
TEXT> I had a quick question. So it reads here that there's 136 students and they went to recover 234 credits.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: They had to. Yeah.

[R16049-129] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes. Yes.
TEXT> I don't have a formal number for that. I think there's usually. Around a handful of students who might come for a few days, and then they don't want to be there, or they realize the work they have to do, and then they just decide to not return. You know, and I do call those families. I call those parents. During summer school. And I say, hey, we haven't seen someone's on a few days. What's going on? And if I get a return phone call, it's usually not to come back. What can we do to help them? You know, so we we do have those conversations in the summer. They don't show up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But you continually reaching. Absolutely. Try to draw them back in.

[R16049-225] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah, I think we were all invited to the Microsoft.
TEXT> I thought you were, but I didn't know whether you knew that 70 students had signed up. No. It's great. I think that's pretty amazing.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: It's wonderful.

[R16049-231] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Or Candy was met with her. Cannot say enough good things.
TEXT> And and I,  met the new  medtech  teacher, and she has seven students, and,  it was it was great. I was really pleased.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So fruits of everybody's labor. Looks like. Is this. Nice coming to fruition? Anything from the ad hoc communication subcommittee beyond what happened on the 18th?

[R16049-263] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Depot, but really in that building. Wouldn't that be nice if there was a monitor when you walked into that North Street building? You know, volume off. What? Just a video of the kids. So because these are business people that come in there too.
TEXT> So so I think what you're saying is the video,  the video that Miss Harrington has created  with the students. Yes.  She created that for the purpose of generating interest in the other students at Stevens High School to take courses at the tech. Right. So it's not.  It could be there. I would, but that's not the I mean, that's not the primary purpose. The primary purpose is to generate interest in the student body for courses at the tech center.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Because I was just thinking it would generate interest in the public to if they if they have, you know, because they're all going in there from things. And if

[R16070-1] Miles Sheehan | STUDENT BOARD MEMBER, Stevens High School - the chair introduces the t | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: We have two new student members, which we're thrilled to have. Thank you so much for coming. We have Miles Sheehan and Lily Clark, and I don't know if both of you are planning to present or one this evening, but please proceed. Miles? Miles.
TEXT> Yeah. So we just have a couple of, you know, things that have been going on around the school that talk to you about,  starting with some activities.  Stuff that's been going on. We had the homecoming dance, not last weekend, but the weekend before on Saturday. There's a good turnout. There was a lot of new freshmen joining their high school experience with dances, and it was a good turnout from upper classmen as well. We raised around $1,000 to be put towards more dances and other things that the student council will decide to do with it. We also had a pep rally.  Last Friday.  Excuse the first pet was an amazing display of  school spirit. All the classes participated and they were all good sports. Everyone enjoyed themselves and enjoyed the friendly competition. Seniors won the Pepper rally by one point after a riveting rock, paper, scissors tiebreaker.  Against the juniors. Some cool things that are coming up.  Miss Gessner are here. Teacher has a show coming up on October 24th, fifth and sixth. It's a dark comedy about the devil visiting a small town in the 1600s to buy the souls of the townspeople in exchange for their deepest desires.
NEXT> Lily Clark: I'm Lily, and I'm on the girls varsity field hockey team. We played against Newport and we won the Flint Cup again. So it's back in case again. We just

[R16070-8] Miles Sheehan | STUDENT BOARD MEMBER, Stevens High School - the chair introduces the t | 2024-10-16
PREV> Lily Clark: a really hard time right now because of all the classes they have, but I think it'll everything will go smoothly once the year keeps going into effect. I think we're all just new to it right now, but I think it could be beneficial.
TEXT> Yeah, I feel like there's a lot of, I feel like there's a lot of students that right now  it's just. New and sort of uncomfortable for the moment as we're kind of figuring it all out. But I do know that there's a number of people that I know that initially started out thinking that it wasn't going to be good, but like, there's a lot of benefits to it. Like, I like that the danger is faster because I feel like I'm doing more, but, yeah. It's good.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Thank you.

[R16070-10] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Mike Koski: Thank you.
TEXT> I just have one question about the restorative justice. How is how do students feel about that? And do you do you personally or does your peer group feel that that's an effective way of handling things?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah.

[R16070-17] Jennifer Gallagher | CITIZEN COMMENTER, Ward 1, Claremont - SELF-IDENTIFICATION: 'Hi, I'm J | 2024-10-16
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: tremendously and was very upset as a result of this action. And then, the students were made to line up in the hallway outside of the bathroom in question and single singly, go observe the fecal matter smeared on the wall of the bathroom stall.
TEXT> So, admin did respond to my concern that I sent an email about it. I know that other upset parents did also send emails, and they also got a response. However, that that response was by phone and students who may have not known that that was not okay for them to experience.  Presumably didn't tell their grown ups. Other grown ups of children in the building weren't made aware of the problem, and it's not really a supportive way talking about behavior and support.  It really wasn't supportive. So I just feel like if there was a policy in place on how the district handled that, it's come to my attention that it's not the first time this type of issue has happened at an elementary school. But as I'm sure some of you know, fecal smearing can happen due to a variety of medical issues, some of which are sensory and some of which are actually trauma based. So by shaming children, which that is the only purpose that type of activity seeks to do is by shaming them. They're not going to get the support that they need in order to fix the problem, which keeps happening.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: So I just wanted to bring it to your attention that I felt like, and I'm not the only parent that felt like it was mishandled, because I know that

[R16070-23] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Did a great job explaining things to us.
TEXT> Thank you. Kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Next item of business is the superintendent's report. We received a very nice packet, which I was very impressed with and appreciative of.

[R16070-35] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Mike Koski: Should we start with your question?
TEXT> So I just had directly about, Our  standardized testing or, assessment benchmarks assessments. It looks like we're doing okay within reading or at least six tolerable with the reading.  But the the math,  was pretty shocking where we had a guess, the maple at the third grade level, 9% of kids are, on or above grade level. So that was concerning to me.
NEXT> Mike Koski: A little bit of explanation. This is a test based on this school years instruction. Yeah. So we're giving the test and the following for the instruction okay.

[R16070-43] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes.
TEXT> And I had one more question. Is it looked like in some of the schools we were having some real attendance issues, most notably at CMS, we had 300 plus students and there was 400 plus absentee  absences from the beginning of the school year to currently. And, I guess when Chris comes back in, I was curious whether or not there was a if there's a policy prescription that the board could provide that may be more rigorous than what the state requires as far as action on those kind of absences, or.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Maybe just some feedback. Is there any explanation?

[R16070-47] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Mike Koski: For sure? Yeah, I think we can get that.
TEXT> Even in the earlier grades there was some and I'm wondering if it's the same kid. So over and over or.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Right.

[R16070-50] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - DIRECT ADDRESS: policy | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: That's why I was wondering.
TEXT> If a number of students who appear to have been a school for health reasons. There's several weeks straight and that could really help. So so one.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Individual might account for 35 of the days. Yes.

[R16070-61] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It was very interesting.
TEXT> So I just I'm curious, what is I mean, I could I could see that in first grade, second grade or whatever, you know, that you're trying to kids want to get mature, but I just I'm curious what grades that is. But it is it is interesting that, that that many people feel that that's very important.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So as I read that, I had a question that struck me as well, Frank. But and then my question was, when we're talking about character and I can't remember

[R16070-62] Arlene Hawkins | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER; also CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board and | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: see that in first grade, second grade or whatever, you know, that you're trying to kids want to get mature, but I just I'm curious what grades that is. But it is it is interesting that, that that many people feel that that's very important.
TEXT> So as I read that, I had a question that struck me as well, Frank. But and then my question was, when we're talking about character and I can't remember the other word that was in there, is that their own child or.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That I was thinking.

[R16070-64] Arlene Hawkins | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER; also CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board and | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: That I was thinking.
TEXT> Other students, and they feel it's lacking within our district. I think that's working on the strategic plan.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Will.

[R16070-73] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: that struck me was it's right in keeping with the work that's being done on the strategic plan. And I thought we were not missing the mark. You know, it's very much a part of what's coming out from the group we've been working with.
TEXT> Yeah. And I think, you know, I was was I was surprised to see those results. But I was also happy because I know that at least from the high school level, myself, Michael and stuff and the team that's over there, and you could tell by the students is we're trying to do that requires restorative practices, and we're trying to resolve problems as adult, resolve problems in the real world. And that's part of character development, dealing with difficult situations. How do you navigate those situations when they can be so many different things? You know, so it made me feel a little bit of that. We're not missing the mark in regards to at least that, you know, the high school level, I can only speak from being there is that we're and we're responding to our environment and what we need to see.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And I found the student, reflection on the restorative justice, on the scheduling. It really indicates that they're thoughtful young adults who are reflecting and articulating what their environment is.

[R16070-89] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: First, let me just announce to the community that Miss Harrington is our a new assistant director of the technical center. Thank you.
TEXT> Hello, everybody.  All right, so I made a little PowerPoint over here. This is the tech center. Go ahead.  So it's kind of like, what have I been doing, you know, since I started  at the end of August. So my big thing is, is building relationships, and that's kind of just building relationships with staff. That's kind of getting to know them, being in their classes, not just being, you know, some lady that just sits in the office, you know, and they walk by every day. So I'm really in the classes getting to know the staff, getting to know the students.  Weekly meetings. We meet every Monday during advisory time to really kind of go, what is the plan? What is the plan for the week? Do you need any help with anything? And with our medical assistant teacher, she was like, hey,  I'm running stations. Can anybody help me during this time? So it's a good way to just kind of partner with each other. So really getting to know the staff. It's a small staff, but we're mighty,  students. We have 150 students that come through  the tech center in level ones, level twos and intro classes, and then 13 students from Newport. So I met with each student individually.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And just kind of got to know them just to kind of say, hey, what classes have you taken at the tech Center? What do you want to take? What

[R16070-90] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: really getting to know the staff. It's a small staff, but we're mighty, students. We have 150 students that come through the tech center in level ones, level twos and intro classes, and then 13 students from Newport. So I met with each student individually.
TEXT> And just kind of got to know them just to kind of say, hey, what classes have you taken at the tech Center? What do you want to take? What is your plan after graduating? And if I talk to ninth graders or 12th graders, 90% of them had no clue what they wanted to do.  I'm like, I don't know. I want to be a plumber. Well, where do you know any of any places that are hiring in the community? So it's just a really good opportunity to say, okay, this one's interested, you know, in plumbing or electrical or just kind of just to get to know them. Oh, you're on the football team. I hope you beat Newport. You know, just just to really kind of get to know them as students.  So when they when I see them in the hall, I can really kind of get to know them.  So then so I had one on one meetings with the students.  I greet them in the hallway. When I see them,  I stand outside my doorway. My office is like, I have a door that kind of goes in the hallway. You can hear them from a mile away. You know when they're coming. So I just get up and I just greet them.  And kind of just say hello, and,  so then if you just want to click the link.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And then we can just. So this is the and then we can just go a slideshow in a slideshow. So this is the meet the staff at the tech

[R16070-91] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: of goes in the hallway. You can hear them from a mile away. You know when they're coming. So I just get up and I just greet them. And kind of just say hello, and, so then if you just want to click the link.
TEXT> And then we can just. So this is the and then we can just go a slideshow in a slideshow. So this is the meet the staff at the tech center. So I put the staff in the text in the slideshow as well. And I and you can just kind of you can just click through it.  Kind of fast. So this is this is my like, what are my past jobs I've had before I got here? You know, you didn't just all of a sudden get into this job. It was, hey, I worked at Hannaford. I worked at the pools. I worked at a miniature golf course serving ice cream. So just kind of relating to them. Well, we also did. Can you stay right here? Is this is Mr. B. He's the plumber. And really, like, in high school, he worked at a stay  at a steak steakhouse making $3, 30 and $0.23 an hour. So when kids see it, they're like, whoa. Mr. B worked in a, you know, in a restaurant, you know, to kind of just relate to them, you know, where they just think he's just this plumber and he stays in this, you know, he's been a plumber forever.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: No, he worked at a steakhouse. The other Mr. B in construction, he was running apartment buildings in high school. He was an apartment manager, so he kind of stayed

[R16070-92] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: it, they're like, whoa. Mr. B worked in a, you know, in a restaurant, you know, to kind of just relate to them, you know, where they just think he's just this plumber and he stays in this, you know, he's been a plumber forever.
TEXT> No, he worked at a steakhouse.  The other Mr. B in construction, he was running apartment buildings in high school. He was an apartment manager, so he kind of stayed on this one path through all of, you know, he was, you know, a carpentry apprentice property manager making eight bucks an hour back then. So he was making lots of money back then. So kind of nice just to see what the staff are doing here, just to relate to them. And then we have, you know, just the intro classes. These are the quarter classes that we they come up, you know, four times a year and then it just goes by just each student has their own slide.  So then it just goes what classes they've taken, what classes  they're in now, what grade they're in. And then kind of what what job do you want to do. You know. And your favorite thing at the tech center.  Hands down, the most thing was the hands on experience. I'm not sitting in a, you know, in a chair all the time. The thing that I was shocked about was the students said how quiet the tech center is  of when I'm in my class.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: I don't know anything else that's going on at the tech center. You're in that class. You're not getting distracted by people walking down the hallway, going to the bathroom

[R16070-93] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: down, the most thing was the hands on experience. I'm not sitting in a, you know, in a chair all the time. The thing that I was shocked about was the students said how quiet the tech center is of when I'm in my class.
TEXT> I don't know anything else that's going on at the tech center. You're in that class. You're not getting distracted by people walking down the hallway, going to the bathroom all the time. You know, just all of that stuff. When you're in your class, you're just in it. And so that was kind of a good thing that I saw. And then just kind of go through it. So each, you know, each kid has their own slide. And then you see this level two, you have a group photo of them.   So there's over 200 plus slides in the slideshow.  And I just put it in there. So if you guys you have access to it, you can just kind of look through it. Another thing is, is there's two TVs at the high school. One when you first walk in that this is just constantly going on, and then one in the library  and the the library assistant emailed me and said, I've had a few kids late for class because they waited for their slide, for their slide to come up.  So, you know, and spelling is not my thing.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: I spelled a few kids names wrong and they're like, Miss Harrington, my name is spelled wrong. So then I make sure that I go back and do it immediately.

[R16070-94] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: on, and then one in the library and the the library assistant emailed me and said, I've had a few kids late for class because they waited for their slide, for their slide to come up. So, you know, and spelling is not my thing.
TEXT> I spelled a few kids names wrong and they're like, Miss Harrington, my name is spelled wrong. So then I make sure that I go back and do it immediately. I'm like, here's a piece of candy. I'm sorry. I'll fix it. And then they come back the next day. They're like, you really fixed it. And I'm like, I did, you know, like it's important. So we have a lot of, you know, field trips on there.  So you guys can just take some time and just kind of go through it. It's in the it's in the front of the text center.  So yes. So we just want to x out of that. And then go. So just building relationships with the students and the staff. And then it's kind of this community. Like my thing is is the more we talk to the community, the better the tech center is going to be. So these are kind of just quick things.  The program advisory committees, we really needed to work on those a lot. You know, it's kind of just like a check the box kind of thing.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So we really wanted to make sure that it was something that we did and we did well. So we took a PD day and we really just kind of

[R16070-98] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: And this this was in New Boston? Yep. And it was there was over 900 students that went to this event, and I think over 200 vendors. So we just went in. You know, we kind of just I got a lot of pan flits.
TEXT> A lot of people were like, hey, we'll come to schools. But I let the students kind of talk. And then when they when they were done, I was like, I'll take that. You know,  and kind of just that was great. Then we had an open house, open house. We didn't have a lot of students come, but the students that came were so excited to just show off what they you know, it wasn't like mom dragged him here. It was like, let me show you. And they were proud to walk down the hall. So we're trying to figure out how to make open House a bigger event. You know, just because there's so many things that go on. There's sports, there's this in high school, you know, open houses and a big thing anyways. But how can we get it to be, you know, this really cool thing? Then we had micros. Manufacturing is October. It's October. October is manufacturing month.  And micros, you know, we partnered with micros. They came in, and at first it was just going to be like this small thing of just the manufacturing class was going to be in it. And then when I was looking through the slideshow, I realized, like, there's so many kids that have already taken manufacturing or the kind of the common trend is if you're taking one class, if you're taking plumbing, you're taking carpentry, you're taking you're taking them all.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So then when I met with my process, I was like, let's open it up to everybody. Let's ask them if they want to come. So at micros we had

[R16070-99] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: when I was looking through the slideshow, I realized, like, there's so many kids that have already taken manufacturing or the kind of the common trend is if you're taking one class, if you're taking plumbing, you're taking carpentry, you're taking you're taking them all.
TEXT> So then when I met with my process, I was like, let's open it up to everybody. Let's ask them if they want to come. So at micros we had high engineers. We had a,  we had  advertising. We had  the line workers. We had younger kids, older kids, you know,  people in wheelchairs, you know, kind of came just to kind of get everybody involved in micros. So we had 70 students come, and we also had the culinary department set up like a break room. So when they rotated through these ten stations, they kind of went to the culinary department to have a little break. And the culinary department got to showcase their, you know, their, their trade as well.  Then we went to the Newport Physical Therapy with the intro to Healthcare. We went to well with Orchard, which is great because we picked a lot of apples. And then,  jumping ahead. But Arrowhead, I met with Brian Sutter and he called me up. He was like, hey, you know, we we didn't know if he wanted to help out with this event this Saturday and Sunday.  I talked to culinary.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: They were like, let's do it. So we're going to Arrowhead this weekend. And one of the things on the menu is apple crisp. And we got the apples from

[R16070-105] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I know.
TEXT> I think that's for kids. So they're not sleeping on like a mattress. Isn't sleeping on the, like, on the floor. So they're kind of lacking volunteers right now. So we kind of. And I was I knew about them at bluff. And then Mike, the construction teacher, he was like, hey, let's partner with them. There's a back order of students that are I mean, kids that are waiting for beds. And Mike said he could make ten beds in a week so we could get these beds out to kids in the community. So tomorrow we're going to see their facility to kind of see what it's all about and see the blueprints and stuff. So we'll be making beds for kids in the community as well.  And then we're also going to,  Michael set us up with,  Sullivan County Nursing Home. So the medical assistant class is going there to see,  to see, you know, just kind of that facility. And they actually were trying on,  like glasses or they had like, headphones on. So it was like they were hard to see, just kind of like what it is like when you were getting older of how to navigate certain things.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So the class was kind of like practicing how, you know, how it would be with all this really cool technology. And then do you want me to keep going

[R16070-108] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: or half a day, kind of to just be that first student, to just kind of see what it's like, you know, just to be on the fire department. And then the workforce development team, we're meeting with them at the end of the month.
TEXT> But Tom Rock said he would meet with us before to kind of just have a good, to kind of know what we're doing. And then,  culinary wanted me to throw in there that the pie sales are coming up soon, so I'll bring some flowers where you guys. And,  and then on November 1st, the apprenticeship New Hampshire talks, we're meeting with the juniors and the senior separately to see what what that program is and what we can do to kind of partner with them. And, and then we're partnering with the with the college, you know, the career counselor is going to kind of go to this and,  this one's a big one bringing back the trades. This is like a big micro event.  1300 students all over New Hampshire are going to be in this auditorium and just kind of see, this was $50 a ticket to go. So we have a small amount of kids that are going, but they will really kind of get something out of it.  The program advisory committees and then,  the college, the nursing students are doing their senior  projects and they're presenting them. So the medical assistant one kids are going to go and they're going to see what it is to kind of graduate from this program.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: They're going to provide lunch, and we're going to just kind of see the senior presentations. And then there's a health care career fair at the college that we're going

[R16070-113] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: The photo on my bottom left. Where is that? The young lady on the structure. Where's that picture taken?
TEXT> Golden cross. Okay, this one's that golden cross. This is a student in, you know, at the New Hampshire and Construction Day. This is at the Golden Cross. And this was at the New Hampshire construction.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I asked because the student, the gentleman in the background is a former student of mine.

[R16070-114] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: Golden cross. Okay, this one's that golden cross. This is a student in, you know, at the New Hampshire and Construction Day. This is at the Golden Cross. And this was at the New Hampshire construction.
TEXT> I asked because the student, the gentleman in the background is a former student of mine.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So that was our first field trip ever.

[R16070-118] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: me. Like I'm the first one. And this is Alex down here. And he actually helped make the student of the month board. And the teacher and I were joking because we're like, this is the first student another month and they have no clue.
TEXT> But they're kind of taking some pride in in the student of the month board.  And then this is what the board looks like. So this is kind of hard to see. But this says student of the month. And then each thing is just kind of, you know, would burned into it. We realize that we're going to get smaller picture frames and kind of make it. So it's kind of like this picture frame and then it all kind of looks a little bit better, but trial and error. And then, each week or every biweekly, there's  like a little newspaper that goes out with the school. And I've just been putting kind of what we've been doing if you just want to, like, click. On one of them. So there's been three newspaper articles that come out and I put one in each one. So this goes out to all the staff members in the whole district. And then just kind of scroll down. And then so this is, you know, just so that the tech center is kind of on the map, they're seeing it, they're going on  and then it's there.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And then one other thing I don't think I put in there is we met with the middle school in the beginning, and they were going to come over and

[R16070-124] Candace Crawford | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: of fundraising like we're calling like at the say the Arrowhead will raise money or they sell Christmas trees at the you know, in the. So there's money for it in there. So we're taking like the level twos in the, in the construction class.
TEXT> Because I don't want kids not to go because they don't.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Have it. Yeah.

[R16070-148] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Because.
TEXT> Yeah.  So program advisory committee is the teacher. And then there's a student on the committee. And it's kind of just like the people in the community kind of giving input on where we can move the programs kind of in the future. So if we were saying, oh, this machine works really well, and then they say, actually, we're not using that machine anymore, you might want to use this one or have you? Hey, it would be really helpful if we're going to hire somebody for them to have like a OSHA ten certification, you know, so it's really just having the input of, of the community members to kind of say, hey, this is what we're kind of looking for for employees.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Someone from the trades with the student and the teacher.

[R16070-149] Arlene Hawkins | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER; also CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board and | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: helpful if we're going to hire somebody for them to have like a OSHA ten certification, you know, so it's really just having the input of, of the community members to kind of say, hey, this is what we're kind of looking for for employees.
TEXT> Someone from the trades with the student and the teacher.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Yes. And we and so some of some of them have 15 people on the program advisory committees. Now that we're trying to be fit up a little bit, some

[R16070-153] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's what they were called. Craft committees.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. And then with micros, I just want to piggyback on that is when we first mentioned it. We're like, students don't learn with, you know, with a slide show and somebody standing up here because they're going to just kind of zone out or not really, you know, know. So we we wanted to make it really inclusive where they could have those conversations that you're going to have, like in the workplace, because you might have a monthly meeting where you can kind of talk and somebody presenting, but when you're going to get your most work done is, hey, did you see this report? You know, and then you're going to move on at the copier. So those are the things that we really kind of looked into at the micro, you know, interaction of just it was kind of just like everybody was kind of  talking and having a conversation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other questions for Miss Harrington? No. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.

[R16070-198] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And I.
TEXT> Think I was on that committee. You and I were on the sick committee, though. I think we were on a committee about this way back when. And Steve Holt actually said that there was a whole bunch of labor involved with changing out the fluorescent bulbs that were constantly going out. There is disposal, disposal. And so I remember him speaking like, you know, this is a real stupid way for us to be spending a lot of maintenance time, quite frankly. And the flickering was causing some kids in the schools to have.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You go to some of the classrooms, you know, like they keep the lights off, right? Right. Just because it it it, you know, it just makes some kids nauseous.

[R16070-199] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: going out. There is disposal, disposal. And so I remember him speaking like, you know, this is a real stupid way for us to be spending a lot of maintenance time, quite frankly. And the flickering was causing some kids in the schools to have.
TEXT> You go to some of the classrooms, you know, like they keep the lights off, right? Right. Just because it it it, you know, it just makes some kids nauseous. It gives some kids headaches, teachers headaches. So it's, you know, it's I think it's long overdue.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I assume there's other, other factors other than the fixtures. For example, if if we left this room with the lights on.

[R16070-514] Whitney Skillen | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER and CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee (pe | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: None of those policies adopted. Thank you.
TEXT> And similar for the last policy j j. J. Access to public school programs by nonpublic charter school and home educated pupils for submitting this for a first read and adoption. We also had to identify the a delegate and accountable person for a few areas and most of the. In most places it's either the superintendent or the principal.  And Mr.. Can you help remind me anything else relevant that we changed or brought forth in this?
NEXT> Mike Koski: No, it's just the for federal grants were required to share a portion of that with any other, nonpublic institutions in, in and so this is guidance on.

[R16070-520] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Whitney Skillen: A New Hampshire school board association. Yes.
TEXT> So I would like to make a motion to repeal the previously adopted,  policy. JJ access to public school programs by nonpublic charter school and home educated pupils and replace it with a 2024 policy that is before us of the same name.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Second.

[R16070-529] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - DIRECT ADDRESS: policy | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Our title funds.
TEXT> With that. We do that with Claremont Christian. Okay. Choose to participate. This is also home and students for charter school students and taking temporary course at Stevens or Playland and things like that. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: All in favor of adoption of the policy as described. Say I, I any opposed seeing no opposition policy JJJ2024 is approved or adopted.

