[R10506-218] Steven Moss | Curriculum specialist grades 6-12, SAU 6 (chair's 'Mr. Moss'; full nam | 2019-08-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Looks like.
TEXT> There we go. Okay, so it's five year program. We are going to participate in all five years. So it's going to start with sixth graders. This year is going to roll into the seventh grade next year, eighth grade a year after that. So we'll have people working with all of our science staff in that. And then the last two years of the program is going to be opened up to school statewide. They have to apply to Dartmouth to be part of the program. We are going to continue in the program and look at maintenance for those facilities and all that. So at no cost to Claremont, you know, Dartmouth is picking up the tab. They're paying  travel for all the grad students to come down here. They're paying for the curriculum. Any travel that we have going up there, they pay for so it's no cost to us, which is fantastic. The units that they develop and then that we were fine through years four and five, we get to keep their will be part of our curriculum. You know, sort of advent by Dartmouth. So it's a, it's I'm really excited about the partnerships.
NEXT> Steven Moss: Fantastic. Anytime we can work with the collegiate field and bringing this new technology and to focus, another focus of their program is also work on involving women in the

[R10506-223] Steven Moss | Curriculum specialist grades 6-12, SAU 6 (chair's 'Mr. Moss'; full nam | 2019-08-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: So so that will be within the five year.
TEXT> Yeah, we'll track that, you know, without putting any particular student data in, but will track growth and trends on on student scores and grades through that.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So it's more of a comment than a question. Yes, sir. Being somebody that's got a sixth grader going in was a girl who is really strong in math and

[R10506-227] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-08-21
PREV> Steven Moss: they started that program after school. We had 30 kids working on designing these things for veterans. It was really pretty awesome to see that. So bringing those ideas to the school and helping, that would be something that I'm really looking forward to doing.
TEXT> So we have, if I want to call it, similar number of years ago, through the Wellborn Foundation, we had a science teacher that was doing a lot of inquiry based, the Mercury project,  if you remember Pat, Eric or Furlong's Mercury project. And it was very much teamwork, all inquiry based,  a lot of lab experience.  And, one of the things that she would do is they would participate in a big presentation up at Dartmouth, and the students that couldn't present at Dartmouth came and presented to the school board.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh.

[R10506-230] Steven Moss | Curriculum specialist grades 6-12, SAU 6 (chair's 'Mr. Moss'; full nam | 2019-08-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, I would love to see some products of this here.
TEXT> I'm glad you brought that up, because one of the other initiatives that we're working on is a PBL initiative, and one of the key components of developing a PBL is to have authentic presentations to community leaders. And so I can guarantee that at some point, you will all be getting invitations to come to the school to participate and seeing kids present projects. And and you will help evaluate those. And, you know, we'd like to be able to say you need to get this project done because on Tuesday, school board members are going to be here. And that's a great motivator for to kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'd like to have one here so that the community can.

[R10506-238] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm sorry.
TEXT> We're enamored with our acronyms. The, One of the things that I did miss, it was a long day. I'm sorry. That I was alluding to before with our committees, that we're looking for a way to do this. And this is exactly what, you're saying. Chairman Sprague is. We were looking for ways in which we set up a schedule of meetings that we have here so that we're showcasing every single meeting. What's happening at one school with a student. Authentic student work of any kind. It doesn't have to be Stem related. Has to be. We want to showcase the positive things that are happening in the schools.  So often kids don't get that, I don't want to say validation like it's a bad thing, but it's great.  The, the work that they're doing in particularly  with, the middle school is, is really ready to, to pop with the energy, with the, with the project base. I've seen some of the curriculum that Stephen's been working on with this, with the teachers over the summer, and with Frank's leadership on the schedule and the entire buying of of the staff with the schedule, it's, we're really looking forward to it.  And  same thing with, you know, all the elementary schools with some of the arts things that are going on.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We would we would love that to be a regular piece. I don't know how the board feels about that, but maybe a 5 minute or 10 minute presentation or

[R10506-300] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: Great job.
TEXT> New student IDs. Point of sale swipe cards.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Is linkage to, as a an outgrowth from the audit report and the findings in basically some of the gaps that we've had with controls over the, you know, the

[R10506-307] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-08-21
PREV> Jeff Small: But it can go anywhere. I mean, I'm just throwing ideas, but that can go. I mean, it can be anything. So.
TEXT> If it's student reports that is lost, it can be deactivated. Sure.
NEXT> Jeff Small: Right. But and again, it we may never get to that. But the other good thing too, is even printing. So now we're going to have codes to print. So

[R10506-308] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: If it's student reports that is lost, it can be deactivated. Sure.
TEXT> Right. But and again, it we may never get to that. But the other good thing too, is even printing. So now we're going to have codes to print. So students can use these to print. So it's just a building block to continue. To just keep building on what we can use them for.
NEXT> Unidentified: So what they do on all college campus.

[R10506-352] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: Overall.
TEXT> So and that's a very common practice because of the printing fees in the, in the, the you know  how long it takes to go to press and. Oh yeah. Usually so and you always have the option for the final approval. Just if there's an immediate change for opening to add the addenda page so that kids know the expectation and then the final approval and they know it's in. It's still not official yet. And then it is official. So I, I don't think they anticipate any.
NEXT> Unidentified: First day of school and.

[R10521-61] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: even some honors classes as well. So that that's an increase, a consistent increase over the past few years. They are looking forward to continuing that. And some of those tutors in the summer program. It's paid for for from gear up money as well.
TEXT> So  we're also looking for ways to supplement that for this budget as well as I think in its last year if I, if I  follow that correctly. So  and what else?  There is some  they're hoping to expand the etude credit recovery all year, but again, that will be contingent upon the funding. So we'll be talking about that come budget time. But again, very, very positive numbers that people are getting on track. The idea with that I, I tutor also is targeted for earlier intervention freshmen and sophomores. So  it always  surprised me, as you know, during,  my career as a high school principal, that  so often because we don't intervene early enough, kids are particularly with English classes.  Kids have taken a couple of Englishes there last year, and they struggle with it through, and we just give them more of the same. So this is a better way to incrementally  have them make up the units as they go before they get too far behind. So I applaud that effort.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So what I'm going to do, because of the nature of what you're reporting on for each topic, I'm going to stop you for a second. Are there any questions

[R10521-66] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes. Yes. Yeah.
TEXT> So are there specific students that are targeted or identified or.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Kids who are.

[R10521-67] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: So are there specific students that are targeted or identified or.
TEXT> Kids who are.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In qualify? For that, there's a minimum grade level. Actually, I'm not sure what.

[R10521-74] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-04
PREV> Unidentified: at the kids in general in their circumstances and why they they didn't they didn't meet the competencies. And we were able to pull in a lot more students than we have in the past. So we opened it up to a lot more students.
TEXT> The other the other fringe benefit to that too, is that, you wind up with a big bulge. If you don't do that, you wind up with a huge bulge in your ninth grade English classes. And and you really don't want, second year kids in with first year freshmen either. That's not a good, you know, students who have failed the course the first time in with kids that are just starting. It's not a it's not the best combination in the world. So anything to reduce those class sizes. And it makes it a lot easier for the teachers to. So yeah that's a good thing.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Great.

[R10521-78] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Unidentified: The other.
TEXT> Thing I wanted to report on is I  was fortunate enough to spend the day  with, with Frank  Sprague at the  joint House and Senate AD hoc committee  on  the 29th.  We  spoke to and Frank spoke to kind of the overall,  impact of the of  the continuing resolution on the funding  predicament  with the veto of the governor's budget. I tried to  speak, as I did speak specifically on,  a real case scenario. So, for example, I spoke about the,  we have we have a wonderful makerspace in Claremont in industry. We have all of these  opportunities for students, yet we're still, as the board approved the which I thank you for  putting some of the teachers back in the middle school. We still don't have enough teachers, and kids don't have full schedules that we have to chip away at,  that we're still trying to bail out from years ago. And that's just one example. And there are many more, you know, throughout the budget that you folks have lived.  But I thought it was important to to have those we have this amazing partnership now with Dartmouth that's exciting at the middle school level.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Again, one of of only two middle schools in New Hampshire, as well as two in Vermont that's going out to Dartmouth on the 12th to to start that and

[R10521-130] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-04
PREV> Jason Benware: Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Okay. Second read on. Student discipline, policy and due process. Safe school zone.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: You're on. Donna.

[R10521-279] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Okay.
TEXT> So other business, I want to just share a little bit down at the, the budget hearings. There were a lot of people there. I was glad to see Newport there. Their interim superintendent gave some some great remarks on, the impacts around their staffing. They replaced 37 teachers this year.  And he brought up the importance of continuity with kids and with staff members and kids constantly every year having all new teachers and no, relationships really developing. With them. And they had their opening activities there, and a couple of students came and spoke and met with all the new teachers and asked them to all please stay. You know, that was their request. So it was it was good to see them there. You know, I worked there for a number of years as well. I know what a lot of their issues are  and, you know, it was a it was a great perspective. We had there were a number of people there who offered some solutions.  Around, one person quite aptly pointed out that we don't really have a property tax problem. We have a a funding problem,  and we have plenty of we have the monies.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: They're just coming from the wrong places. I thought it was amusing the person from Newberry who was complaining about his taxes. I thought that was interesting. But there were

[R10521-280] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: perspective. We had there were a number of people there who offered some solutions. Around, one person quite aptly pointed out that we don't really have a property tax problem. We have a a funding problem, and we have plenty of we have the monies.
TEXT> They're just coming from the wrong places.  I thought it was amusing the person from Newberry who was complaining about his taxes. I thought that was interesting. But there were there were people there from a lot of different places and new, new places.  Not keen. The usual is Pittsfield. Of course, Berlin was there with about 30 people there. Their mayor spoke. I didn't see Manchester this time. Keene was there. Yeah.  Of course. One of the, senators is from Kenya. Senator Khan is from Keene. So he's, And he again, he's very supportive of of school funding. The, but the place was packed. We had to stand for a couple of hours before we could even sit down. So there I think the message is coming loud and clear. Even some of the, there's a particular representative from Franklin who, that that I've spoken to, and he wrote a letter from his superintendent and board chair. Urging the resolution of this and to please come up with a budget that that serves students and, schools.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I was very surprised that, from what I've heard him say before, I was very surprised to hear him say that. So I think it is trickling down. The

[R10521-300] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Claremont, many people can't afford a home. And that's, that's the real the real issue. We've heard it in this room that the, you know, the tax burden is not that bad in Claremont. And that's true for some, but it's not true for many.
TEXT> So so this is going to seem like it's off the subject. But it's not. How many kids were at Stevens High School when you were in Stevens when you went to Stevens. Any idea? Like how many?  1200. Okay.  There were 1200 kids there. Plus there were kids in Saint Mary's, right?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Correct. About 90. Okay.

[R10521-304] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: 13, 80 or 90, right.
TEXT> How many kids are in the school right now?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: 520.

[R10522-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-05
PREV> Carolyn Towle: it, and I went, really? She goes. I love it, I love being there. I got lost six times and I have to go all the way down the stairs for gym, but I love it, so. Just a general comment. I mean, great attitude.
TEXT> So yeah, we're we're,   we're excited and I think it's a thing I forgot, but you just reminded me of it. We're hoping to have  students  from unity and from,  Claremont occasionally come in and perform and give an update from the school.  Talking about the things that are going on in,  in the board mentioned that before, and I thought it was a great idea, and we talked about it in our retreat to so that we can showcase  some of the really positive things that are going on  in, and also for them and their teachers to get the recognition  that, that, that they deserve. So,  we'll coming soon will we will start having a sign up sheet with that. We have an administrative meeting next week. And,  we're going to we're going to just try to schedule times and events and really try to highlight that for the community as well. So.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Good. And you any other questions for the superintendent?

[R10537-12] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Mary Woodman: Jason. Benwell, Rob. Lovett. Junior. Michael. Heather Whitney, Carolyn Toll and Frank Sprague here.
TEXT> So we have a agenda in front of us.  I've got a couple of things.  Under D, I'd like under the approval of minutes, I'd like to add a student representative report if Tyler Sullivan with us. I would also like to add approval of minutes. To the agenda.
NEXT> Unidentified: And. Steve, you.

[R10537-31] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I need to abstain, Miss Mary, because I wasn't here. I'm abstaining from that because I wasn't here on September 4th.
TEXT> So we have a student representatives. This is Tyler Sullivan, and have already given him the drill. He needs to go to the podium.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: So I am Tellus 11. I'm a senior at Stevens High School, and I'm the school board web. So at Stevens High School, we tomorrow on Thursday, September 19th, we

[R10537-32] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we have a student representatives. This is Tyler Sullivan, and have already given him the drill. He needs to go to the podium.
TEXT> So I am Tellus 11. I'm a senior at Stevens High School, and I'm the school board web. So at Stevens High School, we tomorrow on Thursday, September 19th, we are welcoming a representative from the National Student Voice, aligned with the Nellie May Foundation, who will be hosting 90 minute sessions with 15 students in each session, holding a total of three sessions throughout the school day, which would consist of a total of 45 minute round tables and 45 minute which ups. This would be a great opportunity for high school students to experience leadership in their school. The annual mini, the annual high school mini college fair, will be taking place tomorrow from 8 to 9 a.m., which will host lots of colleges in the area and in the country. It is a great way for our seniors and students to learn more about the college's payments and application process. On Tuesday, October 1st, we about nationally were known speaker start from value up to visit. Stephenson  asked to assembly followed by an evening for parents and a staff training  as well that afternoon.  Credit. Yeah. Credit. Start is one of the survivors of the Taliban high school shooting. He was in the library, where ten students were killed.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Craig was watch. Sorry. Craig watched. Two of his friends were killed on both sides of him in a short time gap. When the shooters left the library, Creed led

[R10537-33] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-09-18
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: to visit. Stephenson asked to assembly followed by an evening for parents and a staff training as well that afternoon. Credit. Yeah. Credit. Start is one of the survivors of the Taliban high school shooting. He was in the library, where ten students were killed.
TEXT> Craig was watch. Sorry. Craig watched. Two of his friends were killed on both sides of him in a short time gap. When the shooters left the library, Creed led a group of students out the library. The next morning, he would learn his sister, Rachel Joyce Dot was the first to be killed, since then tried to dedicated his life to Martin, a difference in Stewart's share in his and his sister's story, spitting on a number of issues. The biggest thing? Sorry, the British thing that the experience is correct, has had numerous appearances on Oprah, The Today Show and another local and  under one of the maritime, many others. He was appointed to a presidential panel of on school safety and has been  a consistent voice in in the media after incidents of school violence. His presentations have helped to stop hundreds of documented suicides as well as several school students. He has spoken to over a million people in live sentence methods with the seed stylist, who attended a wetland season A of college this past summer.  And they were beginning on Saturday on this Saturday, September 21st, for for their first day long intermission  called touring Colleges throughout New Hampshire. The weekly mentoring sessions with the students will begin on Tuesday, October 14th, immediately after school ends.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: The sugar River Valley Regional centers have an open house tomato from 6 to 730. Stevens High School has also hosted a homecoming dance on the side of the day,

[R10537-34] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-09-18
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: college this past summer. And they were beginning on Saturday on this Saturday, September 21st, for for their first day long intermission called touring Colleges throughout New Hampshire. The weekly mentoring sessions with the students will begin on Tuesday, October 14th, immediately after school ends.
TEXT> The sugar River Valley Regional centers have an open house tomato from 6 to 730. Stevens High School has also hosted a homecoming dance on the side of the day, September 21st hosted by Student Council. On September 26th, 2019,  a group of seniors are drawn to attend the college fair. Well over 200 colleges at Southern New Hampshire University. Claremont Middle School, the Claremont Middle School will be hosting an open house tomorrow from 6 to 7 as well. On September 27th, Claremont Middle School will have a dance sponsored by the seventh grade class from 7 to 9. On the 30th they will have their picture day. I also at Sims along with the elementary schools. They will now choose love curriculum and advisories. This quarter they are focusing on courage for Bluff Elementary School. They are hosting about the School of Abbot tomorrow from 6 to 7 as well. Designed now to be hosting the open House on September 25th from 530 to 7 p.m.  along with the barbecue. And they'll put today's on the 27th for Maple Avenue. They will be having an open house on September 24th from 6 to 7. Austin's and family of Maple welcome. And that's it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You don't get to sit down yet. Any questions? Mr. Peterson? And then.

[R10537-36] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: You don't get to sit down yet. Any questions? Mr. Peterson? And then.
TEXT> I had one question. Not really about the report, just out of curiosity, and I we may have discussed this in the past. I'm just trying to remember how is the student rep chosen? I'm just curious about it.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: It's by interested seniors. They don't speak with the high school principal and then it goes from from them.

[R10537-42] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-09-18
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Are you attending the leadership conference tomorrow?
TEXT> I'm actually one of the. I'm one of the only students who will be hosting it.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Wonderful. Can you make sure you give us feedback after you attend that? That would be great. Thank you, and welcome aboard.

[R10537-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> So,  this is the curator of the museum, the leader of the museum, and the person behind. I forget the  woman's name,  a post postdoc from Stanford who's running the whole program now for for  for Dartmouth. But these were some of the topics, and it's tough to see them at home that the students came up with, as did other science participants, about the topics which they want to learn about, and engineering  the brain science. That's the leading one down there.  And a few other things. The specifications.  I'm sorry, it's hard to be that  of, what makes a great theme. Okay. We we brainstorm that,  in the series, this is  the perspective of the teachers, the  perspective of the grad students and the team project leaders as to what they could offer and what they wanted to get out of the session going forward. These are some of the subjects. Botany, a lot of cell,  cell, really  high, high falutin science was going on that they were talking about. But I think what was really  out that I gleaned a lot from was hearing the teachers talk at the level as the graduate students as well, and also how this would play out, particularly in a middle school, classroom for kids to get excited about pursuing the field and the study of science.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So these are some of the, 3D printers that they had that were on a scale that I haven't seen in a school. Another interesting thing that they were talking

[R10537-52] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: gleaned a lot from was hearing the teachers talk at the level as the graduate students as well, and also how this would play out, particularly in a middle school, classroom for kids to get excited about pursuing the field and the study of science.
TEXT> So  these are some of the,  3D printers that they had that were on a scale that I haven't seen in a school. Another interesting thing that they were talking about is they have money as well to help fund or in loan some of this equipment to the schools participating. So that was that was very exciting to hear. These were some of the replica busts they made of the graduate students themselves  in there, just to see if it worked.  This is again, the same brainstorming  session. These  objects, they were mobility projects and they, they were given all the this apparatus. And when you see some of the equipment that they have  in the next couple of slides, they, they had a few labs where open tinkering labs like makerspace that you see at the  public school level. They have that in the the Graduate Thayer School of Engineering as well. And these are some of the things that every student can tinker on. Okay. The hybrid Formula One racing car  that they drop in and they work as part of a systems team to engineer that.  There's our teacher, as well as another science teacher from Vermont.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we were just looking at how, how and how that's designed. And also I talked to the lead biology teacher, and he also mentioned that we may be able

[R10537-53] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: are some of the things that every student can tinker on. Okay. The hybrid Formula One racing car that they drop in and they work as part of a systems team to engineer that. There's our teacher, as well as another science teacher from Vermont.
TEXT> And we were just looking at how, how and how that's designed. And also  I talked to the lead biology teacher, and he also  mentioned that we may be able to have a field trip and have the, the these cars actually come to the middle school and, and be on display. And we're going to try to arrange things like that for the community and have replica units with model cars that the students could work on and other types of design elements. So it was it was really it was pretty engaging.  Again, this this is a team of the engineers sitting  engineering students with the teachers.  This gentleman is a cognitive scientist. And, who is being wooed by who who did he say like Google or some Amazon or some basically what what you see that cap that he puts on his head? It's it's an imaging  neural cap that shows how the neurons fire in the brain to a pretty high degree of sophistication, even though it looks like a hat.  But he also talked about some of the experimentation you could do with that. And to show kids even guided thinking in different parts of the brain, light up. And and those are some of the things that we're going to actually be able to bring into the classes at  the middle school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're excited about it. And these are the PBL programs just walking around students working in the afternoons at the middle school. I just tried to snap a few

[R10537-107] Audra Buckland | Assistant (vice) principal, Claremont Middle School | 2019-09-18
PREV> Steve Moss: had to report. So I was hoping that you would be able to see some of that. And I'll be happy to take any questions. Or do you want to add. Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Go right ahead. Audra Buckland, our esteemed vice principal.
TEXT> I, in addition to Terry, I think we'd be remiss if we didn't talk about how we got to this point now. And it's been a multiple year effort that involved teachers, administrators at the district level, school level parents  at one point in time, looking at our schedule and looking at our curriculum and what happens in our building and saying, what? Where could we be, and visioning something else. And from the get go, one of the common threads was we wanted something that allowed for interdisciplinary instruction and more project based work for students, because we know that's how to engage students and keep them engaged in their learning.  So everybody was unified in that. And then we started to look at the schedule. So there was a lot that went into allowing this to happen and figuring out how we were going to get it into our schedule and a lot of support at every level to having that happen.  And also the teachers at the middle school are amazing. So these choice boards, as much as there's the logistics of creating them and then getting kids connected to them over the summer, Terri was sending out supportive articles and materials, and a lot of teachers have some background in this already, and we're excited about it.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: But it took many, many, many extra hours of work than what we pay them for as a district or as a school to to invest in this. And they're

[R10537-108] Audra Buckland | Assistant (vice) principal, Claremont Middle School | 2019-09-18
PREV> Audra Buckland: choice boards, as much as there's the logistics of creating them and then getting kids connected to them over the summer, Terri was sending out supportive articles and materials, and a lot of teachers have some background in this already, and we're excited about it.
TEXT> But it took many, many, many extra hours of work than what we pay them for as a district or as a school to to invest in this. And they're excited about it and they're doing it, and it's an extra class for all you know, they all had their preps and the things that they've been teaching over the years. But this is new and they I haven't seen a complaint. They're super engaged and they're excited to plan for the next one. We do have to think about how we're going to sustain that level of energy. The other, you know, some other things that were pretty exciting. We this just came up this afternoon while I was sitting here in the skillful teacher workshop. A teacher that was here, Courtney Steele, leaned over and said, oh, I just got an email during lunch I have to share with you. And she forwarded it. And it was from the director at the, I think, a nursing home in town. And I'm sorry, I don't remember exactly which one, but she has students doing a photojournalism project on Claremont and and what's out in our town and developing these video projects.
NEXT> Audra Buckland: And the director from this facility said that two, the two students that had gone in and interviewed him and wanted to take some video were incredibly professional in the

[R10537-109] Audra Buckland | Assistant (vice) principal, Claremont Middle School | 2019-09-18
PREV> Audra Buckland: it was from the director at the, I think, a nursing home in town. And I'm sorry, I don't remember exactly which one, but she has students doing a photojournalism project on Claremont and and what's out in our town and developing these video projects.
TEXT> And  the director from this facility said that two, the two students that had gone in and interviewed him and wanted to take some video were incredibly professional in the way that they approached him. And he was just so proud of, you know, these students from our local community coming in and being so polite and so professional. And he was extending an invite to them to  do some volunteering. So the connections that we're making real time for kids with, with community is also kind of an output of this. And then something that's very near and dear to my heart as assistant principal already, and it's early and I almost probably shouldn't say it out loud, but behavior referrals during this part of the day are incredibly down. And and there are kids, even kids in this video who struggled to sit through one class  last year and and are excited when they get to that class. But not only that, seeing some improvement in behavior in the morning, I think because they're looking forward to something in their day. And so I guess I will leave it on that. Hopefully, hopefully we'll have even more data to back that up.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Oh.

[R10537-111] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Oh.
TEXT> I just had a comment or a couple of them, but I'm ecstatic to hear that teachers are finally able to,  have a little bit more control over what they're teaching and how they're teaching, because that's something that's been extremely frustrating to me for  years, that teachers seem to be trapped in what they're required to do and how they do it. So I'm loving hearing that. The second thing is, I wish they had that when Aiden was in school because he would have loved it. And the third thing is, I'm hearing fantastic things from my daughter about, about her class that she's in. She's got an amazing teacher she's interested in doing, participating in the class now. And those are all things that I think make happy students and happy teachers. And  when they want to be there, we all know the results are way better. So I'm I'm just really happy. Like so happy. I could cry about it because it's kind of a big deal.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: When Mr. Moss is talking about engagement. That's what I was thinking about to his students on task and off task and,

[R10537-112] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: that I think make happy students and happy teachers. And when they want to be there, we all know the results are way better. So I'm I'm just really happy. Like so happy. I could cry about it because it's kind of a big deal.
TEXT> When Mr. Moss is talking about engagement. That's what I was thinking about to his students on task and off task  and,
NEXT> Unidentified: Shoot some of that video. You know.

[R10537-192] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: We have a,
TEXT> We have a, a series of committees that we have going that we're going to start the meeting dates for that.  And just for people at home to the I think what's that issue is the, the linkage right, of the competency based reporting to an actual grade, that it's confusing that every everyone remembers when they were in school what an A, B, C, or D was. And it's great that we have the competency based initiative throughout the state that was mandated. And  frankly, we've done a good job with that. But it doesn't have to be necessarily tied to that. And that that's precisely what we're going to discuss. And we also, if there are folks out there  in the community, parents or students who want to be a part of that, please contact us and we'll put you on that committee as well, so that we can hear your your viewpoints. And I know from the,  the, you know, the listening sessions that I did over the summer, this, this, this was present in nearly every meeting to, from different constituencies, from teachers, from parents, from students, community members. So it's very much a hot button issue.
NEXT> Unidentified: So so.

[R10537-200] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with. Multiple viewpoints. But some of the, some of the things they're not the I guess I, I don't know, a little bit, but people were talking people were talking about how, and this is what's really stuck with me is that it's starting to.
TEXT> Really, disincentivize students so that they feel like they're going to get there if they do it or don't do it. What's the point? Type of those were the types of things that I did to hear, and also kind of correlations and confusion  around around things like class rank around things like,  college admissions and things like that, that frankly, and you all just said this, that if it's if it's confusing things and there's a awful lot of work behind it, I would much rather opt to put all our eggs in the basket of getting more teachers, aligning the curriculum and doing these other types of gap analysis, other than kind of this somewhat esoteric connection between competencies and actual grades, you know, so that that that's that's if I my druthers but we we should be able to get back to you probably in a month or so  time with that. The results of that, that initial meetings of that committee and others safety.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And so.

[R10537-207] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead.
TEXT> So, Mike, you haven't been here long. But a hot topic for me has always been school safety. And what are we doing. And I feel like we've discussed it a lot of times, but we haven't really,  come up with any answers or definitive ways that we're working to improve our schools in regard to safety. So I'm just wondering if at some point we can I have a conversation around the recommendations from the Department of Homeland Security  and see how safety improvements are going to be worked into the CIP plan, and just start talking about how we can make our schools safer for, kids, because I feel like we're really doing a disservice right now.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carolyn.

[R10537-224] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We want to have just a standing one so that we see it in each one templated, and then we remove it. Okay.
TEXT> You know, from frequent from nearest to most. Right now it's  the, you know, what would probably be at the bottom of the list would be the update on the grading policy  and the school nurses report. But, the rest of these things I'd like to get, You know, moving on. The other thing that we had on, forever on future agenda items was the was class ranked last year. It was on their. And, that's a little bit controversial. And it really got on the agenda several years ago when, when, when a student who  had opted to take a lot of, band and chorus performing arts courses instead of weighted courses, this is a student who was a National Merit Scholar. Wound up 10th in the class. And, you know, that type of measure where she didn't wasn't able to take the weighted courses, drove her her rank substantially below where, where it should have been. And so I think that the, I think the discussion was more around valedictory groups, perhaps something like  what colleges might do, where it becomes less students can take what they want to take, rather than that course that they need to take to be first or second. So it becomes less of a race and more of a of a comprehensive experience. I think that's.
NEXT> Unidentified: What.

[R10537-227] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: If I recall correctly, that's sort of the genesis of that.
TEXT> It's I, I've been in the situations that some are as principal of some pretty competitive schools where, where  was the opposite where because Band Bandon was unweighted, it was more attractive to the highest level kids to take just just the opposite.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R10537-231] Unidentified | Unidentified - board-side interjections and questions (Medicaid, class | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: when they're applying against schools that do weight their grades in schools that don't. And if the college doesn't do something to to fix that, the kids from the schools where they don't wait, the grades are a huge disadvantage for scholarships and everything. So.
TEXT> Heather, you were talking about putting folks or students in the words in that you would are interested in eliminating the linear ranking?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, if it would be what what they would be is valedictory groups would be one group might be over three, seven, five GPA, and then a 352375325 to a

[R10537-246] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So I think one of the things we we had a meeting of the scheduling committee and that's another committee that we're going to put out there. And one of the things that came up, we were  just talking about the the number of hours per course and what are the criteria for for waiting and things like that and what what came up. And we don't have a solution. We're going to we're going to talk about some of the things that we can present at a faculty meeting, I believe, next week. But, the amount of time because the limit to the block schedule where particularly for Advanced Placement courses. So as opposed to courses that meet all year, that basically it's, it's even the, the schools that I'm used to that are block schedule schools. They have at least a half.  They go all year. They have a you used the term skinny differently than we used it in math.  They they have a they have a, they have a half year. So, so if a student took in also the schools, if you don't have at least a dozen AP offerings, every single high school in mass has at least a dozen. So the ones I had 17 and 18 and it wasn't it was not uncommon  for every nearly every student at Ashland High School took some type of AP  class, and usually 2 or 3 was that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think that's been a complaint for many community members, myself included, that we don't offer enough.

[R10537-250] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: They fill up very fast because we don't have enough.
TEXT> And kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Kids.

[R10537-251] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And kids.
TEXT> Kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Don't have the time to be as successful too, because they they only have them second semester instead of all year that they're competing against. So that's just these was

[R10537-256] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: But we.
TEXT> Also talked just conceptually about a few things where, it would be better in the current schedule. They teachers have approximately 120 to 140 students over the course of the year, six classes of, you know, 25 or so versus if they had five classes of 20, you know, they would just be they would have fewer kids, but for longer concentrated periods of time, periods of time over the course of a year. Well, you can see the growth in, in  particularly in my case, I was an English teacher. So the in a student's writing and comprehension all the way through, it's just some of those things that I mean, there's arguments for and against. But I, I think it's good I agree, Rebecca, that they, they want to look at it and, and and see what can happen. And you've heard what just happened. The middle school schedule was a block schedule just last year. And they worked for a couple of years looking at it, and they came up with all these innovative things that they're running with. So we'll see.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So plenty to discuss.

[R10558-27] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Please. And thanks.
TEXT> Okay. Student representative report. Oh. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Safety. School safety protocols.

[R10558-38] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: No.
TEXT> Because they're not here. That would be the next meeting. Student representative report. Mr. Sullivan.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: I do not get up for this today with two videos. And then I'll continue with talking.

[R10558-40] Craig Scott | Rachel's Challenge / Value Up speaker, heard in recorded video played  | 2019-10-02
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: I do not get up for this today with two videos. And then I'll continue with talking.
TEXT> My name is Craig Scott. Thank you for taking the time to listen to this. I'm sure you remember where you were when the Columbine High School shooting happened. I was under the table where two friends were killed next to me. On that same day, I learned that my sister, Rachel Joy Scott, was the first person he killed. Since that day, I spent my life speaking in schools. I've come to understand how difficult and challenging it is to be school principal. Not only do you have to oversee staff and students, but there's 100 issues that come with being the person in charge, and you inherit the issues that students walk into the building with every day. I've had the honor of serving on two presidential panels that deal with school safety issues. I've been featured on Oprah Today Show, Larry King Live, and many others. I've spoken to over a million students in life settings and had thousands of one on one conversations with students after missing.
NEXT> Unidentified: I was thinking about it.

[R10558-42] Craig Scott | Rachel's Challenge / Value Up speaker, heard in recorded video played  | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: I was thinking about it.
TEXT> As students struggle with anxiety, bullying, substance abuse, suicidal thoughts, and a pressure that comes with a coming of age in this digital world. I realized that so many issues come down to one thing, and that's value. If a student believes that they have high intrinsic value, they're able to make better life choices and treat others with higher value and respect, and are also more likely to engage in their own learning process. So after two decades of telling my sister's story and encouraging students towards a life of kindness and compassion, I've started the new chapter of my life and helping students to value up through school assemblies, teacher training, community engagement, and a school culture building system.  I'd like to join with you in your work. Thank you again for taking the time to listen to me. If you'd like to find out more about the work that we're doing, please visit value Dash up or click the link below. Thank you for all the work that you're doing to help your students.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: So I had to. Start it off on that note. But, so yesterday he appeared at our school, to talk to his staff, students, parents and leaders throughout the day.

[R10558-68] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Craig Scott: The single tear rolls down the streets for life. The second little dance.
TEXT> So he did threaten to take the Cardinal back to Colorado with him. But I don't think that happened. All right. So, my report I have tried to feature we're going to try to feature a school each school committee meeting. I figured I would stick with the high school. It's the  new drama coach, Mr. Tolman, and they're getting ready with their production  of,  What is it, Peter and the Star Catcher. Coming up in the in the fall. They're doing a great job resenting that. And like I said, we were able to all. It was pretty well attended. There were about 70 people there last night, and we really great audience participation, a bunch of students. And,  we spoke okay.  The Claremont budget so is very positive news. So the committee a conference budget pretty much that was compromised by the governor. And we we still have to sift through it and maybe we'll get some help with, with some of those  from, from Gary's perspective in a little bit. But,  almost everything that was promised in the first round we're going to have, we can't be too. We have to be cautious because it's only for the biennial. Okay. But it's just very, very positive news.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I have a couple slides on that. And we still have. I have to meet with the city manager. We have to wait for the official word to come in.

[R10558-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: about that. So we'll be here. That'll be the topic for the next couple of months as we sift through that. And we entered the budgeting format, which is going to be I think our first budget meeting is on the 20th, our our meeting.
TEXT> So it's very, very positive news.  I have a few. This is a nice breakdown. Again, these are not used to this. It's a little bit different in New Hampshire than Massachusetts. We don't have the actual documents from the state yet. Those are to come. But this all these are public documents on reaching higher. So, the current law that we had before there was a it did address, the, the stabilization, the annual reduction, 4%. Now, this one does not, but everything else is added back. Okay. The free the enhanced free and reduced lunch aid  is in this one. The Disparity Aid stabilization grants for student funding is the same. It's still increased, but full funding for kindergarten and the overall amount back to to. Oh I'm sorry. Okay I'm sorry about that. And the overall amount is,  almost 140 million more than was promised before. So it's very, very good news. And we're we're very excited about that.  The Claremont PD days for next year. Donna McGowan has put all of these together and met with everyone. We are following our themes that I'm going to go over in a in a minute for this year. With curriculum vertical alignment, focusing on trauma informed instruction as well.  And there's also a proposal day where they were continuing that they've the teachers have done a really good job in putting forward what they want in their content specific areas and offering those workshops.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're going to have the safety of focus on safety as well. And I'm going to go into that in a minute. But our initial strategic plan for this

[R10558-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Gotta get.
TEXT> Used to this. All right. We have. Three strategic initiatives that we're going to start with this year. There'll be more after this. But this is where the areas of focus that came up with all of the interview work from the strategic plan, in interviews, in the, in the entry process. So we're going to increase community involvement. We have police and fire departments have already committed  to being on the on this committee, the Health and Human services people, the court system, the individual school safety plans  and all other committees  going along with that. And I'm going to go over a long list of committees that we have. I think we have 8 or 10 that we're putting together. And, we're looking to coordinate with all the goals and the strategic objectives having to do with safety. Okay. One of the biggest, there's overlapping between the themes of safety and also the social emotional wellness. Which out of order. I'm sorry. Okay.  The second one is supporting, encouraging teaching and learning throughout Claremont. And that is with more teacher professional development classes, class visitations and observations, and supporting what teachers need in their classrooms in the work. That's to help the teachers and the students.  Curriculum alignment and assessment, review of the competency based standards and the grading process and the linkage for that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I know we've talked about that as a committee, and that's also we have a whole committee for that, that we'd love to have board members and people at home

[R10558-76] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: support services, basically attending to students needs and teaching them as, as they come to us as learners, understanding all of all of trauma informed and the types of things that our students have gone through so that they can really be ready to learn.
TEXT> So we're going to expand all of the trauma informed instruction, the professional development, as we spoke to,  and the consistency among the student assistant teams at each grade level and support services. Reviewing the school counselor positions and roles at all schools and in all programs to make sure that we have consistency and that we don't have any gaps in overlapping and make sure that we can do that better. Expanding mindfulness programing as well. And you heard the speaker,  Craig Scott, speak about that a little bit in the student initiatives, in leadership and feedback loops, so that we get to get out there more and hear from the students, particularly in the secondary schools, in the middle school and high school, but also looking at the work and seeing what kids are doing at the elementaries as well and hearing their voices. So and then obviously, to have all the policy coordination, there's a lot of traction with the policy review Committee and looking at everything, and there are a lot of changes across the state that we learned about today at the law conference that we also want to make sure we coordinate with. These are in not so much. I won't read through all of these, but I there for the board packets.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have a professional development committee. We have some health and wellness committees. And this is particularly for the people at home if you're listening. And we're going to also

[R10558-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: lot of changes across the state that we learned about today at the law conference that we also want to make sure we coordinate with. These are in not so much. I won't read through all of these, but I there for the board packets.
TEXT> We have a professional development committee. We have some health and wellness committees. And this is particularly for the people at home if you're listening. And we're going to also put out solicitation messages through the outreach, you know, through phone calls and networking, but particularly for the health and wellness, we're looking for parents in health practitioners, nurses or even doctors  or anyone who wants to help us with the subcommittees on allergies, in allergens in the school and policies on health and wellness, particularly around the  food offerings. Working with the Abbey Group, these were all threads that came up.  We have a student staff mindfulness initiative, as I mentioned before, was one of our identified strands. And we already have a staff wellness committee where we're trying to get all kinds of healthy lifestyle choices. Is was mentioned before on the board. There's a lead free Claremont initiative starting,  with the mayor all the way through, and we're looking for feedback on that committee as well. Technology Teaching and Learning committee particularly. We're looking for students and we're looking for educators, maybe people from other other districts or people from our districts looking as to how we can teach and learn. We're hoping to go to a 1 to 1 environment and over the next couple of years, we're close to that already. By the efforts of of Mr. Small and his crew safety, I already mentioned and safety.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It would be great to have particularly local police and fire officers or if people want to be on that or first responders or anything, any maybe community members who've

[R10558-103] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other comments. Thank you. Okay. Transitioning to our discussion items program of studies.
TEXT> In for Pat tonight. And  I we have the new program of studies that has been sort of edited and prepared and ready for for review highlights that I want to point out some changes on page eight, you'll see the honors and Advanced Placement classes. One change that  we want to look at is the AP courses. Currently, students who take an AP class  in the past have had the choice to take the test at the end of the at the end of the course  and often what's happened or students will take the class, they'll  do well on it. And then at the very end of the course. So get cold feet  and they elect not to take the exam, but they still get the weighted credit for that. So what we're trying to do is encourage students to sit for the exam and take it. So we're hanging with carrot out there. You'll have your grade, your GPA recalculated to 4.0 credit versus 5.0 credit if you don't sit for the exam. If that makes sense, you have to sit for the exam to get the AP weighted credit. So, let's to kind of end that practice of students signing up to, you know, take an AP test or take an AP class to get the weighted credit and not take the test at the end.  Let's see, other major changes that we'd like to highlight are not major changes.
NEXT> Mr. Morris: Any changes are, elimination of anything related to the alt program, because we don't really have an alternative learning program at this time. So that's been removed. And also in

[R10558-109] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead. If you want to go ahead.
TEXT> Just related to the running start courses, I know we didn't touch on that, but it's kind of like a little pet of mine. How I feel. It's very important that we really push that to students as a, as a, as a very viable and important option. And it has financial implications for students going to college that I think are missed on a lot of students as well as parents, that it seems like you might be paying a little bit upfront, but boy, it can save you a lot on the tail end.
NEXT> Mr. Morris: Yeah. Last year we had the director of the running start courses for the sugar River Valley Community College come and work with our staff. And, you know, we sent

[R10558-110] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: financial implications for students going to college that I think are missed on a lot of students as well as parents, that it seems like you might be paying a little bit upfront, but boy, it can save you a lot on the tail end.
TEXT> Yeah. Last year we had the director of the running start courses for the sugar River Valley Community College come and work with our staff. And, you know,  we sent out information to the staff that they, you know, if they have the correct qualifications, they can teach courses through that, through that program. I think we we offer Gary, Gary, don't we have a do we have any foreign language running start programs or. No,  no. Tomorrow we have I know we had some in the past. But yeah, we we encourage our staff to encourage the students to get involved in that because it does save a lot of money in the end. So. Okay. Yes, ma'am.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Two questions. Can you tell me again? What did you say? Something about the alternative learning program. That.

[R10558-112] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Two questions. Can you tell me again? What did you say? Something about the alternative learning program. That.
TEXT> That's right. So any verbiage in the in this document referring to the alternative program has just been removed because we don't have  the alternative program available right now to students.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So okay. So it says here under alternative learning opportunities. So is that different.

[R10558-116] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Can you.
TEXT> Alternative learning opportunities are ways that students can earn high school credits.  Okay. Such as an l o or something like that. But the alternative program was an alternative placement for students, so that has gone away.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I had a second question. I'm wondering. This might be for you, Mr. Tempesta. Are there any, have you been discussing with anybody the need for more Advanced placement classes?

[R10558-117] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2019-10-02
PREV> Mr. Morris: Alternative learning opportunities are ways that students can earn high school credits. Okay. Such as an l o or something like that. But the alternative program was an alternative placement for students, so that has gone away.
TEXT> I had a second question. I'm wondering. This might be for you, Mr. Tempesta. Are there any, have you been discussing with anybody the need for more Advanced placement classes? Like, I know oftentimes those classes are full, so there are students that would like to take those and they can't. So my son, for example, needed to his option was to go online and do a course online. And I found that to be frustrating as a parent, you know, to pay taxes and send your kid to school and then you need to send your kid, you know, to a classroom to do online learning. So I'm just wondering if in the future that might be a discussion about how we can make sure we're meeting the needs of kids who are interested in doing Advanced Placement classes, rather than turning them away and having them to do other things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, it's definitely it's it's already identified in there in a couple of ways. One is the the curriculum and the programing sequencing and the the time on learning for

[R10558-118] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So I'm just wondering if in the future that might be a discussion about how we can make sure we're meeting the needs of kids who are interested in doing Advanced Placement classes, rather than turning them away and having them to do other things.
TEXT> Yeah, it's definitely it's it's already identified in there in a couple of ways. One is the the curriculum and the programing sequencing and the  the time on learning for content theory all the way through. So from,  college prep expectation level to advanced placement. And then the other thing that we're looking at that we just started looking at that they had been looking at. They've had a scheduled committee. I met with them at the, at the high school. They have a schedule committee. We met and we did a presentation to look at different types of schedules, just throwing it out. But also we're going to try to have and that was one of the schedule committee that's on. There is in addition to that to try if there's a way and  it would be tough. We knowingly recognize that that it would be tough to link, the technical, the tech center,  the Steven's in the middle school and the similar schedule. But it's not impossible. But we're just looking at what the students need. And I think the middle school did after a couple of years of looking at that, they did a great job switching their schedule where they're doing the project based learning in the afternoon and front and loading the beginning of the schedule with great reviews.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we need to we need to look at the other other, you know, whether it's teacher assignments, whether it's, the rigor of the curriculum. And we're just starting that

[R10558-119] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I think the middle school did after a couple of years of looking at that, they did a great job switching their schedule where they're doing the project based learning in the afternoon and front and loading the beginning of the schedule with great reviews.
TEXT> And we need to we need to look at the other  other, you know, whether it's teacher assignments, whether it's, the rigor of the curriculum. And we're just starting that that's the that's what those, committees are about. And the other thing that I didn't stress enough that I, that I want to make sure,  it's too soon to come up with a three year plan. Right now, we know the immediate goals, those other three initiatives that we have for this year, it will be much more robust all the way through as we get the community's input. Student, parents, everyone over the next probably five months to try to get a draft ready for to hit it running for for next the beginning of next year. So but yeah, it's definitely on the on the map. Oh yeah.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's awesome.

[R10558-132] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, ma'am.
TEXT> Is it the plan for next year? I'm sure your answer is going to be yes, but is it the plan for next year for this to be available before? Like when kids are in eighth grade and they're picking their high school classes? It was really challenging because I had nothing to refer to. Will this be updated and revised and all that prior to the start of the next school year?
NEXT> Mr. Morris: So the plan going forward is to make this a living document.

[R10558-151] Gary | Stevens High School teacher, German exchange program coordinator (surn | 2019-10-02
PREV> Richard Seaman: He still would go over here and in Germany and whenever they have an opportunity. So they're very good friends.
TEXT> And I think there was a student who was partnered with Aiden Cahill about two exchanges ago, who was back this past summer visiting for the second or third time. So  that's not the norm. But I'm really happy to see that when students,  you know, have formed that bond with each other, that they want to maintain even after they're not required to anymore as part of a school trip or whatever. So I think it's made a lot of difference to a lot of kids, and  I hope it's something that you would be willing to support and let us continue.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I love it.

[R10558-178] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Of you.
TEXT> It's I mean, it's kind of a big deal because you and I think you probably know this too, but it's my understanding that we're not going to get reimbursed for any services that have started since. When? June. July 1st. Right. And the second thing is, when you have people, you have student who gets referred and the team decides that they would like an occupational therapy evaluation or a speech value or whatever. And then that happens, we're able to do that because we can sign the ORF and deliver the services. So what I'm understanding now is that that would have to be done by the people that you listed. So my concern is probably the same as everybody else is here. If you have people who are recommending services who are not circled in that area, how exactly is that going to? How exactly does that work?  If you have physician's assistant saying, yes, we need  an occupational therapy evaluation, but they don't have any training in the area of occupational therapy. I feel like that is going to set us up for a disaster, because now we're going to get 4000 referrals on students that may not have actually needed an occupational therapy or a speech about. And that's going to be a huge cost to a district, all districts.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: In some ways, I agree what you're saying, but think of it this way at least I think of it this way. When you have somebody who needs physical therapy,

[R10558-182] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (identified by content and Tempes | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: I mean, I would agree.
TEXT> With them back on that one. The the services that we provide that are currently Medicaid buildable  are determined by  the child's. You know, I team the special education team, which includes a team of professionals that are practicing within the scope of their license, whether they're pathologists or OTS or whatnot. You know, it's pretty rare that a doctor will order us, order a service that a school is then required to implement. That's really a typical.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And in my experience, when they have done that, when a doctor has every single time, actually when a doctor has given the recommendation that a child be evaluated by

[R10558-183] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (Vice Chair per roster; not stated on th | 2019-10-02
PREV> Ben Nester: team of professionals that are practicing within the scope of their license, whether they're pathologists or OTS or whatnot. You know, it's pretty rare that a doctor will order us, order a service that a school is then required to implement. That's really a typical.
TEXT> And in my experience, when they have done that, when a doctor has every single time, actually when a doctor has given the recommendation that a child be evaluated by a therapist in the school setting, they typically give recommendations for that therapist as well. And I can't even tell you how often those recommendations have nothing to do with what you deliver as a service in a school based model. So I think it's just a very scary, scary road. We're going down.
NEXT> Unidentified: Heather go ahead.

[R10558-189] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Gary Merchant: So therefore what CM's is saying the PT can provide the service but they can't diagnose the service.
TEXT> So. So a point of clarity. These are these are people. These are students who are income eligible to receive Medicaid services. Correct. I mean, this is we're talking about low income people because they because technically they don't, get more affluent people don't have access to Medicaid. Yeah. So so in the typical frank blow up, the model. Model. Is there not an opportunity here to push  everything out of the school and into the medical community?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, yes.

[R10558-206] Gary Merchant | NH State Representative, Claremont Ward 2 (introduced by the chair) | 2019-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Of that tax relief.
TEXT> I'll talk about there's the stabilization grants, which superintendent spoke to. The stabilization grants are fully funded now. So it's going to happen, though, because we lost one quarter. The remaining three quarters will be a catch up. So the next three quarters, we fully funded 100% of the stabilization grant. And then each quarter will have one third of what was in the first quarter. So you're going to have that coming in over the course of the state fiscal year until June. Also in, there is going to be additional aid for free and reduced lunch. It's also with the basically try to do is look at what's going on within the communities that have  challenges, financially challenged because of the composition of the community in trying to recognize that. So if you look at where communities are receiving the most grant, it's coming from communities that need it the most versus it being based upon each individual student. So in a lot of ways, what the state did made a lot of sense, because they're trying to earmark the funding to the communities that truly need it. The issue, though, is that when you look at 2020, you're only looking for that amount of aid in 2021, which is next fiscal year.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: There's a bump in there for the called disparity aid, which is really kind of a nice of saying capital aid. The question, which I don't know is what are

[R10558-245] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2019-10-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. Just a quick little.
TEXT> Comment actually participated in or my children were in a school system that had an advanced practice nurse  on staff, and a lot of medical care was actually transferred to the school system. And it was a high acuity system, and they were getting vaccinations in-house. I mean, it can be I'm not suggesting, but what I'm saying is that a role like that can be a very powerful, transformative role that can actually bring revenue into a school district,  and relieve pressure on families that are at least able to access services independently for a variety of reasons.
NEXT> Unidentified: So, so.

[R10558-248] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in, if we had a psychologist, if we had a nurse practitioner, if we had those things in, obviously would pass the charges on to the people who tuition in at the same time, just a very basic idea that we're servicing our own folks.
TEXT> But some, you know, 1 or 2 tuitions coming in can pay for the whole program. And that's what we've had a had some success with. And that's what we we're looking to replicate, but slow and steady with the data to support it and with, with kind of some leads for people who might come in ahead of time. So if you if, you know, you have,  the catchment area, as we call it in the biz is if we know that we have the potential to bring in 5 or 10 kids in addition to, you know, if we have five or so of our own, then it's cost effective to kind of go that way. And that's what we'd be looking at, costing and presenting to the board for approval. But  we've had a lot of we've already had initial success, and there's a lot of room to have some pretty expansive success with that. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So you'll keep us apprized on this progress with this person.

[R10558-253] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Really important. Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> The other thing is maybe there may be a opportunity for partnership. Hitchcock or Valley Regional, maybe even a med student. I'm not sure you know how all that would work out or. But there may be a opportunity there to partner with somebody.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R10558-293] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Is that just graduation or moving? Transferring. That's all encompassing, right? Over the four years?
TEXT> No, I think it was from the beginning of the year what the class started with in. Senior year, senior year, and how many kids started and how many kids graduated.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, last.

[R10558-296] Unidentified | Unidentified - single remark on graduation numbers | 2019-10-02
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: Year was not there.
TEXT> Wasn't so many kids that graduated last year. That should have. During the summer. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. So I want to because because you had somebody we had talked earlier about alternative programing. I want to find out where. Sure. If what's happening with kids who

[R10558-297] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Wasn't so many kids that graduated last year. That should have. During the summer. Okay.
TEXT> Yeah. So I want to because because you had somebody we had talked earlier about alternative programing. I want to find out where. Sure. If what's happening with kids who don't, spare to what the options were several years ago. What are the options now other than,  online.
NEXT> Unidentified: Or whatever?

[R10567-43] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-10
PREV> Richard Seaman: This month. End of the year. That's right. Yeah that's right.
TEXT> Thank you. So,  and then we we still have, we're looking at and we have already,  Mr. Seaman and Jamie Young have already reconfigured an area up there for HR already making improvements, and it's going quite well. So I think the biggest item that I had for the viewers at home again. Next slide please.  Next. This is just a budget. Keep going. We talked about the SA six strategic plan and things that we're looking at that we wanted to we're putting committees together and we have members, teachers, administrators from both unity and from Claremont on these teams. And  I also want to emphasize with the with the board and with people at home, we're looking for people from the community to help  help us with this plan. And I'll go through the strategic  objectives again.  I had a nice visit today to   the community college, and  we were talking about some of the atoms that were brought up about  running start and, and kind of working together  and  for the benefit of, of, you know, not only potential projects and offerings that we could have that would support both  the entire saw, but also trying to  look for ways that we could get kids to take advantage, more students to take advantage of the amazing programs that they have.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and I say that because they also they volunteered to be on 2 or 3 committees today. So I'd like to thank those folks. And we're looking for that.

[R10577-2] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: My position. Here. Here. Carol and Joel.
TEXT> And here we have an agenda in front of us.  I would like to move,  g citizens comments between A and F, so we would have the student representative report, and then we would have citizens comments. Any other adjustments to the agenda? Did you say something about policies? Okay. So nothing to do with policies tonight. So we'll strike that and let's see under discussion items. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: Make a motion to approve the agenda as amended. I'll second that.

[R10577-8] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Second.
TEXT> Heather. Further discussion. All those in favor?  Aye. Opposed? Great. Mr. Sullivan's student report. Student rep report.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R10577-11] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-16
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: Franklin to Hillsborough and Winter Storm High School, and I'm pretty sure I missed a couple. At this conference, student started to interact with other students from the from these other schools to come up with ideas for answers to the questions of the day.
TEXT> I did share with everybody the agenda of the day that has all the T questions. The main question of the day was taken in a community of diverse people live peaceably problem solve and major effective decisions to other.  I was so in the fall  and much we will be going to a hype conference. And some of the ideas that we will be bringing that we have brought back to Stevens High School.  From yesterday was we are going to have,  opportunities for teachers to get to know,  students as people and beyond classrooms.  More in store, morale boost and community activities. Like we're going to have more pep rallies, like we're going to have a kindness week and said of a spirit week. We don't have.  And also, the students who went would be hosting a assembly for the school of what we learned yesterday. We don't have more communication. And the student, Jerry, is one of the ideas that we're hoping to bring.  It's. Well, if a student gets a hall passed as they were or a detention past as they were out in the hallway, they didn't challenge it and bring it to a group of students who also led the to be in the student, Joey.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: 11 students went on the Women and Engineering Fair trip to the River Valley Technical Center in Springfield, Vermont. This was the spirit and opportunity for these young women. Yesterday,

[R10577-18] Dale Chenette | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (identified as 'Dale, the principal | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: It is.
TEXT> Is it okay? Oh, for the TV. Okay. We can hear you. So, as you know, the three elementary principals came to you  at the end of last year and had requested a, you know, to pursue an outdoor education program.  Tonight, I have. And you granted us that to do that. So tonight what I have is a couple of three of my teachers and a number of students, and they're going to show you some of the things they've been learning through the outdoor education. And then I have a short  slideshow of some pictures that some of the other classes have done as well.,
NEXT> Unidentified: To help us with our presentation, because they absolutely love how we are taking them outside. They are enriched because they're putting their science into learning outside. We're gonna bring

[R10577-36] Dale Chenette | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (identified as 'Dale, the principal | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: And while he's chewing that up, it's not a bunny rabbit. Not funny rabbit. Anybody else for? There was a point the kids wanted to put good one. The first one put in dead bugs. So you're welcome.
TEXT> I think that's the the loop through. So again, I want to I just want to thank the board for allowing us to do this. I know the students are  enjoying it. And I think we're getting a lot of great learning out of it. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. All set.

[R10577-79] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: How many staff members is it take to get?
TEXT> All right, so we'll keep this. We'll keep this short, but we are going to hit the high point. So, we do have liftoff with the with the new program that you're all fully aware of because you're part of the process.  The the program is, entitled pride, and the program is in place, and it's going well. So, you know, we can all take great pride in its implementation. Okay. Thank you. Right. Understand? We're all tired, so we're going to we're going to go through, like I said, and hit the high points here. Pride stands for project based, respectful, individualized data driven education. That's what I did not come up with that Sherri McDaniel Thomas does. We're going to give her a credit for that. And she will be speaking with us in a moment. I just wanted to hit a couple points here. So a brief history for those of you that maybe weren't here when we started this discussion. And the board in fact started this discussion before I came on as director  last year. There's been interest for a long time in, you know, developing a program here that rivals some of the out of district placements and private providers that we send students to. And, and I believe that we've done it.  And if you recall, we had several different contracts actually in place with private providers that were going to come in and run a satellite program for us.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Those didn't pan out. The contracts changed in some cases at the last minute. And so there were financial reasons that we that we bailed on those. But we, so

[R10577-90] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Jason Benware: is the motivation for them to want to release those kids back to us? I mean, they're a revenue stream for them. Sure, sure. So do you make the decision when they're coming back, or does the place where they're at decide if they're ready?
TEXT> Ultimately we do. Okay. Where are the where the district of liability. Where the l a so we we ultimately make that decision. I've had the, you know, I went through the same exact process, the mental process that I think you're going through there and what what we've discovered or what I've discovered in the past couple of years, is that there are students in schools knocking down the door to get students in to these private schools. And so for them to lose a student here and they're back to a district, they've got a they've got a line of 20 other kids ready to roll, you know. So it's interestingly, there's no impact on their on their revenue stream, I think okay. The other question is and this may be better Sherry is it sure. Yes. May be better answered by her.
NEXT> Jason Benware: But if not so we've got these kids at these placements. Yep. We're bringing them back. You guys have been real busy building this program. What kind of measurement tool

[R10605-2] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: 19841 received from the State of New Hampshire in the current fiscal year, with no money to be raised from taxation, and further, to name the school board as agents to expend okay, and that that needs a majority vote in which to be enacted.
TEXT> And the reason that we're looking to do that is because we we already have  in similar to what happened  last year, money was approved  for a special ed program.  And I'm going to talk about this in detail when I present it.  That in fact has has  been allocated approximately the same amount of money. I think it was 637,000 last year. And that that,  for example, was that was put into the  the pride program at Maple Elementary School. And what that did was it brought students back to the district,  and students were educated in  the least restrictive environment in their in their town, as as we want to do. We already  based on the success of that  with Mr. Nester and his team,  we're we're already earmarking looking at some special education programing for next year. And what we would like to do. And I'll get into the tail in this in a few minutes. But there were three areas. One is already we think we may have a need. It's still it's just November, but we think we're going to have a need to expand potentially on the pride program, another classroom. We also have identified  nine students that I'll talk about,  specifically, three of  whom are currently in district now.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we may be looking at creating a program where they may be leaving the district for a specialized program that we think that we can do in-house better, frankly.

[R10605-3] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have a need. It's still it's just November, but we think we're going to have a need to expand potentially on the pride program, another classroom. We also have identified nine students that I'll talk about, specifically, three of whom are currently in district now.
TEXT> And we may be looking at  creating a program where they may be leaving the district for a specialized program that we think that we can do in-house  better, frankly. And then I'll talk about some of the specificity of that in a bit. And we also have nine students who may come back. Okay. So  that's the second  program that we're looking to develop. And the third program is the one that you know about anyway, that existed before. It was the alternative programing at Stevens High School.  And there were  a couple of names of that, the Owls program, and it had some credit recovery aspect to it, and also some  identified  populations for kids struggling. And that has also  been brought up in context, I believe,  even last meeting, that if we had  a  way to  look at the numbers and make sure the graduation rates, I know that we're going to be reporting out on that to make sure that we have the appropriate amount of kids graduating. If they're not graduating, do we have anything to prevent them from dropping out? So that's what we've earmarked so far. What I started to do with Mr. Nestor is look at,  look at the funding for these programs, the identified populations.  If the feasibility to get started on those  could be, in fact,  funded for about $650,000. And we know that we can.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we kind of vetted those numbers, and we expect to present even more detail on that at the hearing as well. But we already we already looked at that.

[R10605-4] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: so far. What I started to do with Mr. Nestor is look at, look at the funding for these programs, the identified populations. If the feasibility to get started on those could be, in fact, funded for about $650,000. And we know that we can.
TEXT> So we kind of vetted those numbers, and we expect to present  even more detail on that at the hearing  as well. But we already  we already looked at that. And we're pretty confident that can happen. We know that.  And the other thing that I want to stress that was it was a little wordy and verbose. Lawyers speak with the with the warrant article how it's worded, but what would happen if we didn't use it? It can only be used in that specialized trust fund.  Like other trust funds in the town, it can be only used for this purpose in also vetted. And if it's not used for this purpose, it has to go back to the taxpayers. But we feel like  it's it would just it would make a lot of sense to be able to get started on this program now, particularly  the programs that would keep people here this year. Okay. And we have people who who maybe leave who may be going out this year. And if we get started with it,  not only do we  can we keep them in district, but once these classrooms, if those three programs are out there, we obviously take care of our population here, but we also have the ability as a revenue stream for other students from other towns to come and potentially pay in.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, that's, that's what we that that's what we'll be talking about in a little bit more detail when I go up for my report. But that's that's our plan

[R10605-23] Richard Seaman |  | 2019-11-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: I sorry.
TEXT> So so this is additional money that we're talking about is essentially expanding upon a program that we that was accepted last year that has shown to be successful thus far in keeping kids that have been sent out of district, back into our district, and also saving our district money over time. The the pride classroom, the one on the far left of that slide, has already been successful, and there's already been more success in that program than projected for by the end of the year. For this year. I believe,  Ben, that your suggestion is it's going to be much more successful than  initially had been planned on year one. And I believe that when this was rolled out, the payback on this program was thought to be 1.3 years.  Therefore, seeing the success of this program, the district has decided to try to expand this program. Also look at expanding an autism program. We spend an awful lot of money to send kids out of district for that.  The idea is to keep them closer to home and over time, once again save our district more money.  And then the last part that Mr. Tempesta talked about is basically sort of  a  parallel program to what the Owls program was before it was sort of removed, and that's keeping kids graduating and  being more productive. So I think, that's my best explanation for that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, yeah.

[R10605-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: entering a district and revising the, the, the plan, that was strategic plan that we had before looking at all of the things that that we got to last year and didn't get to and then looking for another 3 to 5 year plan out.
TEXT> And that's what the committees are doing right now. And they'll be doing that over the next few months. Any any people at home that would like to again, a kind of a plea of folks, folks want to come in. We're going to be sending out a letter to everyone  asking for their assistance, particularly with curriculum, with health, with safety planning, with the schedule, with curriculum. Particularly parents or former students who alternative programing, anyone who had a connection with those in the community. And you want to contact us. We'd love to have your input as we as we make the plan that will drive the instruction here at Claremont for the next 3 to 5 years. So, shameless plug for those out there who want to who want to join, join, join us.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the warrant that I just read, okay? And we don't don't need to read it again. I want to talk about and I'm going to get into the

[R10605-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and I'm just saying this because the last four years before I came here, I worked as the director of the largest special ed collaborative in New England and have had a lot of success recently building programs just like this, very cost effective programs.
TEXT> And in talking in my transition in here, talking with Mr. Nestor last spring, as he was working on his program and the ideas that he has and how it has already paid off, I frankly haven't seen that type of turnaround. Normally you start having returns on a program like this at least a year or a year and a half out. He's already three quarters of the way there in November of the first year. It's really remarkable, and I can't stress that enough. So,  in the program that we're looking to to bring in the autism program  partnered with the New England Center for for children, which Mr. Nestor had already been doing the work for last year,  is the premier program in New England for the autism population  in those out placements or out of district tuitions, to send people to programs if they can get there can be very costly and we know that we can build one here as well. The last program that I'll talk about is the, the alternative program at Stevens High for dropout prevention and credit recovery, and also kids with social emotional needs  to have that either on site or off site with embedded mentorship and job training. It's a program we've already been  looking at developing, looking in,  building with other area school districts, seeing what they're doing, and also borrowing from models from around the other regions in the state.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the pride program, this is the exact graphic from the presentation from last year, and that is working pretty well. If you want to join me up here, Mr.

[R10605-68] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: driven by the dollars as much as we are driven by educating students in their town, in the schools that they in the neighborhoods that they grew up in, in district. It is is the best thing to do for students, makes the most sense.
TEXT> And it's it's it's the law. If you if you can create a program,  it's in the least restrictive environment. That's always the goal. So we also have three students right now that might need to  go out of district because they are not  meeting with success  that we would like to have or is required in the regular classroom now. And if those students go out this year and again, remember, this is money coming to us this year that we could use. We could keep them in district, and then we wouldn't have to pay  the money for them to go out. So and we're pretty confident we can put something together. We have put, as I alluded to before, I have put programs like this, similar programs  together like this have a have a long history of doing that in the in these programs were already researched last year. Okay. With Mr.. Mr.. Nestor  the Stephens high program, we looked at having a part time  teachers we part time teaching sections for the teachers that we already have and potentially backfilling those teachers with new teachers.  For the sections that we would need with experienced people for the at risk population, I believe there's 10 or 15 students already identified.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And when we looked at historical data from the last couple of years, we think that that number could be as high as 30. Okay. As going back to some

[R10605-74] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-11-06
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: offered there and talk to professors firsthand on November 15th. Students will attend the Teen State College Access Convention, which will allow them to tour the campus tucked in missions representative and try their campus food. I'm going to wayside or something from last week.
TEXT> I have two other students who attended the care conference here today  on October 15th.  They made a presentation that they were present. This was the conference that we went to at Colby Sawyer College.  With the superintendent and Principal Berry and a couple other students.  And this is a committee in defense of HL.
NEXT> Grace Thorton: Hello. My name is. Grace Thorton, and this is Megan Mullin. We're both seniors at Stevens High School. We went to the care conference. I think October 15th. And the

[R10605-75] Grace Thorton | Stevens High School senior, Friends of Rachel / CARE conference presen | 2019-11-06
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: here today on October 15th. They made a presentation that they were present. This was the conference that we went to at Colby Sawyer College. With the superintendent and Principal Berry and a couple other students. And this is a committee in defense of HL.
TEXT> Hello.  My name is. Grace Thorton, and this is Megan Mullin.  We're both seniors at Stevens High School.  We went to the care conference.  I think October 15th.  And the care conference is the community action. Action resulting in experience.  So what happened at the Care conference is a group of students from Friends of Rachel Club went to the care conference at Colby Sawyer College. We spent the day meeting with other students from different schools around New Hampshire, and we discussed and answered different questions about our community. So this is our schedule of what we did that day.  We got there and we registered. We got t shirts. We got name tags. And then we sat at different tables and we had breakfast together and met other students from different schools. Then a professor from Colby Sawyer College,  and she actually went there as well, spoke to us. And then,  we went to with our breakfast groups. We went into different parts of the building and then discussed questions.  So the first question was, what common goals and values unite a community?  What opportunities exist in a community? How does one educational environment impact community?
NEXT> Grace Thorton: What aspects? To find a leader within a group of individuals. And then how can different communities work together to impact change? After we answer those, we all came together

[R10605-77] Grace Thorton | Stevens High School senior, Friends of Rachel / CARE conference presen | 2019-11-06
PREV> Grace Thorton: in our schools that help out the community. So we have like the care club, the Key Club, and like the Key Club, they help out the soup kitchen and during things giving, they raise a bunch of turkeys to give to families in need.
TEXT> How does one educational environment impact a community? We,  I went actually to I moved to North Carolina a few years ago, and now I'm back. But at my old school, there were 1600 kids,  and we weren't definitely close knit as it is at Stevens High School.  Here they very come together and they if someone's, like, in need or we need to come together, it's very helped. Like they do that here. Now my old school, they didn't. So here in this community we really help each other out, especially in schools. What  aspects define a leader within a group of individuals?  When we talked about having communication skills, patients empathy, reliability and positivity.  With this group, we actually played a game where someone you have to if you want,  around.  We hold on to the person's shoulders and we went around.  And they actually had their eyes closed. And so we told them, you know, go left, go right. And then then we played again when we only had to tap their shoulders. And it was a lot harder. So having the communication. Yeah. And no talking like couldn't talk to them. So you had to like they could have run into a chair but we had to tap on their shoulder. So you definitely like without those communication skills.
NEXT> Grace Thorton: Like it was very difficult. So being a leader, you definitely have to help others with your words. And being patient and kind and not being like, like harsh on

[R10605-81] Grace Thorton | Stevens High School senior, Friends of Rachel / CARE conference presen | 2019-11-06
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: it, not cover up all the handprints. So we're still ripping into that, and we do the hallway high fives between second and third block Monday, Wednesday, five days and the Four Friends Ratios club meets Tuesdays and Thursdays, but the subcommittees meet different days.
TEXT> Going back to the social media, we actually have an Instagram page. It's the four club compliments.  And each week we,  give a student of the week and the teacher of the week. So a student who has shown positivity towards other and who's like excelling. And same with the teachers. There's teachers who treat their students like their kids or just like, show them so much kindness and are patient with them. So we do that every week. We post the compliments like or just quotes that like, keep people going. Like keep your head up.  And I know with that group, we also,  a few weeks ago we put sticky notes in the bathrooms. So, like, positive. So,  you know, people can be very upset and they look at it and they can have a smile on their face. And going to the high, high five hallways.  I think it was it. Tuesday and Thursday. Monday, Wednesday, Friday.  We go during there and  we there's music playing in the hallways and we high five a stranger. Anybody give them a smile on their face? We do the high five the roundabout and the booty bump.  And it just connects strangers like some people you don't know. It just  connects each other and give them a good day. And. Yeah. You have anything you want to add? Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: So. Yeah.

[R10605-199] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, especially if we can use it.
TEXT> And I do know I have observed the, I observed the, the middle school students. Playing organs and pianos.
NEXT> Unidentified: You know, so.

[R10605-252] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Jason Benware: timeline of how this was handled. And I think that that's something that people probably ought to know. Yeah. So I don't know how we approach that, but I do know that it's believe me, it's concerning a lot of people for very good reason.
TEXT> And I and I do think too, in that meeting, if there is a briefing on that, obviously we'd have school council.  Yeah. You know who, who, who was the same school council that was here then just to clear the air. If there I, I don't think there was a it was you know, I can't speak to that wasn't here but but I do know and and I, I do know that we've been working hard to kind of instill the public confidence in what we're doing and being very deliberative about everything that we're doing. And we'll continue to do that in  from the perspective speaking of the whole saw, and we also spoke to the special ed department and to the teachers who were around then, and even the ones who weren't  to assure them that that, when this was reported, that it's reported at all internally and  that we, we get it and that we will act on anything like this. And that's why in the letter that I put out to the public,  I wanted, we set up a confidential tip line that would come right in. And anything that's come in on that, we've  responded back to  that. We'll take it. You know, any any allegation where a student may be a danger or anything incredibly seriously and will act on it immediately.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And you have my word on that as a educator and a parent and an advocate for, for for students. So, other hand.

[R10605-253] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: confidential tip line that would come right in. And anything that's come in on that, we've responded back to that. We'll take it. You know, any any allegation where a student may be a danger or anything incredibly seriously and will act on it immediately.
TEXT> And you have my word on that as a educator and a parent and an advocate for, for for students. So, other hand.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I had.

[R10605-256] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-11-06
PREV> Unidentified: A business.
TEXT> A community member approached me recently and brought up a couple of interesting points about, the district in regards to people who move here from other towns or kids who integrate into schools from, say, private schools and things like that. And her her observations were that it's very difficult to know anything about how these things happened. For instance, my daughter went from an elementary school to our middle school, and they had a pretty good orientation, and they brought them in and there was a a  fair amount of similar. Yeah, they assimilated them into the group. How? However, if a kid came from, say, Neca and they were to go into that group or they came from an outside source, that information really wasn't terribly readily available. So I was wondering if we could put it on the agenda for December about possibly setting something up,  on a centralized site like the essay website of, hey, coming into the district, this is what you need to do. Here's what you need to do. Number one. Secondly, people who come to visit and have heard this from people who are involved with economic development in this town,  that people who come to visit, there's no easy or convenient way to set up a tour of a school.
NEXT> Jason Benware: In other words, they have to go to the essay, but then the essay directs them to the school itself. Whereas it would seem to me, if you're trying to

[R10605-261] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-06
PREV> Jason Benware: 20th know the December. December meeting.
TEXT> So just from my, my own experience, having been a, a guidance director, people come in and register their students and they may not know that we would need some evidence that they're a resident.  They may not know that we actually need proof of of custody in certain circumstances. They may not know that they have to sign  the form, a release form. Which school do they sign that up before? After they come or before they leave? So there's a lot of information out there that I think that people find frustrating when they when they come to a new school, it's already stressful enough given that they're moving.  And it would be nice to have a sort of a checklist of if you're if you're coming into Claremont, you will need this  before you leave your old school. Make sure you do these things, sign a release so that we can get  records and such.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Signing up for the school bus two. That's a big.

[R10605-264] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Unidentified: One on the six website.
TEXT> There is under parents. If you go on to the parent what was his parents. It does say student registration and it does talk about if you're enrolling your student, you need to bring a copy of the following. And it does say birth certificate, proof of residence, immunization records. So it does say that type of thing. But I think I mean you have to look under parents and.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Then it's not easy to navigate.

[R10605-275] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2019-11-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Well, one thing I noticed when I joined the board and I kind of did a demographic kind of analysis of different school districts, a lot of our budget, part of our budget that we're lacking is our tuition students. And if there is any way that we could attract tuition students actively and particularly for the high school, maybe an open house.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Run a bus to Corniche.

[R10605-280] Unidentified | Unidentified - short interjections | 2019-11-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: They all go to Windsor.
TEXT> We do have students.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: That are tuition.

[R10605-284] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-06
PREV> Unidentified: And.
TEXT> We do have students in our tuition.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Lot less than.

[R10605-287] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2019-11-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: We know.
TEXT> But a lot less than other other communities in particular. You know, if you start looking at other communities, our tuition students are.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Way.

[R10623-21] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Second.
TEXT> Okay. Further discussion. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Great. Student representative report. Mr. Sullivan.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: So? For Stevens High School. Today was I applied day, and we had 57 students send out applications on 188 applications were submitted. Just the review, a point of reference.

[R10623-24] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (chair: 'Mr. Sulliv | 2019-11-20
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: If any doubt, staff of board members or interested in attending the feast, please email or call Diane Landry. Theme for Bluffs duel in November is driver to the students and staff are returned to bring a nonperishable item from the six of the 26.
TEXT> All items were due to the Claremont Soup Kitchen, and they have the holiday concert on December 12th at 6 p.m.. For just now, they'll be hosting a family literacy celebration on Thursday, December 5th. Doesn't have concert dates?  I'll turn that out in a first rate of summer ninth as it's 32nd and third grade, December 16th as it's 34th and fifth grade, December 11th at 630 from April, I'm on Friday. They will be having a PTO movie night from 6 to 8 p.m. in the gym for the River Valley Regional Center, the SRB  t c culinary program for the things different holiday that the program made you pies this year. Order forms are available at the center admin office. In partnership with Sullivan County. The adult education program where we offer when a machine tool class out in the winter for Sullivan County residents at no cost. Details on how to sign up for this course will be in the four timing. The sorry RTC use Perkins funding to purchase two new 3D printers for the middle school technology classroom. This is an excellent opportunity to engage middle school students in what the center has to offer them. In high school, Mr. Pope's engineering classes,  And Heather Whitney told me to put in this field. If you're if you're an eligible voters show up tomorrow night and that's it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Or or comments.

[R10623-72] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. So I would like to, Mike. Mike.
TEXT> So the first thing I want to talk about is the,  the programing that we're  hoping to and answer questions and be specific about the programing we're looking to put in with that is on this special vote special meeting tomorrow night.  We have We have at least three programs, okay, that we want to, to put in the first program  that you know about, you know, about the pride program. And I also have Mr.. Can speak to this as well.  We already anticipate  that we will need another  classroom  with that in we have had success with the pride program already, with having students stay in district. And the needs  of students in the elementary school are pretty  profound. And  it's been effective so far. And we are looking to create another one. And the three programs we kind of we costed them out already.  The cost of the teacher on this would be about $43,000 half time BCB, which is a board certified behavior analysis. Half of that conservatively would be 3530 to $35,000.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Two paraprofessionals budgeted at 45,000 with benefits, taxes, retirement. It would be about 182,000 for the whole program. And I think what's interesting about this, and you're going to see

[R10623-73] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: create another one. And the three programs we kind of we costed them out already. The cost of the teacher on this would be about $43,000 half time BCB, which is a board certified behavior analysis. Half of that conservatively would be 3530 to $35,000.
TEXT> Two paraprofessionals budgeted at 45,000  with benefits,  taxes, retirement.  It would be about 182,000  for the whole program. And  I think what's interesting about this, and you're going to see the theme with all of the programs, and I can talk about this generally and answer questions as well. What we're trying to do is we know we have this population of students, we've already proven it, and we've already been very cost effective with the program we set up for this year that's been successful. We know that we're going to have as many students in future years. And, and we want to make sure that we can accommodate them in the least restrictive environment for Ida.  And we think that isn't to educate these students in their own neighborhoods. Okay. So that that's our goal. The other piece of this, and it is  we've already had some feedback on this with people who have been  other  area,  special ed directors in administrators have have heard about this program, and Mr. Nester has spoken about this and answered questions about the program, about having potential other students come to Claremont as tuition, paying tuition to come in and just estimating.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And prior to coming here as superintendent, I ran a special ed collaborative in Massachusetts. I'm very familiar with with creating programs like this in tuition structures and having revenue

[R10623-75] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: from other districts and we would have the potential to make about $500 in that one classroom. So it's just, you know, nothing is guaranteed, but just the fact that we would be educating our students at home and our students wouldn't be going out.
TEXT> As I'll show you in the next slide with the autism program, okay, the autism program we currently have right now, we have three students that we know in this year in this budget cycle year, not plan who probably there's a strong chance they might not finish the year with us. They might go to a specialized placement this year, going out the same type of specialized placements where these students are out,  the average about 90,000. The placement including transportation and things like that. So that's 270,000 that we think might go out before July 1st this year. We also know in a similar, similar program, similar programs at a distance of approximately 40 miles away, 40 or 50 miles away  that students attend. They may be able to come back to Claremont, okay, with the type of program there. Those three students costs. This is the actual number  of their 287 561. They may be able to come back to Claremont to be educated in their town with their friends and neighbors, and that's something we're very interested in doing now. Those are direct numbers. They're not. The other one was its proposed that we may have them. Those are the ones that we do have autism programing is is the  there's not a lot of autism programing  around okay in this area.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we would have a good chance at also having room for six other tuitions at $90,000. That could be the potential of 500 000 in addition to that. So

[R10623-85] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: after if there was overwhelming demand. And that's that's what we did in my prior experience. We, we we just do a break even analysis of what, what the room costs were, what the program costs were and then look and see what we had.
TEXT> So looking at a potentially six kids with a with a capacity of 12. Yes. If it built out.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's another hand.

[R10623-99] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that's for openers. And I guarantee you the program that we can put together that we have, there's a, you know, a track record of this. It's a it's a very substantial program as, as good as any in the state of New Hampshire. Yes.
TEXT> So this may be getting the cart way ahead of the horse. But so the programs we have right now are, are set up essentially for elementary age kids with behavioral issues. The one we have right now, eventually these are not going to be elementary aged kids with behavioral issues anymore.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's a great point.

[R10623-106] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the remain | 2019-11-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Few more questions.  As it currently stands, when we're sending these students out of district, how much control does does our special ed department have over the curriculum that those students  are enjoying?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The they they have some control. So we have a we're we're blessed with Dave Cochran, our placement coordinator, as an encyclopedic knowledge of every resource available for for in

[R10623-110] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Recently around here in as I mentioned before, my, my previous position, I this is what I did. So, so I, I'm, I'm confident we could build some, some amazing programs here.
TEXT> One of the things that I'm aware of is that,  often when kids are not a district placements,  the services provided exceed what is,  dictated in the IEP. And if the services delivered exceed the IEP, that money is not recoverable by Medicaid because they will only pay what's in the IEP. So,  that's where I thought you were going with that. And right, so if we have our own program,  we have much more control over the services aligning more  and not paying really essentially for  unneeded or UN documented services.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. I didn't yeah.

[R10623-112] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the remain | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. I didn't yeah.
TEXT> And I'm assuming that when we send children out of district that do we know the tuition prices or are we basically told what the tuition is going to be?
NEXT> Unidentified: No.

[R10623-125] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Can I let Carolyn jump in?' [18 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Can I like Carolyn jump in?
TEXT> I think there's a very big point. And you're saying it and everybody else is saying. But without saying the quality of life for that student is so far superior, by bringing him back home and letting him be in his home surroundings, the quality of life has got to, you know, resonate the rest of his life and how long we keep them until 21 years of age. So the social behaviors, everything involved.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I couldn't agree more.

[R10623-127] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the remain | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I couldn't agree more.
TEXT> I just one other thing that I. Would. That if I was a community member and you were, you'd be concerned about when I hear the word tuition or or talking about tuition in other students,  I just want to make sure that we're clear that the Claremont students would always take precedence over.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: My goodness.

[R10623-149] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: by creating smaller classes and pushing in a mental health counseling, as well as having a fixed block, having these students, wraparound services, okay, with the counseling and also mentorships in the community and have them go split days in evenings depending on their situation.
TEXT> There's much more success. We've had success with other programs at Stevens and in other communities and in other places doing this. But what I wanted to speak about two is the need for this. In  the chapter 402, where kids through the courts are placed, kids from our Ellie, a  local educational agency here in Claremont, are placed through the courts in kids who are very needy, who suffered our foster kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Or.

[R10623-151] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Or.
TEXT> Court involved kids or have trauma. Sometimes they're placed through the courts in settings, private settings outside  of Claremont. And in the last couple of years,  that's impacted us  about 180,000 last year and $280,000 a year before. Those are uninterrupted budget. So and we have to absorb that somehow. What I'm trying to get across is we have these things that we have to absorb, okay. We always have. And by creating being proactive and creating programs, okay, that we can not only we know that we have the populations of kids obviously,  that need those and deserve those, but we also want to have revenue coming in to offset some of these unknowns, just in a proactive, fiscally responsible manner. So that that that's that's my point with that. So and again the opportunity to tuition students in there, we would only do that if we could. But we can we can do that for  about 175,000 and all all of those. It's exactly why we're targeting the  the amount for the 650 is  right on that number. Yes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just wanted to speak to the concern that some concerns that I've heard to about how we can predict what our special need population will be in the future.

[R10623-152] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the remain | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to tuition students in there, we would only do that if we could. But we can we can do that for about 175,000 and all all of those. It's exactly why we're targeting the the amount for the 650 is right on that number. Yes.
TEXT> I just wanted to speak to the concern that some concerns that I've heard to about how we can predict what our special need population will be in the future. And if we put these programs in place that perhaps we won't need them in the future. I think it's it's good to note that, in 2007, we had two out of 1000 babies in the US for and drug addicted. And as of 2014, it's  out of 1000.  So it's pretty dramatic increase. And children that are born addicted to drugs have lifelong neurological and emotional behavioral issues. And so I think we as a district have to accept that we probably will be looking at a booming population instead of a decreasing population  of students coming in. I mean, I mean, what are we looking at, 5 or 6 year olds if they were born in 2014? So this isn't a problem that's going to get smaller. It's a problem that's probably going to get get bigger. And by looking at this in a proactive way, we could be really putting ourselves in a good position instead of.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I mean.

[R10623-162] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (Benware: 'Thank you. Donna, Jeff and  | 2019-11-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah we can.
TEXT> So last month a concern was raised regarding parents not being able to access registration when going on to the website, how it was very difficult for them to do that. So the next day when we got back, I got together with Jeff and Tammy, and we kind of went through and made some changes to the website that we just wanted to show you real quick. So now if you go up under where it says parent, so parent and then student registration. So now what we have done is we have put in here it says to register new student for Claremont or Unity and or to request a school tour, please contact your school. We've listed the names of the schools, the person that they can contact with their email address and phone numbers. So this way they can do that as well. And then when registering what to bring. So we gave them ideas of what they need to bring with them. And then we talked about the kindergarten registering for kindergarten. So we made that a lot more user friendly because I know there was some questions regarding how to how do people know who to call? It was Jeff and Tammy as well.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thank you. Donna, Jeff and Tammy. The only thing and I don't know if that's something that can be provided once they get registered or not, but the only other

[R10623-207] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this recording | 2019-11-20
PREV> Richard Seaman: received and the reason I wanted to bring this forward today and share it with the board is we have received inquiries from groups that are saying, is there a debt and we would like and make a contribution to that to help offset it.
TEXT> And I, of course, did not want to share to an external group before he shared to the board what the status of our debt situation was. But out of the goodness of only a couple inquiries so far, and I would guess when this is known from others, we should we will probably be receiving those that are willing to help offset some of what these debts are. We'll continue to try and do everything we can to get families to sign up. We'll continue to do everything we can to get those to return free and reduced applications.  And we should also take a look seriously at whether or not we have a,  a program like we have at the Bluff School, where the whole school is covered by free and reduced. Now, there are pros and cons of doing that for each one of our schools. That means no one has to pay, so those that are currently paying would not have to. So it you know, we may end up in effect losing some revenue by going that way. But we eliminate this this ongoing  challenge of  of providing meals to kids and then having to come back and say, we aren't being paid for them.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So I wanted to give the status of this. We can certainly spend more time on it, another meeting or whatever questions come along. But I want to do it

[R10623-253] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Indoor air.
TEXT> Quality staff ethics teacher performance and evaluation system reporting child reporting child abuse or neglect. And that's it.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I can share out just a little bit first just for people at home. So for the indoor air quality that was recommended by the state and we kind of

[R10623-254] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Benware: 'piggybacking on what Rebe | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Quality staff ethics teacher performance and evaluation system reporting child reporting child abuse or neglect. And that's it.
TEXT> I can share out just a little bit first just for people at home. So for the indoor air quality that was recommended by the state and we kind of adopted it because it's not going to hurt anything to not adopt it. The staff ethics one, if you go on our website under policies and you click on step ethics, we actually the policy doesn't even come up on the website and it's, we'll just stop there. So we,  adopted the language that the state puts forward for their policies. So, yeah. The teacher performance and evaluation system, we had little tidbits of that. And we know that that that happens in our district. But there's not been a policy that speaks specifically to it. So this is in addition to that. And I believe that most of this stuff is going on already anyway, so there's no major changes. You know, there's nothing new that's going to have to happen within the system reporting child abuse. There's a typo there. We should just separate that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R10623-256] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Benware: 'piggybacking on what Rebe | 2019-11-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Reporting child abuse or neglect.  We do have some of this information throughout some other policies, but it's not really there's nothing buttoned up or neat about it. So we decided to, we reviewed the states and we decided to go with the states because it has a lot of really great information in there, and it gives a little bit more information in regard to specific steps. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So have to make sure that once these are adopted, that the, school administrators, if there's anything substantive or aware so that they can let their nurses and such guidance

[R10623-258] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Benware: 'piggybacking on what Rebe | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So have to make sure that once these are adopted, that the, school administrators, if there's anything substantive or aware so that they can let their nurses and such guidance counselors know if there's some. We did difference.
TEXT> I should add, and they're not in here. But we did also review the sexual harassment policies as they relate to staff and staff and student and student. But we recognize that there's we don't have anything specific on staff, student, those types of situations. So we are going to be looking into that one further. And Donna's reached out to  School Board Association to gather information on that. So we want to pursue that a little bit further, to just to make sure that we're doing the best that we can for everyone. Okay. But these are them.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'd like to say thank you for doing this policy subcommittee, because I know it's a fair amount of time and sometimes it's a little bit dry. Very dry. That

[R10623-259] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: one further. And Donna's reached out to School Board Association to gather information on that. So we want to pursue that a little bit further, to just to make sure that we're doing the best that we can for everyone. Okay. But these are them.
TEXT> I'd like to say thank you for doing this policy subcommittee, because I know it's a fair amount of time and sometimes it's a little bit dry. Very dry. That being said, I've read these and I'd like to make a motion to move these to second read. Okay. So I'd like to move indoor air quality EBDGBEA which is Claremont School Board policy of staff ethics  Teacher Performance Evaluation system GCO and reporting child Abuse and neglect JLF to second degree second.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Further discussion.

[R10623-274] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yes. And we were going to have the nurses involved to come and speak to the, the, the whole situation. Okay, okay.
TEXT> I can say that at the, at the bluff. Anyway, there's still diligently sending home letters when there's been a head head lice account in the classroom alerting people to be  proactive with checking their children and things. So,
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I.

[R10623-277] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Personally find to. Be very helpful.
TEXT> It's very helpful. Yeah. So pick through my kid like a monkey and everything's great.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So go to other business. I just just briefly want to talk for a second. Sneak out.

[R10623-282] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah.
TEXT> Susan. She has to. What she's going to end up having to do, to facilitate this is probably it's going to take the form of a bit of triage at first and finding students that are, to be honest, expensive  and reaching out to physicians or other  allied health professionals that can sign off  on a he's back  on a treatment plan.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, it's a little bit more.

[R10623-286] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Right. And they need to be very aware that there's a huge difference between a medical model and an educational model. And I think that that's where a lot of the fear comes up.
TEXT> Well, I think Mrs. Duty has a solution to that where she is, there's a form that exists where there's a whole bunch of things that you can check to what the student might need, and she's thinking about coming up with some very I don't want to use the redacted, but the,  simplified version that applies just to that student. What's in the IEP that would go to the physician to sign off on. So she's going to be very, very busy. So  don't, you know, don't give her any extra work to do.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So Ben, are you guys still billing? Like, are you still putting you're still inputting the information into the system in case it goes retroactive so that you can go.

[R10623-292] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Ben Nester: Only reimbursement.
TEXT> So you know, I don't know what the, what the breakdown is in related services that students receive.  In Claremont, the the real stickler is mental health services because that is, that's a little bit different. Where are we? There's the distinction between a DOE certification, Department of Education certification, and then a professional group certification. There was a, there was a who was the woman from? There was a lady there who was quite knowledgeable yesterday. She's she wasn't one of them. One of the MSP people. She was local and she was talking about the real challenge.  Yeah. Is the fact that we have so many little licensure groups in New Hampshire.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Right.

[R10623-299] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. Right. So now there's whole groups of people where they've reneged on that and said that just because they they have that certification, they're no longer allowed to correct. Right.
TEXT> So and so so the real obstacle is are these groups coming to consensus on what this, what those requirements would be. And that's that's the real obstacle. So it's very interesting issue. I think that the the takeaway from it is I think there are going to be some cases, particularly when the students are medically compromised in some way, that are going to be pretty easy to to do. I think if someone has cystic fibrosis or they're or, you know, wheelchair bound, they have muscular dystrophy or something, that's medical. That's pretty, pretty easy because you're the doctor is going to be aware and sign off on that. So I don't think we're going to get as much money as we have in the past. I don't know how we can, but I don't know at this point in time.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Why would you say that?

[R10623-318] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-11-20
PREV> Ben Nester: Is that not a lot. Not a lot. Some. But but not not as substantial as, say, the paraprofessionals that we that we seek reimbursement for or the speed services. Those are those are much larger chunks of, of potential reimbursement.
TEXT> So those people are with kids that are medically fragile, but also behavioral, behaviorally challenged. Yes. With diagnosed, would a doctor diagnose?
NEXT> Ben Nester: No, not necessarily not. It's you know, it's based on what the student needs. And then 90, 90% of the cases, you know, it's a medically necessary service. And so

[R10623-320] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Benware: 'piggybacking on what Rebe | 2019-11-20
PREV> Ben Nester: No, not necessarily not. It's you know, it's based on what the student needs. And then 90, 90% of the cases, you know, it's a medically necessary service. And so we get reimbursement for that. Yeah. Yeah.
TEXT> You have to go through a checklist to qualify for  that. There's specific state requirements in order to be able to have a rehab assistant attached to a student.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Okay.

[R10623-345] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Jason' [22], [302], [ | 2019-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: say tomorrow night, Stevens High School auditorium, 630. The checklist people will be there. So if you're a registered voter, make sure you bring your ID because they check your ID when you come in because it is a just like checking into an election.
TEXT> Are we offering childcare in the past for these meetings? We have, and I wish I'd have brought this up earlier. But we had they had offered  they had a room for people who wanted to come to the meeting to put their kids in, and there was a couple of people in there that kind of watched them while the meeting went on. You guys are looking at me like, no. So, okay, I just thought I'd ask for future volunteering. I'm going to be for future, though you may want to consider it because it was somewhat useful. And it gets people out who might not otherwise be able to come out. I wish I'd have said this two weeks ago. Sorry.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'll bring them to the movie theater.

[R10623-347] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Can I let Carolyn jump in?' [18 | 2019-11-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'll bring them to the movie theater.
TEXT> Wouldn't there be some students available that would get community service?
NEXT> Jason Benware: It was, you know who did it last time was, the people that worked at one for all were the ones who were offering it last time. Okay, so.

[R10623-349] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - follows Benware's 'Rob, I w | 2019-11-20
PREV> Jason Benware: It was, you know who did it last time was, the people that worked at one for all were the ones who were offering it last time. Okay, so.
TEXT> I did that with my kids last time. Yes, tremendously.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we'll have a the seating will be, if residents will because of the, the voting nature of it, nonresidents such as, our administrators, some of our administrators would sit

[R10624-4] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: to explain, discuss, debate, and take action on a special education expendable trust fund. Prior to reviewing and discussing the ward ethnical. Excuse me, the moderator recognizes Superintendent Tempesta, who will explain the actions of have taken place with. Yes to tonight's meeting, Mr. Tempesta.
TEXT> Everyone can hear me, right? Just the first announced is. If anyone is a registered  voter, please make sure that you're on the right section. That you're over here. The left section. As this market is only for not voting. You can see what's going on in the amazing things that are going on that would like to continue in a proactive way. And the ones that I presented last night to the board. Some of those health placements and I know, I mean between 90,000 and over $100,000 for each placement. Three students came back this year. I showed that clip because you could see how engaged the students were, how they are part of,  particularly in that place that was in our class, where they are in the classrooms with their friends, with their neighbors, and they are engaged just like every other kid. Sometimes, if not that,  out of district placements aren't perfective placements for some students, but it is much, much more local control that we build our own program. We have local control for the future of the program. We also have the ability to control the curriculum and to give the students exactly what they need. The program that I presented last night that I could talk to, and you can see it online as well, like the lease it on early this morning, is we're looking to have an additional classroom F  in the pride program.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We already have identified students that that will come back. We also have three students that we know right now and who have are in the spectrum disorder category that

[R10624-5] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: exactly what they need. The program that I presented last night that I could talk to, and you can see it online as well, like the lease it on early this morning, is we're looking to have an additional classroom F in the pride program.
TEXT> We already have identified students that that will come back. We also have three students that we know right now and who have are in the spectrum disorder category that we're pretty sure by the end of the year, they are going to be out of place, out of district to the tune of  $90,000 plus for each placement. That's a known $270,000. That will be the district with kids who will be looking at a one hour commute each way.  In order to be educated with a program that we can easily, easily create within our district. And what we're trying to do with this,  with this money for that program, is create the program so that we can keep Claremont kids in Claremont and educate them in the least restrictive environment possible, as is part of Ida. Now, we know that there are already three that are going out, but we also have three identified who are in the early years as well, in third between third and sixth grade, who could come back. And with the track record where the board just presented  Mr. Nestor put a program together, the pride program last year, and that that program has already brought three kids back before halfway through the year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we have an immediate track record of success and investment, and we know that we can also have success with the autism program. If the 270 don't go out,

[R10624-6] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: between third and sixth grade, who could come back. And with the track record where the board just presented Mr. Nestor put a program together, the pride program last year, and that that program has already brought three kids back before halfway through the year.
TEXT> So we have an immediate track record of success and investment, and we know that we can also  have success with the autism program. If the 270 don't go out, 270,000, those three students are now placed and we bring the other three students back, similar to what's already happened. That would be 540 coming back for an alpha of approximately 280. Now, the biggest thing about this that I really want to stress to everyone is the long term benefit of this. All right. So once you create a program like this, you keep Claremont students in Claremont. You also have the capacity that possible. And I first I want to stress and put at ease the notion that we would be making this to attract other kids from other, other places. We would have the option to have students come in to wishing students as well, at up to $90,000  as soon as well to the autism program. So in that one program, we would have the potential to make over $1 million a year coming in for revenue for an outlet of $280,000. All right. So that is why we're doing this.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we also have an alternative school at Stevens that we that we feel that we can keep you in the program that we had recently. And it got cut.

[R10624-19] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 1, speaks against; contacted state representati | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: grant reductions. We heard complaints of the, quote, crippling effect of the educational tax rates, unquote. And I can't argue with that. Anyway, back what you said, because of these reductions on municipalities, the grant restores all the lost money to reduce the tax burden.
TEXT> Objections to giving back the money were that the municipalities and school districts could just spend it. It would not go for tax reduction for the taxpayers.  It will probably make it impossible to get a tax relief for Claremont in the future, regardless of who controls the legislature. So I know we already spend over 5000 per student average, more  than the state of New Hampshire spending their students. They have a budget. We need all the legal requirements. I would hate to see you approve this bond and jeopardize any future tax relief from the state. We have tax relief coming this year and next year after that. It would be an award. If you take it, spend it on. Other than tax relief,  I'd like to see the taxpayers in this city get a break on the taxes for a change. And maybe when you come up with the school budget in a few months,  February and March, I believe, is the election in March  or the vote rather in March. Put that in as a warrant in that.  So it would be part of the budget and go through that way rather than taking it from the tax relief. So we never get it again. I'm sorry.  I'm. Anyone wishing to speak in favor. Okay.
NEXT> Jason Benware: My name is. Jason Ben where I live in Ward one. So having been somebody who's gone down and testified in front of the Senate and the House and several

[R10624-36] Unidentified | School District Moderator (presides; not named on the recording) | 2019-11-21
PREV> Deb: solutions to this funding, because it will never happen here locally, we just don't have enough money to spend. But if you elect people to the state of New Hampshire and governors and legislators that will really look at fixing this issue long term, that's.
TEXT> Can I please ask  if you want to speak, if you raise your hand? As you can see, I'm having a problem with Steven tonight. Anyone wishing to speak against the amendment. In the spirit of it is another story. My general observation most funding is that once you leave the hands of the taxpayers, it is gone. The  total amount to alleviate the taxes is approximately 1.2 million. And I believe that will repeat in the next year.  And it's kind of devious to say,  well, we're not going to raise taxes, we're going to use this money and the  taxes will not go up. The purpose of the money is to lower the taxes.  I don't doubt the sincerity of the people trying to help children and need the help, but I think that is something best done through the state legislature and prosecutor mandates given by the federal government. There's a there's a point of no return. There's just so many taxpayers in Claremont. And I believe how many students?
NEXT> Unidentified: 1700 and total expense is far in excess of what it is in the other parts of the state. So I think the burden falls on the part of the

[R10624-47] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: Exact results.
TEXT> So in terms of keeping the students in the district,  we know that you have some right now that would be going out into the district. We would be able to keep those in the district. So that's one  thing that would happen. The way the budgeting works is if we create, we would be educating kids in the district.  But if we have extra money, it's all the same pie, right? So if the money that we are already spending  in in the ordinance, an example just to cut to the chase, we already are spending 293 for these three students that we've identified who  we've already talked to, there's a good chance that they would come back just like what already happened.  So I'm telling you, we have success already on the fledgling program that was just adopted with the elderly  of of the budget last year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We already have three kids. That that's a fact. That's happened now. That's a positive thing. That's one we know that the ones that and that was that was one

[R10624-51] Unidentified | School District Moderator (presides; not named on the recording) | 2019-11-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: you have that in hard work and the energy that we have very confident we will have successfully. So there's no guarantees in anything in life. But but I'm very confident about this program, as confident as anything that I've built in my 27 years.
TEXT> Anyone wishing to speak in favor of yes, I know, but yes. Yay! I have David to work for you. I guess I just had a couple of questions. This first one would be our. Our tax rate is affected by the costs that is generated by our citizens. Correct? Yes. And the, some kids away from our school system. To to get special types of education. Creates an increased drain  on that school budget. Right. Correct. I spent a lot of people among those connections to this. It's been a few years since I was a system, so I'm sure it was still the same. There was one. I ask, this is because if you if we create this program or funds program, ultimately we can reduce the tax burden through the back door because the factor could potentially increase. But more kids coming in with special use. Correct?  Correct. Okay. I support it. My wife is a school teacher that she teaches first grade. And she's been there for  15 years now. And, you know, sometimes  she she stopped moving. And  so I hear the stories. I know that these teachers are dealing with an extreme burden with increased, special needs issues, especially these, in other words, learning issues, behavioral issues, all those eventually turn into interference with the teacher's ability to actually teach children dealing with the cable networks, having to have spend one on one time with children.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think it's important that we give them all the tools that they need to make sure that our children are educated and yes, those other children that have problems

[R10638-30] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kasey Burke' [51], 'Cassie' [68 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Jason Benware: You have Ward three.
TEXT> Okay, so I'm Kasey Burke, and I'm Ward three.  I wanted to take a moment because I have three children who are special needs.  I have struggled personally with the special ed department, the chairs, everybody who's been in these meetings. And my concern is this is impacting our special needs children, but we're not finding it relevant enough to make sure that the special ed specifically is being informed of these things. I only found out today that there was going to be another vote on the 12th, and it blew my mind. So with finding out that information, then I went on What's Up Claremont, and found a post that it was going to be spoken about tonight. Literally. That's why I came in a couple moments later, because I literally had just seen this. When it's going to impact certain family members, I mean, you'll send out a letter for an activity, a football game, something like that. But we're not notifying the people. It's impacting. The most importantly, I mean. Again, I know it's not a personal thing, but I have a son who is being considered out of district right now. So this totally impacts my child 100%. And when I can when I have to medicate my son to send him out of district, to put him in transportation, when we have the money right here to do a program that would stop that.
NEXT> Cassie Burke: And I don't even know about it, that just blows my mind. I literally was doing a entry meeting, and I said to the principal that I was so happy

[R10638-34] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kasey Burke' [51], 'Cassie' [68 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: You do have to be a registered voter to vote. Okay? So there are there are restrictions on who can can vote.
TEXT> Which thank you for pointing that out, because my daughter, she's a Stevens High School student, but she's also 18, so she's legally able to vote. So, you know, that's something that we're going to make sure that we get taken care of immediately. So her voice can be heard because she is a special ed student. She has an IEP in our school system, and she has her own struggles. That's going on, and I won't go into details on that, but it's just I have three children and all three of them have i.e. you know, and. To to be told that there's no place for my son. He's he's too high functioning because he's autistic. He's too high functioning for the, the I hate to bring you in the work life skills program, but he's not equivalent to be in the regular Ed, so there's really no place for him, you know? And the fact is, is that he's going to go to high school next year. And I've gone and I've toured out of district schools, and they aren't going to meet the needs either. They're either low, low functioning, or they're not even what he needs. So it's like, I'm torn. So where does my son go from here? So I have to vote in here. And I have to say, you know.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Yes, I'd like to make a comment. It would be critical for you. And thank you for speaking tonight. Point well taken. Thank you. It would be critical for you

[R10638-48] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kasey Burke' [51], 'Cassie' [68 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You know.
TEXT> The same when you have an autistic kid. I have to be his voice because nobody else can be.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I know, I know what you're saying. Trust me.

[R10638-86] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-12-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I'll second.
TEXT> Discussion on those minutes. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Okay. Student rep report. Mr. Sullivan.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I did the second one, too.

[R10638-91] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative, Stevens High School senior (ASR 'Tala Sullivan | 2019-12-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: bunch of winners of that. I didn't list all the names. Because there was a ton of him. And the principal said that he's having student sign up for the March 21st eight. The two at Stevens High School, New Hampshire State student voice conference.
TEXT> At his as well for Stevens High School on December 7th. Come on out to Stevens High School for a basketball game of the police versus the Claremont Fire. It's going to be a game that would keep you on your toes. It is 7 to 9. 3714 Stevens will host a craft fair from 9 to 3 with over 30 vendors, a 5050 raffle, a patron and Santa will be there. Pictures with Santa Claus $5. Do your Christmas list. Ready for Santa? It's free entry. The Chef's Holiday concert is December 16th from 715 to 915. This is a date change. Come on out and support the music program and meet the new music director as well. But Dial Stevens, host the Stephen Star hosted a friend's Devon on Tuesday. The 26th attendance of the event was through the roof. There was 45 kids signed up and probably about 60 kids showed up.  As well as the doubts, there was plenty of food for everyone and even some leftovers. And also, on the Tuesday before vacation, I, Stevens did a surprise visit from big Red, who is the master on Tuesday with everyone, and he was showing off his new look big Red Greta students as they grew in the busses.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: He also stared some students and then came back and walked around doing flats to different classrooms. He danced and he even wrote on some right boards and bed. Read

[R10638-118] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: got this award. But it's a great honor for this woman, and I hope everybody in the community can see that. We got some new staff. Kendall Duffy, she is running our the our adult education coordinator. And then Jessica, who is our administrative assistant.
TEXT> She came over from bluff and both have been fabulous  additions to the tech center. Jessica really picked up and is making things happen many times. She's already thinking about stuff before I even have a chance to chat with her about it. Kendall is doing some great outreach. We partnered with Ruger, we're partnering with the county. We're developing these adult ed programs outside of high set. We have about 78 participants in our program for the high set or the high school diploma through the state. So it's been very positive from the tech side. It's been very busy with community projects. This is one that came up two city benches that were really dilapidated, bad wood. So we replaced the wood. We painted it, brushed it and cleaned it up really nice. The finished product is sitting outside our lab right now waiting for the city to pick it up. I bet it stays there until spring, but that's the kind of way with a grant that the preschool got, we are building a ramp and a little, maybe it's a porch or style, but something for Ada accessible students with a rail around it.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We're waiting on some additional lumber. We would have had it done by now, but there's some special boarding we wanted to use that was rot resistant, and that is

[R10638-119] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: I bet it stays there until spring, but that's the kind of way with a grant that the preschool got, we are building a ramp and a little, maybe it's a porch or style, but something for Ada accessible students with a rail around it.
TEXT> We're waiting on some additional lumber. We would have had it done by now, but there's some special boarding we wanted to use that was rot resistant, and  that is underway. And that's by the preschool so that we can have more students get outside. This was one of the projects we worked on. This is preferred Building systems came out to help us. We created a  Zeebo with our jail, our inmate program over the summer. When we built it in, we realized, oh my gosh, this thing is huge.  And so they had to come out and help us with it. So another great partnership we had with a business in the community. Those are the picnic tables that are inmates built, and they are now at Arrowhead. So whatever they built, we gave out to the community. They built three really nice picnic tables. And we thought and we checked in with the city and Arrowhead really could use them for their events. And this is one of the sheds they built last year, some really nice quality. And this is mostly the students building this. And that's what's interesting is that the students, with limited guidance from the instructor, are taking these projects on and really making things happen.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: What you'll see here is a couple of that's our plumbing program on the left hand side. That's Mr. Craig, our instructor there. He is working with Jarret who's a

[R10638-127] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: To.
TEXT> To, to make happen. All right. So we have three. We have five and a half I call them our CTE programs accounting building construction, culinary arts, machine tool,  plumbing HVAC. And then we have a pre-engineering program that we work at. Mr. Pope teaches with our machine tool program. And he has an engineering one and two. And that where the first they learn about bridges and engineering. And the second program is more robotics heavy, which is quite an interesting course. The photos you see is culinary. One of the things that we haven't done the while Mr. Gallo took the accounting class to the Future Business Leaders of America conference, which was here in the state, the statewide conference. So he was able to take a group down there. And really, I'm not I don't recall if they competed or just met with other groups that were learning about accounting. So our enrollment, which is a been a blessing for us. We've grown. In 1819 last year we had 58 rolled in CTE programs. Usually when there's a change in leadership and change in instructors, we see a loss of students.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I've talked to my other CTE directors, and they see that often there's some alignment with the previous instructors and when they retire, we were so we were starting around

[R10638-129] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: taking more than one course here. And one of the things we want to see happen is a lot of our students are telling us, hey, when I take a course there, when I'm in one of our programs, I just want to stay here.
TEXT> And so we're working on a tech English course right now. We're working with the high school  with Miss Berry. I've had her working on that with me. And so they're developing that course right now. I was able to use some Perkins funds to pay a teacher extra to make that happen. And this will be where students learn about work orders. They learn to write up an incident report. They learn the things that they would use on the job, essentially. So that has been a positive piece. And that's hopefully where we'll get more students involved and stay here. Some of the things we're thinking about doing, and it  wouldn't cost us any money, it could actually create efficiencies for us, is our accounting program is a two year program. And Nashua, their CTE center, does it in one year. And I went down on a Nashua visit to do some accreditation work that they had with the CTE programs in the state. And I actually reviewed their accounting program, and it was really impressed that they could finish it in one year. It's tied to Southern New Hampshire University and students get six credits.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Now, what we're finding is if we look at our class now, we've got, I think 6 or 7 students in that course right now, and a number of them

[R10638-131] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: program for one year. One of the things that the industry in the insurance industry is saying, hey, we're all gray hairs. We need people, young people, thinking about financial services and working in the financial services industry, not selling insurance, but maybe processing insurance.
TEXT> Maybe it's working at banks talking about loans. Right now there's also a big push 20 I think it's 20 States have certified that you have to have a personal finance course before you graduate from high school. Now we teach the personal finance course because that's what Mr. Gal is good at. But that is a high school course and not a CTE course for us. So these are some things that we're proposing now. Finance isn't pretty. It's not that much fun. But honestly there's great work in it. And if you start it here and you got to work for a bank, banks are paying for your education. So we are  always an alternative path to college. If you want to avoid student loans, you could work your way right through college by taking a course through us first. So one of the things that's I need to make sure that we understand is that the building used by the state is specifically a citation for CTE spaces.  And this is RSA 188 E to colon 311. I suppose upon completion, the constructor renovated facility shall become the property of the school district or public academy for the use by the Career Technical Education Center exclusively.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So every year when I talk to the state, we've gotten a couple of letters about encroachment, about how the preschool is kind of taking over areas where we've lost

[R10638-134] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: on board to help us make that happen. One of the things I'm going to do this spring is do a go visit NEM, take any eligible senior that wants to go check it out and go out and see what they do out there.
TEXT> They're willing to play pizza for us and just make a morning of it as a nice field trip. So that is the plan that we're going to do as we look down renovation roads. We know we need electricians, right? We know we need diesel mechanics. And if we can do diesel mechanics, small engine repair is a possibility. All good skills. And one of the things I really want to emphasize is that CTE classes, because of the nature of their business, I can only fit about 16 students in our lab for construction carpentry. More than that, it's just too many kids in there. We're already exceeding our. We got 20 something students in our culinary program and we only have really spots for 16. But Donna was able and Mr. Tempesta to help me get another person in there so we can manage that better. So thanks for that support. But but those are the kinds we want to think about. Do we how do we if we're putting both classes, our CTE level one and two together because of the numbers, then we're really maxing out our space.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So we're not, our full I think we're like 95% full depending on the class that we look at. And sometimes we do have some attrition where people drop out

[R10638-135] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: better. So thanks for that support. But but those are the kinds we want to think about. Do we how do we if we're putting both classes, our CTE level one and two together because of the numbers, then we're really maxing out our space.
TEXT> So we're not,  our full I think we're like 95% full depending on the class that we look at. And sometimes we do have some attrition where people drop out after they started. As I talked about pre-college, we're talking about White Mountains Community College culinary program. We have an articulation agreement. We still have some River Valley Community College running start classes for accounting and machine tool. Maine Community Colleges offers us one credit, and if you go by during the day, you can see in our lab there's students made all these saw horses and that was their program. And so they get one college credit for completing that, successfully completing it. And then Keene State University, we signed articulation agreement this year with them where any CTE student that completes and we can show that they completed two years automatically gets eight credit hours when they show up at Keene State. So these are some good things that are happening. And we're trying to tell students, hey, you don't have to go to college right away. Or if you want to go part time, you're going to get some credits. If you decide to go to some of these places. Now, there's rules in regards to some of these. And the our school counselors are efficient and we've shared those that we've talked to that so that students can really get an understanding of what's going on.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Finally, we got the partnership agreement. This expires in 2022. I know that there's discussions about this amongst ourselves. We've had, you know, the guarantee six seats for each school

[R10638-137] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: this dad, we had our region ten meeting, and this dad says, you know, I went through the auto mechanics program, I went to Stevens High School and I was going to Newport. And it's the same problem 20 years ago as it is today.
TEXT> Transportation, scheduling. The two districts are two different districts. You know, they're not on the same schedule. So when there is a professional development day over there, we're in session. So it just creates a little bit of a  in a.  But anyway I just thought I'd share that. So it makes it a little more difficult. Proposed renovation plan. So the couple plans that have been talked about, we've been pitched that we, you know, we can do our individual renovations, which is we've talked about before, where usually the state provides 75% of the funding for that, and then 25% comes from the local community. Recently, we were pitched the idea of building a new tech center, but one tech center  at possibly, not sure if this is public information or not, but I guess it's now that we would look at a site in the area to include maybe River Valley Community College as a site there because they have a bunch of land, which is interesting because we can create some partnerships, right, with the community college where students could walk out with a two year degree. But that thought was, is that if that was to be built, it might be using charter school monies, which is kind of a contentious issue. So and then the other one would be to consider a space, a state sponsor, technical high school. Those are things that we're talking about.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I do think that we with the renovations coming up, I think our building personally is in better shape than I see at Newport. But I don't think we could

[R10638-138] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: if that was to be built, it might be using charter school monies, which is kind of a contentious issue. So and then the other one would be to consider a space, a state sponsor, technical high school. Those are things that we're talking about.
TEXT> I do think that we with the renovations coming up, I think our building personally is in better shape than I see at Newport.  But I don't think we could absorb their programs. We wouldn't have the space completely to do that. However, I think that somewhere down the road, you know, where things are getting tired here. Our machines are starting to break this week. Our freezer went out right after, right before Thanksgiving, and the culinary just kaput. And then they went up to fix it. And I found out today they hobbled pieces together from the past. That and that's why I broke and and so it's an ongoing. So I said let's fix it right the first time so we don't have this problem again with that the fridge went out. So we're seeing failures but we're 20 plus years old. You know the stuff is being used. It's getting highly used by students. So that's going to wear things down. It's just a matter of time.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And then let's see here. So what's happening now with Perkins, just to let you know that this is going to be something that's going out. We have to do

[R10638-140] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: we do with spending of the funds for Perkins this year was a little bit more loose because this was requirement for this next year. But next year, everything we get for Perkins needs to be spent on driving it towards the local needs assessment.
TEXT> And then finally, this last couple slides here this summer. You know, I drive down River road and I see all these help wanted signs. I know you're seeing them too. And I really want to make these things better for our community. Can an went out and hired a bunch of folks, but they weren't from here and they didn't stay. They stay a year or two and then they want to leave. But if we can get our local folks kids that grew up here. They'll stay because this is their community and this is their home. And this is just one of many that I saw up and down the road from Airgas,  from Jewel trucking, all those, there. But and that's all I have as to what we're doing at the tech center.  Do we have any questions you'd like to address at this point, or, Mr.. Ben, we're.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Not really a question. More of a comment, really happy and impressed with how you're going forward with this. Pretty encouraged to see that, you've implemented some programs that are

[R10638-158] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes short interjections from several board me | 2019-12-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: That's right.
TEXT> I  know that students in the. Class are. Doing it at Woodlawn for the labs. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So Alex, one in my mind that's conspicuous by its absence is a computer repair networking. Yes. And we used to have that program here at one time. And so

[R10638-160] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2019-12-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So Alex, one in my mind that's conspicuous by its absence is a computer repair networking. Yes. And we used to have that program here at one time. And so I'm just curious.
TEXT> So my my personal opinion on that is that I know River Valley spent a lot of money in Perkins money to really develop their computer labs to do that. And they are not seeing the enrollment that they thought they would. So that's kind of turned me off. So when I think about computer networking, when we educate a student for that, will they stay in the area? Are there a lot of jobs open in the region, in the region for computer networking? So I kind of tie our region money to what kind of region jobs are open. And I know we have Red River and Red River runs a nice summer program for students that have an interest in that too. So I don't know if I really wanted to get into the battle to compete with them right now, but I think after this comprehensive local needs assessment, once we get the data in and it says, absolutely, you should have a computer networking program, I'll be right here pitching it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Certainly there pervasive.

[R10638-172] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kasey Burke' [51], 'Cassie' [68 | 2019-12-04
PREV> Cassie Burke: what we're doing for the special ed kids to kind of show what they can accomplish in high school as well, because I think right now we're on a barrier point where we I really like all those programs sounded great, and they really did.
TEXT> But I'm sitting there and I'm thinking to myself, I have three children, and none of them would use any of those programs or qualify for any of those programs.  So I just want that to be said. Like I just just to bring another thing to light, that's all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R10638-218] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - Towle refers to 'as Rob sai | 2019-12-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Was it there? No, no.
TEXT> I'll be honest with you. And I know it's not going to hit the. Whole population, but I know I'm pretty certain that every person in this town, Almost every person in this town, knows somebody who has a kid who goes to school. And the robocall is really quite easy. I mean, I believe a couple years ago. I got one just about. Every day from our school principal. So I know it's easy.  So just, just put it in the robocall, and I guarantee you that will hit so many people. It's hard not to know at that point if you're able to do it. I think that's a really good tool we have. We've already got to set up. I would rather saturate the market and have people come complain that we're telling them too much than continue hearing these complaints, and we're not hearing enough.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And upset. That's very easy to do. We can do that sometimes. My experience has been that it can be diminishing returns or all of a sudden people get conditions

[R10638-364] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: District in the state.
TEXT> And probably all around us and where this law exists about, you know, feeding every kid, it's the same thing. It's just how they approach it. And some places probably just absorb it. And being that we have an outside food service company, it's very glaringly clear where it exists. However, I think it's a problem, but it's not a problem. That's, that's that is unique to our town. We just happen to give it the most precedent of anywhere possible.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We started talking about it first.

[R10638-371] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Heather' [513] before | 2019-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Well. Yes.
TEXT> I think you could increase the percentage of of of students.
NEXT> Unidentified: At one time.

[R10638-390] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-12-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So are you talking no outsource food service group? Like there's always things that.
TEXT> It's not the outsourced food service group that if we had it internally, we would still feed the child. We would still have to come up with a way to pay for the meal. So it's not it's not them. It's how do we pay? How do we come up with it? Do we build it into the budget?
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't know.

[R10639-82] Michael Petrin | SAU 6 Board Chair; Claremont School Board member | 2019-12-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> The money the money we got is not it's unanticipated. So it's not  it's that's why we're we're trying to do the public hearing and the special meeting. It's not something that goes on a ballot and is voted on a ballot like a normal election. That doesn't happen. That's not just not the way it works. It's not, you know, when we talk about increasing or this going to special ed is not new special ed, it's bringing the special ed that's being shipped out our maybe sometimes more than an hour away, kids that are traveling further out. It's not new special Ed. It's bringing that special ed back home where they need to be.
NEXT> Unidentified: Special ed. Right.

[R10639-124] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed 'Richard' [243], [395]; start | 2019-12-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Receive the tuition billing and all that.
TEXT> Tuition billing is really done by a combination of Sharon, the accounting manager position and also historically has been done by  Sherry, who does PR, who does payroll and others. So it's a combination of positions. We also have some of that work done by Leslie in special education when we're billing back what are called excess costs. So if we have a child that comes to our area as a special ed student, we not only collect the tuition, we also collect any of the other services that we need to provide as a part of their IEP.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can I ask one more, please? Who does Medicaid reimbursements for?

[R10639-223] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (addressed 'Richard' [243], [395]; start | 2019-12-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well what is what's the position we added? Oh at the level.
TEXT> It's the same two that are there right now. It's basically been what we all know. And Leslie Peabody who is his assistant. The Leslie position is, I think, at a higher cost than what it was historically or probably what it was when we were looking at the budget. I also, having worked with her at student conservation, her ability to do work is.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But her pay, her pay. I looked at it before, it's like $40,000, but the increase is 27,004.

[R10639-333] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair; SAU 6 Board member | 2019-12-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: part of the team, and they're absolutely critical to boards, is to be communicating with them through the year. If there's been changes, if there's things they're seeing, we can actually have an effect before the audit comes in and says, you did it wrong.
TEXT> Sounds like No Child Left Behind.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yeah, exactly. You know, you report on a two years later and there's not much.

[R10649-0] Unidentified | Unidentified - brief interjection or setup chatter | 2019-12-12
PREV> 
TEXT> Hello. I put these on now. Nicole. Over here is the second. Good evening. I'd like to call to order and welcome you to the December 12th special District meeting. Just a little bit of housekeeping in the middle section. And the section here are for registered voters. The section over here is for non registered voters. If you're a registered voter and wish to vote, please sit over in these two sections. Another housekeeping  issue is that we have childcare right through those doors and across the hall. It's being offered by Stevens High School students that are doing it as part of their community service program. Okay. I'd like to ask the school board member, Rebecca Zullo, to lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Thank you. Mrs.. For those that are just arriving, the middle section and the section to my right are for registered voters, and the section to my left is for non registered voters. I'd like to now ask Michael Tempesta to introduce the administrative staff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'd like to introduce to my immediate left assistant superintendent, Donna Donna magoon. Business administrator Richard Seaman. Director of special education Ben Nester, director of technology Jeff Small. And our

[R10649-11] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-12
PREV> Michael Tempesta: students for the longest length of time, meaning those kids in the autistic population in the pride program, they're in elementary school. And if we keep them in district longer, we save more. What I really want to emphasize, and we're just talking we're here.
TEXT> We understand the gravity of the tax situation  and how, and we're being very respectful of how how we use taxpayer  money for this program. If we if we don't do this, we know that we're going to we know we're going to lose those tuitions. It's more important for us. Also, in the original point, we're talking about,  you know, a balance sheet right now, but the focus is that we're educating Claremont students in Claremont and the leash restrictive environment in their hometowns, in their hometown, in their neighborhoods, in their communities, in that is why we are in this business. Okay. So that is the least restrictive environment, the best education possible. And students aren't traveling upwards of an hour just each way every day when they could be  right around the corner here, being educated in a program that we feel very confident we have experience with, we've already costed out. We have  companies that we're going to broker with. We already have tours set up  a committee in place to look at that. We are to parent volunteers who are going to help us  in this process. So we're very, very transparent with that, and we're really confident that we can best serve  the students of Claremont in this manner. So that's my presentation I have I don't know if I can answer questions if there are any questions. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: I heard.

[R10649-25] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, speaks against (ASR 'wide man. More'; name n | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: project. Mr. president, understand that being a business person, if I went to a bank and asked about 650,000 with no business plan, explaining exactly what the money would to be used for not being told to leave until I had a proper business plan.
TEXT> In this case, we, the taxpayers, are the bank. We are being asked to fund this project, which is only a proposal  without proper documentation. This money is being returned to the taxpayers as tax relief. If we don't use it for this purpose, the state may decide. We don't really appreciate that decision to help the taxpayer. The Claremont, any  problem? We were told that there are at least three students who will be returning to Claremont to be taught here. It was mentioned that  Claremont normally pays $90,000 per student for their education.  In that case, there should be at least $270,000 in the present budget, which could be used to stop this project  after it has proven successful. Then, the school board can approach the taxpayers for additional funds to expand the program. At this point, we, the taxpayers, should vote no on this warrant because the school board has not provided us with proper information to make an educated decision. And after they, the superintendent or Mr. Sprague explained the about $700,000 that can be. I'm sorry time. Okay. Madam. Through there. Requested to vote by Britain ballot this evening. The only vote is being allowed to vote. In order to do that, you have to have presented the request in writing to me  with five registered voters signatures prior to opening of the discussion on the ballot. Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak in favor? Carol. Is it Jason? Yes. Okay. Hello?
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'm Jason. Ben. I'm Ward one. So I've heard this notion of this money being sent back is strictly tax relief now. Several times. Yet I've not really seen it

[R10649-35] Cassie Burke | Public commenter, Ward 3, parent (ASR 'Kathy Burke for three'; the sam | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: Anyone wishing to speak against the program? The one article. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the article. In front. Along.
TEXT> Kathy Burke for three. And I had a whole speech set up, and I'm going to tell you, I'm not even going to read it. So I'm a parent. Of a child care, and I say, you six and I'm going to try and say this without getting motion. There is no place here for my son. None. He has to be placed out of district because there is no place for him. I've been told that straight to my face and meetings. My son asks me to my face and quotations. So. Because I'm autistic, I have to go to a different school and not give it my friends that I've grown up with. Yes, the minimum is $90,000 a year. That's not the max. It is going to cost even more than that to transport my son to a different school. I have friends who have children with disabilities, and yes,  we are those parents who sit there and go, why is it my kid being equal as everybody else? So yeah, you can we can all sit here. And  I didn't pay taxes just like anybody else here. I own my own home, I pay the taxes, I get it, but how can I look at my son and say, sorry, dude, I get it, you're autistic.  But guess what? The taxpayers wanted money more than your education. And you know what?
NEXT> Cassie Burke: My son starts. My son plays football. Most autistic kids can't play sports. My son plays football. He has played since third grade. He has friends that he has grown

[R10649-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: we need $6 million to keep this program going because we're growing so big. We have so many students in. Somebody answer that question for me. Thank you. I'm not sure if it would be frank or the superintendent would like to address that question.
TEXT> With the superintendent. Sure. So in terms in terms. Of needing to do a build out or get a building or things like that, we're confident that we can, the programs that we have outlined that are also  online and have been since the the entire business plan has been online for for weeks now.  So, with the budget with an emphasis  on, on keeping kids local, we have enough space within elementary classrooms to start. We also have a few other  spaces that are, within the district that we could use so that that's where we are with that if we ever needed to grow so fast. That we had all of a sudden a wave. And again, I want to emphasize that we're trying to focus on there's the opportunity. If you read the business plan that has been online, it is online, right? Right now. We don't our priority is Claremont students. We would have the opportunity to tuition kids from other programs okay  in as well. But we just have  to take care of Claremont students right away into so that the the money stays in there. That's that's where we are. So and that's what we're focused on. I have had experience building programs like this in my prior and prior job.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I have personal experience with it being the parent of a disabled son, and I'm confident that we can really build a strong program, particularly because of the amazing staff

[R10649-39] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-12-12
PREV> Michael Tempesta: just have to take care of Claremont students right away into so that the the money stays in there. That's that's where we are. So and that's what we're focused on. I have had experience building programs like this in my prior and prior job.
TEXT> I have personal experience with it being the parent of a disabled son,  and I'm confident that we can really build a strong program, particularly because of the amazing staff that we already have. Okay. We will we will succeed with this and best serve the students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, Mister Tempesta. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of the article or anyone having a question? Yeah. The state doesn't. Here's our view. Every time there's a budget

[R10649-41] Unidentified | Public commenter speaking in favor, before 'Thank you Tracy' (name not | 2019-12-12
PREV> Unidentified: people have have created and it's already being successful and funded. Instead of wanting to stick $650,000 new pocket one year and go for the rest of years playing, paying outrageous out of district placements and not being fair, the kids then vote against it.
TEXT> But I don't see. It's no wonder to me. You have to vote about your taxes going down the road. Thank you Tracy. Question question question. Vocational education is. There's nothing at the school, at the high school for him to be able to go out to the community and be able to learn things. So why why was it when programs were brought about that we could money used for? Why wasn't there something like that? For the high school students? We got kids sitting down in life skills who were what? What do they do? How did they get out in the community? How do they get jobs? Why wasn't why can't we get that here?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can get that here.

[R10649-45] Unidentified | Public commenter asking about high school vocational and life-skills p | 2019-12-12
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the the time and how quickly we had to act once this money was freed up, this unanticipated money, we put this together as soon as we could, brought it to the board. In our budget meeting. And we did as fast as we could.
TEXT> There's all program for kids who risk for dropout, right? I mean,  that's what I've been. Told that. What's your name? You're at the school is going down.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There's that got cut.

[R10649-51] Unidentified | Board member or administrator answering commenter on budget pressures  | 2019-12-12
PREV> Tom: So we're not going to see if I can just like the rest of the time. But you're trying to solve it. Okay. Yes. Thank you.
TEXT> Can I answer or just give an answer for us? Mr.. So and answer to that. When we go into a budget season, we're usually looking at a deficit going in  with a fair amount of expenses at the school district level that go up every year. Health insurance goes up every year.  So there's,  fixed cost increases such as retirements and things like that. None of those things go down. So as we go into those things to be level funded, we typically have to reduce something somewhere. And that's what's happening over the last several years. So if we are able to save our district $600,000 by not sending kids out of district, it's likely it gets eaten up with all those increases and you might not see a tax increase. That's a win. When we see that the expenses continually go up, and it's not because.
NEXT> Tom: I'm going to go up, this is going to go down because we're saving so much money.

[R10675-56] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-01-02
PREV> Unidentified: That was the first day back today.
TEXT> It was amazingly quiet. I think I think the students were very excited about the two day week, and I assumed the staff was as well. But, I in  getting a, I get out to a couple of a couple of schools today and, it was eerily quiet at the middle school. And.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's a good thing.

[R10683-12] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (first name on record; surname pe | 2020-01-08
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for the ExxonMobil education grant to Stevens High School. And that was a $500 grant. And the same acceptance of ExxonMobil to Disney as well, for the same amount, I believe. Yeah. Please, Melissa, we should have got you two. Yeah. Also for five, 500.
TEXT> Exxon Mobil grants. We've actually been the recipient for I think this is our third or fourth year.  Stevens High School has been as well. The whole purpose of that grant is to enhance our math and science programs in some manner. So, for example, last year at Disney, we used ours to,  purchase all the equipment for outside Ed backpacks. So that would have all the supply students would need so that they could be outside doing some learning.  In the past, we've also used it for some science supplies as well as some of the equipment for our outdoor classroom. I don't know how Stevens is spending it. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Thank you. So our last donation of a very large donation was for $8,500 from the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation for Music and voice programs, the David Brooks Music Funds.

[R10683-42] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member; moves agenda amendment;  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Now we need to review the agenda. Are there any amendments that need to be made?
TEXT> Rob can make an amendment to move the student rep report. Before the nonpublic.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Yeah.

[R10683-46] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member; moves agenda amendment;  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Jason Benware: I move that we accept the agenda as amended. I second that. I moved he seconded.
TEXT> Moving the student representatives report prior to the nonpublic session.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: All in favor? All in favor?

[R10683-54] Beth Bonneville | Kindergarten teacher, Disnard Elementary School | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Hi.
TEXT> So as of 2018. This is the new play based kindergarten law. So I've kind of just bolded the the gist of what the new law is. So it's basically that educators shall create a learning environment that facilitates high quality, child directed experiences based on early childhood best teaching practices, and should also provide unstructured time as well.  For child discovering.
NEXT> Unidentified: So attending a few professional development opportunities across the state. One of the big takeaways for me is that there are three types of play. One of them being free

[R10683-55] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Beth Bonneville: bolded the the gist of what the new law is. So it's basically that educators shall create a learning environment that facilitates high quality, child directed experiences based on early childhood best teaching practices, and should also provide unstructured time as well. For child discovering.
TEXT> So attending a few professional development opportunities across the state. One of the big takeaways for me is that there are three types of play. One of them being free play, which is, just as it sounds, free play. Exploration chances to explore with their peers,  problem solve, do things kind of on their own, given opportunities to use the materials given to them. To just play and learn on their own. Guided teacher guided would be opportunities where it might even start as free play. But then as the teacher comes in, very intentionally uses those opportunities to teach something. So if they're playing in the block area, they're using blocks, they build a shape, allow you made a square. Could you add something to make that a rectangle so they don't even know it? But you're really teaching through those opportunities. And the third one would be teacher directed. So there's a very specific outcome that the teacher would have. Again, children typically would think they're playing. And of course they are. But it's very intentional. There's a plan. Things are structured in such a way that we know what the outcome would be while they're playing.
NEXT> Unidentified: So those are the three types of play, and it was nice to see that it's not all new. Some of these things we're actually doing, we've been doing that's

[R10683-59] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: exploring what the numbers look like. These are these are the wiki sticks to help letter formations. So instead of just like pen to paper, you know, they're actually getting the formation of the letters through gross motor skills other than just fine motor skills.
TEXT> Just getting to play with paint, exploring that, the sensory of it, all of that fun stuff. It started as free play and then she started to, you know, spell her own name and,  you know, exploring with the letters.  This is, you know, was a free play activity and kids just decided they knew how to make some letters and they wanted to spell certain words. This is a to, you know, so we're learning we're trying to figure out how to spell. This is another sensory table that has letters and it's very soapy and watery. Again exploring with the manipulatives. You know, something different to get that that literacy based in there.  And again more of the same. There's whiteboards provided for writing opportunities other than again, just pencil to paper. Is just some reading, some nice. Is this a free play activity as well that they. Started that way? And it's at the carpet. They're sitting at the table reading from a piece of paper. They're engaged with each other. Learning social and social skills is a huge piece that comes in play based. It's not just, you know, math and reading and writing. It's not any of that curriculum. It's the social skills that, you know, can get lost in the shuffle of curriculum.
NEXT> Unidentified: And this was actually with upper grades, so I don't remember which grade this was. But we have buddies that come down to our classroom. We're in kindergarten, so we

[R10683-62] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Beth Bonneville: Much more of the visual discrimination between all of their letters and the, the focus of that week. Yeah.
TEXT> This is a stacking you know, stacking the number. So representing  a number to a quantity of, of how much it is, which for kids can be something that's a little challenging. So to put it in a game where you roll a dice and you have to count how many you are and then stack it, find the number. You know, they thought they were playing, they thought it was just a fun little game, but they were learning their numbers and 1 to 1 correspondence, number line matching  you know or this is measuring. They have if you can kind of see there's unit fixed cubes. So you know completely child directed just like oh let's see what we can do with the fixed cubes. And then oh we can measure stuff with the unification of how many fixed cubes is this. Right. And then they were actually saying, well let's line it up to the number line. Well where does the number nine come. Well how many cubes was it to get to number nine. So it turned into many more things than it started. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: And this is accounting a roll you know. So you roll the dice you count getting that 1 to 1 correspondence. I mean again, you just think you're rolling a

[R10683-64] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: you know, just like, you know, touch a little. So they're getting a lot out of it. Another sensory table using, you know, multiple you know. Lives to try and get them to, you know, figure out how water works, how does it move through.
TEXT> Areas where letter bubbles that they actually had to look for? Yep. Finding the right key to open something. So using some math skills, you know, counting goes dots. Finding the number that you know corresponds with that key. Again more fine motor skills. Putting a key in a lock and knowing how to turn it open it. Pattern blocks are a huge you can do so much with pattern blocks. Every morning my kids are playing with pattern blocks and always coming up with different designs. They're learning patterns. They're learning, you know, they create people out of them. You know, just learning so many different things. And that's completely child directed. I will just give them pattern blocks and let them explore. We've made snowflakes. We've made long pattern chains and learning our colors, everything. It's just incorporated  a connects activity. I'm assuming this also started as free play. And then just kind of turned into a invention of some sort that they, you know, were trying to decide how to use it. But that exploratory learning is huge at this age for them to really understand what it is they're learning, rather than the teacher saying, you know, oh, we're going to build an invention, you know, make a square. It has four sides. They're figuring it out what a square is, what a shape looks like.
NEXT> Unidentified: And to go along with that, that was right after we talked about measurements. So we're talking about shorter longer short as long as those are hard terms for them.

[R10683-66] Beth Bonneville | Kindergarten teacher, Disnard Elementary School | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: or those some more numbers counting 1 to 1 correspondence. Understanding. You know how that again, one, I don't know if anyone's familiar. We said it a couple of times, but that's like one, two, three. You know, everything has has a number to it.
TEXT> And I mean for this, this was in my room. So the way that I kind of structure my sensory tables is they're very open ended. So whether it's literacy or math, they put a lot of numbers, a lot of different, manipulatives for them to use, lots of other things, like there's a lot of  shovels and sand. So it's really open ended. So they decide what they want to do with them. There's still numbers involved. There's still letters involved so that they're able to kind of discovery based, learn as they go.  And what I've noticed to is because my class is very mixed, they they help each other out a lot. So, you know, children that are having a harder time learning their numbers and learning their letters, other children are helping them as well. And it's more of a community based learning as well as specially in the sensory table.
NEXT> Unidentified: Again, social skills are huge. That come into play is that they're learning how to interact with one another in a friendly, positive manner rather than pushing them, you know,

[R10683-67] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Beth Bonneville: each other out a lot. So, you know, children that are having a harder time learning their numbers and learning their letters, other children are helping them as well. And it's more of a community based learning as well as specially in the sensory table.
TEXT> Again, social skills are huge. That come into play is that they're learning how to  interact with one another in a friendly,  positive manner rather than pushing them, you know, pushing kids to get what they want, you know, that kind of thing that you sort of see. But building this community of play, you know, they have more fun learning, so they have more fun with each other and they're not so stressed out. And getting upset with one another when a material isn't available or something they don't understand something that they're much more open to helping each other out. Again. Pattern blocks. It's great building basket. Built a basket with it. Blocks are huge. You can do so much with blocks. I you know, we've seen kids write their names, you know, using the shapes of the blocks. And those are always fun when you have those curved letters and they try and find the straight ones that can make it work and, you know, using it to build, you know, measuring this looks almost looks like a ladder that they've tried to construct.  So just like, you know, even I'm trying to kind of figure out what it is they're doing because it's just, they're, they're discovering it.
NEXT> Beth Bonneville: And I think a lot of the play based learning to is, you know, having conversations and having them explain their thinking as well. So I mean, we can be

[R10683-69] Unidentified | Unidentified - Disnard kindergarten teacher (Shelby Klink or Allie How | 2020-01-08
PREV> Beth Bonneville: can be sitting here and kind of, you know, piecing together what they're doing, but until you're really conversing with them and having them explain their thought process, explain their planning process, it's really remarkable, I think, yeah, to really, you know, be present for,
TEXT> Just and that's helpful that, you know, you can go that's just, that's helpful in general of explaining your thinking. You know, that's not a skill that is often  taught, you know, very explicitly. So to have kids explain,  like, oh, what did you make how did you know to make that and getting them to look within themselves to, you know, explain it is is huge because a lot of kids don't often get that opportunity. You know, if a teacher is just telling them what they need to learn and what they learn, you know, kids were like, oh, my teacher told me this, but, you know, for them to explore it on their own makes them feel more responsible for their learning.
NEXT> Beth Bonneville: So we took time to kind of talk to our kids about what they like about play based learning. Of course, for most of my kids, this is their first

[R10683-71] Beth Bonneville | Kindergarten teacher, Disnard Elementary School | 2020-01-08
PREV> Beth Bonneville: doing. I've noticed a big change from this year to last year that now that we're much more play based, that it's much more engaging for our kids. It's not, you know, as Beth and Ali been saying, pencil to paper, you know, doing worksheets.
TEXT> My background is in early childhood education and my master's is in curriculum instruction. And I did my thesis in play based learning and project based learning at this age. So really, you know, sitting down and having children at this age doing worksheets, it's not conducive to their learning. So when they are able to have choice and opportunities to make learning their own, that's when school becomes more meaningful to them and just, you know, creates and fosters a more positive, relationship with school. Early on,  one of my other students said that I like math centers because we get to be silly with numbers. That's what she, you know, interprets her math centers as because it's not just, you know, this is number one, right? Number one, everybody right now, one, it's really just they're making it their own. And yes, we are still learning numbers. We are still meeting the Common Core Standards for kindergarten. We're just going about it, as the state of New Hampshire has put it in different ways and channeling it in different ways, where they're still meeting the same standards. But we're our practices shaped with the play based law.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I think kind of going off of what Beth said, this is nothing new. This is kind of what was happening, you know, 30 years ago that there was,

[R10683-81] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> I think it's great. I think that anything that engages kids more is, typically better. However, I'd also be interested two years down the road to see how, a couple years worth of entering first graders tend to assess as they start off versus how they were, and see a comparison between the two. Because statistics tend to tell a pretty good story. So my expectation is we should see,  more competent first graders going in.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Carolyn.

[R10683-96] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (presiding in the chair's absence) | 2020-01-08
PREV> Melissa Lewis: They're connecting more to skills now than I've ever seen in kindergartners. And so they're able more to articulate that. So again, every day is a new day. And they continue to try new things. But we're seeing a lot of great differences for kiddos.
TEXT> So I wanted my comment is as an occupational therapist this is my soapbox. And we get on it all the time in my district. In regard to how the expectations of kindergarten are more like first grade and second grade and so on. So, seeing, you know, we do play based therapy all the time. So seeing play based kindergarten is really music to my ears. And I think that when the state first changed to this, there was a lot of hysteria in regard to people not really understanding the play concept.  And why would you send your kids to school to play? Well, I think this is fantastic because most kids don't even have an opportunity to play anymore because both parents are working whatever their situation is. And it's no secret that that all children learn through play. So, this is fantastic. I love it.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Each other. Right.

[R10683-104] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (first name on record; surname pe | 2020-01-08
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Good.
TEXT> So today was our was our launch of the winter program at the elementary level. I think we sent kiddos off to 13 different activities, and none of that would have been possible. First of all, without the support of you all, last year when a group of parents came forward and we so appreciate their efforts and helping us rejuvenate this. Claremont did have a winter program many, many years ago. So excited to bring it back. I cannot tell you the excited staff members and students I saw today. It was amazing. So just a huge shout out to staff, students, families and most importantly, the community partners that we were working with to have kids at makerspace. Nima Jenkins, Arrowhead had many. I think we sent almost 200 students to Arrowhead in the community center today.  So  absolutely enormous thanks to them and to our staff, because without our staff taking kids, exploring with kids, facilitating these things, it wouldn't be possible. So a great example in my mind of what a community does when they come together for kids. So Sofia.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Sofia talked about it for literally almost a half an hour when she got home. It's the most you talked to me all year, so it's a great.

[R10683-112] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Tyler';  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: was eight to new today. We had a we talked about different things. So we talked about the student, the, the student depression is on the rise. These are the statistics showing how many people, have had a depressive episode in the last 12 months.
TEXT> This was taken.  I'm not sure what year, but the source is from the psychology.  And it shows a recent spike in many ages. And this is due to social media use and phone use.  And I want to add that the majority of that is from, cyberbullying  online and from,  students not having self-confidence in themselves when they post a picture. You want to get a hundred lights, but you only get two.  So that has a huge impact on that.  So. They also found through studies which was received from  all of the citations in the bottom. But this was achieved through the more kids used the social media, the more they had, sleep trouble. Actually, they had us raise our hands today. And the amount of of students who went to bed at after midnight last night because of their phone. Everybody raised their hand. I mean, even I almost didn't go to bed at night because of it, but, so,  so it's definitely been causing some sleep trouble was supposed to eight hours of sleep. Most of us only did it for hours because we're on our phones at night before we go to bed. When we get to bed while still on our phones.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: And we also talked about what, what the difference of reality is to what somebody posted on Instagram. People tend to, so we found this out today that people went.

[R10683-113] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Tyler';  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: so it's definitely been causing some sleep trouble was supposed to eight hours of sleep. Most of us only did it for hours because we're on our phones at night before we go to bed. When we get to bed while still on our phones.
TEXT> And we also talked about what, what the difference of reality is to what somebody posted on Instagram. People tend to, so we found this out today that people went. Private jets just for a photo shoot to make their lifestyle look more than what they are.  To help boost their self-esteem. We had to do a assignment where we had to read a scenario. The scenario we read was about, a kid being off of a football team. For vaping. And we had to come up with what we would do in that situation and how we would resolve it. Through positive support  and through, telling them what to do. It's a little hard to explain.  So we talked about the benefits of using social media.  It's easier to connect, it's supportive, it's networking, and it's branding.  And we also talked about the statistics of what teens use.  They use Instagram, Snapchat and Facebook, and they also use TikTok, Twitter and YouTube.  Often. And this is our last activity. So we had to create two posters.  One poster was a mental health post. The other poster was a social media post. So the social media post was,  we were supporting. We did a we do an Instagram post with a unified basketball advertisement on it.  Because that's not a well attended dame schools across the state. A mental health one.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: We did a tree with a bunch of inspiring quotes about it with the captions, and this showed that we, this showed how we can use social media in a

[R10683-114] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (chair: 'Tyler';  | 2020-01-08
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: poster was a social media post. So the social media post was, we were supporting. We did a we do an Instagram post with a unified basketball advertisement on it. Because that's not a well attended dame schools across the state. A mental health one.
TEXT> We did a tree with a bunch of inspiring quotes about it with the captions, and this showed that we, this showed how we can use social media in a positive way to do outreach. As well as use it to help support our fellow peers with their things. There was a group that did it for an athlete of the week. I know that, Stevens. We have friends of Rachel, and we do a  student of the week. Or we try to. Doesn't always happen. And then we finished out all day with a wrap up. We, And the wrap up consisted of everything I just told you.  And more. So that was the workshop that we attended. I attended with two other students today.  And we had a great time. And we will also. And Mouch, for students, I would be attending the New Hampshire Student Leadership Summit, which happened to the White Mountain was, they are for typically for genius, two boys and two girls who go,  who are part of the South team to attend that overnight trip. Right before the holiday break, we had an ugly sweater contest at Stevens,  and it was won by student Rebecca Neal, and student council raised money all week, for which a minute for which a minister should get pied in the face. Surprisingly, this was won by Assistant Principal Misty pray with a chocolate pie. However, because during the pie in the face  was on Bailey's bucket list.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Both she and Mr. Bailey also get paid in the face with ripped cream pies. It was actually pretty funny to watch. Stevens, students will be engaged in the finals

