[R16070-549] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: No. Right.
TEXT> So student recognition.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Recognition was one of the goals. And as I was reading through this, the the piece that always comes back to me when I think about communication, we've had reports

[R16070-553] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Recognition.
TEXT> Student recognition. I mean, I guess that's sort of your job too, but I guess it's a different recognition than we might give.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Right?

[R16070-567] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: Almost like a publicist.
TEXT> A publicist, somebody who's responsible for pushing the positive stuff and the growth that's happening in our district.  But I'm afraid that if we start, like codifying the school board, being responsible for that kind of recognition, I think to Arlene's point, we could choose to once a year. I think one of our retreat goals was to identify students  that had maximum growth in each school or some target audience. That's specific to the that the school board specifically finds, like, we want to really hone in on growth. We want to change the achievement mindset  from, you know, a static grade to dynamic learning. So perhaps that's something we as a board can do as as one kind of recognition point. But I think.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Like he is of service for teachers. Right. Certificates for like you were saying, he is of service for teachers that they're publicly. They can come if they want. You

[R16070-569] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: for teachers. Right. Certificates for like you were saying, he is of service for teachers that they're publicly. They can come if they want. You can give it to them here. So things like that I think goes a long way for students and staff.
TEXT> And. As a board, we used to do that in. Fall Mountain. We'd give certificates to students that are student of the month or teams that had won a championship, or you know what I mean, or the honor society.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Things we didn't select.

[R16070-614] Michael Petrin | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (returned as a write-in at the March 202 | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: bolts to so I think the finance committee may be able to once we flush out what the budget is, come up with some dates. But I just wanted to hear if there was a willingness of the board to make. That happen. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> I think,  offering childcare, getting some high school students to volunteer to watch.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah.

[R16070-619] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's a really good idea. And second item on other business brought to me by Mr. Pratt, and he'll speak to that about, I'll let you speak to that.
TEXT> So, I think you're there very few times, you know, that we have the opportunity when we know, to be honest, you know, teachers. And in Paris, they're they're fried right now. They're, you know, as you know, you know, I get around a lot. I talk,  I talk to, you know, teachers. I talked to principals. I'm in the buildings and stuff is that there's a lot going on now, whether it was through Maple, through the hard work of the teachers of the high school, would, you know, getting settled into a new schedule and stuff, the lack of substitutes alone. Teachers are taken on, you know, giving up time just so they can cover for their colleagues so kids will get an education that's so, so,  originally,  so on November 25th, we have the open house and the parent conferences on the 25th. That's right before Thanksgiving break. And,  and I believe that's a no student day, right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And no.

[R16070-621] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: And no.
TEXT> No student day was worked in the calendar this year. And it's typical a lot of districts are going to that. And then we had planned on, you know, throwing some professional development on the 26th, which is a no student day.  I would like to  offer out for the board to consider, to give me the permission to. Recognize the teachers for all the hard work they're doing and have them have the 26th off.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Instead of a PDA.

[R16070-640] Unidentified | DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR, NOT NAMED ON THE RECORDING - this voice report | 2024-10-16
PREV> Mike Koski: of substitutes who have actually had an assignment within the last, you know, well, since it started school year. So if we have more robust procedures and more documents and better warm boarding experience, we think that will increase the engagement for substitutes as well.
TEXT> The other. Thing is. Mr. Kosky. And I had a meeting this morning with the principals, and right now, Disney has a. Full time sub that is there every day. Right. And so I think during the budget season, we will be looking for subs to be a permanent sub in all the buildings because they're busy all the time. And having that person is good. If someone's gone for two hours, you have a sub for two hours, you don't have to worry about it and there's always someone they can sub for a for a pair, for a teacher, for whatever. So that is one thing that they have asked that we bring forward, possibly within the budget. I've worked in districts where I've had a permanent sub in my building and always busy. They're always busy. And if the. Day comes when everybody's present,  they are assisting teachers with giving the assessments and working with students. The other experience I have is a. Tiered payment for subs. If it works so many days consecutively, the pay that they receive is bumped up. Oh, I like that. And so it encourages people to stay with us when we need, especially when we needed a long term person. Okay. It was a reinforcement for them.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Thank you.

[R16142-317] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 - the second cluster the diarizer gives  | 2024-11-14
PREV> Unidentified: And yeah.
TEXT> It would affect unity students who go to Stevens High School. So just to consider it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah.

[R16155-15] Michelle Herrington | Self-identifies at [002]: 'I'm Michelle Harrington, the assistant dire | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: I'm going to keep that in mind.
TEXT> Yeah. So I just kind of have hard copies. Because I'm just not able to get into the system yet. So I think the big things are,  is, just we're just kind of looking at an increase just in a few line items, you know, in each program. Just, just the way that I look at it is we're trying to increase student enrollment in the classes. So when we're looking at the carpentry department, we're looking at, you know, six kids in the level two right now. And we're hoping to kind of fill it with 12. They're going to need more supplies, more materials.  And with the cost of materials it can change almost day by day. So on one of the line items is a $500.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's budgets to know. Okay. I'm sorry.

[R16155-20] Michelle Herrington | Self-identifies at [002]: 'I'm Michelle Harrington, the assistant dire | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: I was I was just trying to figure out if I was supposed to be following.
TEXT> All right, I just have this part. So in the building instruction, repair and maintenance.  That's at 500 now. I was looking to increase it to 1000. In the building. Construction supplies. It's at 8500.  Increase it to 9000. And then in the building construction repair equipment, it's at 1200. I was looking to  increase it to 1500. Just with the price of everything. And,  tools break. The Sanders. We were talking.  I was talking to Mike today. He said 20 kids a day are using the Sanders. So they're going to be used. You know, you're going to have to replace them more than your normal sander at home. So that's with the construction,  construction program.  Plumbing. It was just a $500 increase on the supply line. It was 1550. And now  we would like 16,000. And then,  there is, a mistake. It says that, Oh, hold on. I'll come back for that one. And then  with the plumbing repair, just the the cost of the equipment, it's 500. Increase it to 700. And then that's all in plumbing and then machine tooling. The repair. Maintenance. I haven't been able to talk to,  we're trying to collaborate with both the previous,  person who's on leave right now and with,  the famous Scott Pope.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So we're trying to make sure, you know, that we have, both sides are being heard, you know, so we want to just make sure we get those numbers. Right.

[R16155-38] Michelle Herrington | Self-identifies at [002]: 'I'm Michelle Harrington, the assistant dire | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: They do so much under one program.
TEXT> I don't know, and their program is not full. So when we look at welding, you know, there's a waitlist and we could mostly justify, hey, let's open another program. It's not the case right now, but when I look at the need, even just in our district alone, with the amount of paras, with the amount of stuff, right,  I would really still like to pursue that, to even say, let's give it a try for like a two year, like a two year trial to get kids enrolled, to get kids kind of there. I would love to do the the para. I would like to even push it a little farther to do the Praxis. Yeah. Because what better way when you're graduating high school and you know that stuff?  Because once you're in college, that stuff goes away and you forget about it. So that's kind of,  where I'm trying to get to. But there are  so many hurdles.  Where the region ten agreement. We can't compete. You know, and to have a.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Lot of by.

[R16155-75] Candace Crawford | Candace Crawford's FIRST cluster (she later moves to Speaker 10 and th | 2024-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: For for the high school, summer school, it's about $30,000 to run the program, similar to how it's been run. And it hasn't been run with a lot of fat on it.
TEXT> Or how many students?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It honestly depends.

[R16155-80] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah. Right.
TEXT> Yeah. I would have to,  I'd have to look at that. And I think one of the things is you you definitely have more than 35 eligible. The question.  The question is like, who's going to come and do it?  Do you know, I could see some kids not interested in it, and we can. I'm very interested in making sure that everybody eligible goes through it. Okay. So we can definitely do a lot more reaching out to families and getting a commitment there. And also, I think being flexible with families when they're on vacation and things like that is helpful.  So, so that's kind of a that that's a pretty big increase there.  We're going to start our  new process next year. I then  calling around to a couple of friends of mine that are principals. I called a mister town the other day.  And,  you know, asking, you know, how many times how much money. Are you roughly putting into that? And that first year is about $10,000. Okay. So that's something that your.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: First year.

[R16155-91] Frank Sprague | Frank Sprague's SECOND cluster, running in parallel with Speaker 1 (th | 2024-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: Well, just the high school level. Okay. So I'm just looking at that. It was. I think we were at two point. 3 million.
TEXT> How many kids. Is that?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I believe I had to count was 30. I think it was 30 kids.

[R16155-92] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: How many kids. Is that?
TEXT> I believe I had to count was 30. I think it was 30 kids.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Yeah. The high. School has. A total. Of. 30 students. And out of district placement, at the tune of 3.35 million.

[R16155-93] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: I believe I had to count was 30. I think it was 30 kids.
TEXT> Yeah. The high. School has. A total. Of. 30 students. And out of district placement, at the tune of 3.35 million.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Okay. So looking at the what I have here in the tuition, private, is that was budgeted is 2.3 million. And then previously the before that the year before that

[R16155-94] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mike McCosker: Yeah. The high. School has. A total. Of. 30 students. And out of district placement, at the tune of 3.35 million.
TEXT> Okay. So looking at the what I have here in the tuition, private,  is that was budgeted is 2.3 million. And then previously the before that the year before that was 1.5 and then 1.4. And then so I'm really kind of looking at, who's coming up from middle school,  who might be graduating.  I know that we were having who do I have in the school that I'm worried about that might go out? I will say that I had there are  a few that I know that were able to be successful at  the Academy, which definitely would have gone out and. Did good. And in fact, I  had a meeting last week about a kid that is in the academy that might go out, and we said we found something that might actually keep him in the academy longer, and be successful there.  So, so that that program in itself is, I think is paying off, maybe not in pulling kids out  back, but I know it stopped several kids from going out. That's kind of the big overview.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I have one question about the education company. So this is essentially I want to make sure I'm, I'm understanding this correctly, a consultation company that comes in and helps

[R16155-95] Heather Whitney | Chair of the Claremont School Board, named by Sprague at [000] ('To my | 2024-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: him in the academy longer, and be successful there. So, so that that program in itself is, I think is paying off, maybe not in pulling kids out back, but I know it stopped several kids from going out. That's kind of the big overview.
TEXT> I have one question about the education company. So this is  essentially I want to make sure I'm, I'm understanding this correctly, a consultation company that comes in and helps the teachers learn basic classroom management behaviors and how to streamline managing those behaviors to increase efficiency and also increase, the ability for kids to  access learning in the classroom.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Yes, and more so than that, because it's not just it's not just the teaching. The teachers are part of it, but it's also, helping create a system and teaching

[R16155-108] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: This will come under special. Ed budget. Yeah. And wondering. What falls under Ida. And.
TEXT> Like that. And again, I'm just putting out again needs. Right. I'm looking at this at my building level and I see that need. And I know that there's personnel there that could I think, easily fit that role  and frankly, help the students help the administration in two buildings and increase our standing with the state with our compliance issues.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Last question. Then we're going to move on to Frank. I'll be quiet, I promise. Don't you have a special ed coordinator at the high.

[R16155-118] Frank Romeo | Self-identifies at [004] as 'Frank Miller, principal, Claremont Middle | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: How are the class sizes.
TEXT> So class sizes, we were able to get really creative. What we decided to do is add an extra block. So we shorten the class length. So we're down to 46, which gives us more opportunities to have some classes to have some sections. So we're in the 24  range depending some classes are a little smaller where  the eighth grade class I think is 108 kids. However the sixth grade class might be 119 or something along those.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So as a teacher, how many kids a day am I seeing?

[R16155-119] Frank Sprague | Frank Sprague's SECOND cluster, running in parallel with Speaker 1 (th | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: more opportunities to have some classes to have some sections. So we're in the 24 range depending some classes are a little smaller where the eighth grade class I think is 108 kids. However the sixth grade class might be 119 or something along those.
TEXT> So as a teacher, how many kids a day am I seeing?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Are you will see over four. You can see 24, 60, 80 kids. Plus you'll have a saw group, which is a sort of a callback in which you do

[R16155-136] Frank Romeo | Self-identifies at [004] as 'Frank Miller, principal, Claremont Middle | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: So that wouldn't be in a position. Say that. Again, it wouldn't be adding a position. No thank you.
TEXT> I think the other things doctor talked about is just sort of fun stuff. Just wondering, for us, summer school,  is another big thing. Yeah. One thing we're fortunate about is that we were awarded the gear up programing  and that as a program within New Hampshire State in which they follow students for  starting in seventh and eighth grade all the way up through high school. And it started more of this track of college and career readiness. But now it's looking into, working with tech centers and vocational. So it's not just your path to college,  but it's more starting at the seventh and eighth grade level. They help with summer programing, which is really nice, but it's limited. So it's not it's more academic than it is some of the other programs that we have. So we still would need to add some funding for that. But we're lucky enough that we're going to have gear up for the next few years. Other things are. The biggest thing after that is a venting system. If you guys remember, we were awarded the Boston Bruins Red River grant and we had the kiln and stuff like that. How we have our rooms positioned, we do need a venting,  a ventilation system and one of those downstairs rooms, and we price it out somewhere between 7 to 10,000.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Seven and ten.

[R16155-178] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> Already. So they put together a wonderful proposal about tearing that  and each of the schools to really just have a robust book purchase that will also they've been great about kind of calling the libraries for things that are very outdated, so on and so forth. And so for Disney,  that would be,  just under $6,000, which is still, again, lower than, like I said, when I first came in, what we were doing every year for books. So I would love for some consideration there. Things that are still kind of to be determined is what summer programing will look like for the elementary schools without Esser funding, and that's something that the three of us are working closely with Mr. Kosky on to see what that will entail. So whether or not that then appears in our budget is to be determined what that will look like. You see some minor increases in the lines.  For example, in special ed, you know, as certain kids join us and have certain needs, we want to make sure that as those needs progress or decrease or require different furniture, for example, that we have the funds to be able to adapt to that. One thing that you will see go down is there's a we all have an instructional, a regular ed instructional textbook line that last year we put funds in at the building level in working with Mary and Mike.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: It really does. It's most appropriate at a district line for the three of us. However, we we all kept a little bit in there to order. For example, if

[R16155-192] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Could I ask you if you were given a social worker for each school? Is there a position you could reduce to half time that was current, that was assuming those duties or was over compensating for those duties? To somehow make.
TEXT> This off the cuff answer is no. Okay. Solely because the the way that that is being accomplished right now is through myself, through my student service coordinator and through  Courtney Porter, who is the high school social worker who's essentially coming and helping us out as much as she can. And just the social, emotional, mental health support that is needed at that level. Again, it's different than what a school counselor can provide  is significant. So not in my budget, but always a plea.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I want to go back to your your request for a p d line and, what pops into my head always again, as I when Mr. Harrington was talking about

[R16155-198] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: People that need.
TEXT> Yeah, I, I'm going to I'm going to say five for this reason. They either are working within for that alternative program or that  coming in under that venue, because maybe they're still waiting for their out-of-state license to carry over. Yeah. So that's one level. Another is their new to teaching, but under regular certification.  And one in general that has worked on a true alternative because they, they  just didn't complete their student teaching.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[R16155-202] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: questioning, but I want the public to hear. When we when we bring things forward, what, what some of the underlying reasons are for that. And I think it's important for people to when we refer people back to the tapes as to why we.
TEXT> And I think that's, that's really important. More and more. Right. Is the cost of higher ed increases as well to candidates.  Some schools are very good at saying if you end up with a position that we can work with that district, have you go with an alternative certification rate or  certificate, alternative certification program, it saves that candidate a lot of money in terms of having to complete a year with potentially student teaching, which is so critical. Right. But it's a it's a way for many that they might not be able to get into teaching otherwise because it's a cost savings.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: But the other thing I see is, with the advent of online, bachelor's degrees, they don't have the experience, the the interpersonal skill development that is essential to be a

[R16155-208] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: It's just that it's it's a different kind of education.
TEXT> Have the opportunities to do traditional methods. That's right. Or traditional student teaching. That's right. And and so it is a and that's really critical. And online programs for people are much more affordable. They're much more.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah they're much more prevalent.

[R16155-237] Frank Sprague | Frank Sprague's SECOND cluster, running in parallel with Speaker 1 (th | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: We usually use regular ed instruct, instruct regular ed, equipment repair if you're good with that one.
TEXT> Talking about instruments, it reminds me, when I was in Mr. Harrington's position, the music teacher wanted to buy a. I think it was almost a $5,000 bassoon, so we decided to lease it instead. So by the time the lease was up, the student would have graduated.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So I think we should look at that. So because I mean, I don't I don't want to make more lines, but there are certain things that especially with music

[R16155-251] Candace Crawford | Candace Crawford's SECOND cluster, temporally disjoint from Speaker 6  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Christine Baker: Yes. So the teacher has developed a schedule and, instruction where she's, you know.
TEXT> About how many students would be in one of those classrooms.
NEXT> Christine Baker: Right now, the 4 or 5 combined, we have about 16 kids in. That class.

[R16155-252] Christine Baker | Principal of Bluff Elementary School. The chair calls on her at [370]  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: About how many students would be in one of those classrooms.
TEXT> Right now,  the 4 or 5 combined, we have about 16 kids in. That class.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's interesting.

[R16155-254] Christine Baker | Principal of Bluff Elementary School. The chair calls on her at [370]  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's interesting.
TEXT> The other two classes are slightly bigger because we wanted to keep that one  smaller. To to be more manageable student. We still have the counselor position open as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yep.

[R16155-310] Frank Romeo | Self-identifies at [004] as 'Frank Miller, principal, Claremont Middle | 2024-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: What's that?
TEXT> I said I was hesitant to bring it up because I know I, I  it would have surfaced. I just figured this was late. I really I was. Thinking about that. On a lake bus. Absolutely. I think it absolutely will enhance the experience for kids, get them off the streets, allow us to have more clubs and activities that would extend late,  including homework, club and things like that. Even kids can't stay after for extra help, let alone.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So my the question is, is we now have what, a 12 or 16 person van that would not require somebody to have a CD license. So I would what

[R16155-312] Frank Romeo | Self-identifies at [004] as 'Frank Miller, principal, Claremont Middle | 2024-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: So my the question is, is we now have what, a 12 or 16 person van that would not require somebody to have a CD license. So I would what number are we looking for to accommodate? I mean, high school I'm sure like earlier.
TEXT> High school and whatever we could start off with honestly would be  take a rickshaw, whatever can get kids to stay after for  just. Just keeping.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Them engaged.

[R16155-338] Frank Romeo | Self-identifies at [004] as 'Frank Miller, principal, Claremont Middle | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Romeo: with one of the counselors. So in case I'm called away for something, there's somebody there. But it's two days a week. Kids can pick books out of our book library. They can read the same book. They can do groups. They can read individually.
TEXT> Just kind of depends how the advisor wants to do it. But it's an  embarrassing. But. One of my PE teachers is a football coach. I walked in his room and just sitting there, kids all around him reading, and he said, it's a serious time because it's the only time he gets to read a book.  It's. And I just please stop by. Tuesdays and Thursdays.  Around 1045. It's silent. Is going to be walk in the room and just sit next to a kid and read a book. So we use the book vending machine, and they know that that's going to be in our budget.  I am looking to make a  mandatory summer reading program. Yes.  That is that's  but that's it's really within my budget. Again, that's more of like a small amount that we add for that.  But it's going to be something that we're working on mandatory for  each grade level kids coming up. Yes. My own kids read two books we read together over the summer.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I mean, I think my personal preference, that's a district wide initiative. We should have that at every grade level. A requirement for summer reading.

[R16155-341] Christine Baker | Principal of Bluff Elementary School. The chair calls on her at [370]  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: Good. I'm going.
TEXT> To start with our book vending machine. So each grade level we are calling it a reading challenge. But  each grade level has a way in which students are working towards reaching a goal, whether it's amount of time read or,  and such,  or at home or to someone. And so they enter there. So it's like a drawing. And so every time they reach their goal, they can put their name into a drawing to potentially win a coin. So that's one. One other new way that we're using ours.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's great. That's what I wanted. To hear.

[R16155-355] Frank Sprague | MERGED CLUSTER - carries THREE men. Frank Sprague is the plurality and | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mary Henry: I want to start with the three. How do you see the.
TEXT> How much is that for students. Is it for 5000?
NEXT> Mary Henry: No, I know it would be. Well they've only increased that 1300 as a kid. But you're up at, now getting 1.8 million more. And here's what I haven't had

[R16155-356] Mary Henry | Business Administrator. Self-introduces at [007] ('Mary Henry, busines | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: How much is that for students. Is it for 5000?
TEXT> No, I know it would be. Well they've only increased that 1300 as a kid. But you're up at, now getting 1.8 million more. And here's what I haven't had an opportunity to really dig into it. But I think what's happened is that other towns have been assessed there. So because climate was ahead of the game that there's done, we saw a drop and now we're seeing an increase again because I'm noticing that the town's values are going up. So  that is impacting that, which is great in this situation. I'm very happy with that increase.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is that for this year for 25, 20.

[R16155-380] Frank Sprague | MERGED CLUSTER - carries THREE men. Frank Sprague is the plurality and | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Off high school.
TEXT> That's per student. Per student.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Per student. Okay. Then there's 402 aid placement. And that is for children who are court order placed. So the kid has done something. The court says you're going here.

[R16155-381] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's per student. Per student.
TEXT> Per student. Okay. Then there's 402 aid placement. And that is for children who are court order placed. So the kid has done something. The court says you're going here. The district has to pay $59,740, and then the courts pay everything beyond that. And then there's the episode of treatment, which is supposed to be 100% covered by DHHS for behavioral health issue.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can you repeat. That.

[R16155-386] Frank Sprague | MERGED CLUSTER - carries THREE men. Frank Sprague is the plurality and | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mike McCosker: I'm not going to say what I'm thinking.
TEXT> So. So just for clarity for me, but is this the the States essentially has run out of money? Well, due to high costs of placements or many more kids in one of one of the issues.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Was a year and a half ago. The state. And they'll deny this. So any legislatures watching whatever. This the state changed the age requirement from 21 to 22 years

[R16155-395] Mary Henry | Business Administrator. Self-introduces at [007] ('Mary Henry, busines | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mike McCosker: They're not they're not paying what they're obligated to pay.
TEXT> Because and if you look at the number of count students went up this year. So the number of money they're spending plus remember the cost of district placement has increased drastically since Covid. Yeah. Because they're not there and it's gone through.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Well out of district placement. Price goes up, transportation goes up because you've still got to pay to get those kids from wherever they are to wherever they're going. Everything

[R16155-403] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mary Henry: Oh, sure.
TEXT> We had a medicaid audit. So for kids who have some kind of a medical service, could be speech, could be OT, PT, we're we're able to bill Medicaid for that and like Medicaid should do they do audit.  But what we found out is the audit isn't really fair or objective.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What does that mean?

[R16155-499] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mark Blount: Well, yeah. We have. Yeah, we still there's a void, but we've kind of. Backfilled, so.
TEXT> It's an open position. It's an open position. Yeah. You know, paraprofessionals. And as Mark had mentioned, it's always a moving target.  We've got a kindergarten aged child who's going to be hopefully starting school. I think we said December 9th, who we have to have an a doctor said. So we don't have a choice on that. And I may I may have one. So, but like, that's always a moving target depending on IEPs, medical needs, things like that.  What else? Short tooth elementary counselors.  So we've got a lot of open positions trying to fill, and nobody's applying. So I'm working all the contracted service providers that I know of, and we've we've found some people.  I talked to Courtney today. She said the social worker was working out great for you guys right now.
NEXT> Mark Blount: So she's really. Like.

[R16155-517] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mike McCosker: It's a bit of a heavy lift for the teachers who will be teaching it. It's a several month commitment to being trained in the program. And then, you know, the the yearly fees for running the program. But out of everything you've seen, it's.
TEXT> It's a program that's designed truly for tier three or our most struggling students.  And they work on at times on iPads. So very engaging. Right? It is a very heavy lift in the beginning for the professional development for teachers, which is great because you can't jump in and use the program until you've been appropriately trained. Got it. And so in my budget, I still have included the fees for my three teachers to be using that. Fingers crossed. The the DPA comes in.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: So providing we get over that hurdle, I'd like to see the money in the budget for the other two elementary schools because we want equity across the schools. The

[R16155-518] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: which is great because you can't jump in and use the program until you've been appropriately trained. Got it. And so in my budget, I still have included the fees for my three teachers to be using that. Fingers crossed. The the DPA comes in.
TEXT> So providing we get over that hurdle, I'd like to see the money in the budget for the other two elementary schools because we want equity across the schools. The other thing.  Melissa's team is looking at is trying to vet out a math program for tier three. That could be used between all three buildings.  And they've identified something that may work. They're trying to get me more information. So I'd like to see that be a special ed district initiative as well. I think that's all the  ESL. I do want to touch that.  Our SL teacher started the year. Brand new to the position, and I think the number was seven. Students moved into Claremont from another country.  And she became very overwhelmed very quickly. And there has been the thought, and I've got to get the exact numbers of what she has for ESL, but it's probably more work than one person can do. So we may have to discuss at least looking at a part time person to help carry that load.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's the same language. I'm assuming.

[R16155-520] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's the same language. I'm assuming.
TEXT> Those seven children were the same language.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Same language?

[R16155-528] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mary Henry: And wanting to make sure that that.
TEXT> How they perform on the particular assessment that we're required to give is what dictates how many,  how much service they should receive.  Right. Right now, we're not in compliance with that. For. Students  are of nine of them in my building.
NEXT> Mary Henry: People understood that it.

[R16155-535] Heather Whitney | Chair of the Claremont School Board, named by Sprague at [000] ('To my | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: And and I kudos to our new ESL teacher. She, she was a rock star. She's an absolute rock star. But time wise you can't meet the commitment of the recommendations with one person.
TEXT> So how many students district. Why do you you identified seven. Your  nine.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: I know it's seven. Moved in. I don't have all the numbers.

[R16155-542] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Yeah, in the last few years, which is wonderful now.
TEXT> And fortunately I know this year they had one country of origin. But, you know, the Spanish is the most common language for El students. The and I only know this because I did a training on Friday. No Portuguese. And then what?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I do not have any of that. That speaks.

[R16155-544] Heather Whitney | Chair of the Claremont School Board, named by Sprague at [000] ('To my | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: I do not have any of that. That speaks.
TEXT> No. So what's the cost for for each. I'm just trying to figure out since we know like so what's the cost for each,  average cost for each ESL student, and are we reimbursed for that or. No, I.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Don't believe we're. I don't believe we're reimbursed strictly. It's a district liability level.

[R16155-554] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mary Henry: Yeah. Okay, fine. Not a lot.
TEXT> So, I mean, really, what's the cost? It's that teacher salary and materials.  And she has no supply line, so it's. We need a ESL supply line. I've asked her to spend some time with me so we can look at that and get a real number budgeted in for you guys to consider. Like, you know, if she's got to provide services to students, she needs something to provide those services with.
NEXT> Unidentified: So so.

[R16155-556] Frank Sprague | MERGED CLUSTER - carries THREE men. Frank Sprague is the plurality and | 2024-11-19
PREV> Unidentified: So so.
TEXT> I want to talk about out of district circle back out of this replacement. And coming from. A couple of. Different experiences that I've had,  the first is through, I had the opportunity to talk to one of my GPO or junior juvenile probation officer that I worked with in the past about out of district costs. And it was in the context, actually, of what Chin's conditions currently look like. We were sort of feeling around a board to advocate with those with the state about putting shins back the way they were. That was the context for me, talking with my old colleague Justin Robinson, and he was talking about the quality of placements, and he was saying, because it used to be  when I was acting as a Cortland, as on when we placed a kid through the court, there was a match between what the students issues were and we wanted to put him into he, he or she into a placement that matched therapeutically or behaviorally, whatever their the strength of that program was what this kid needed.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And he has Justin shared with me that, that this is really kind of gone out the window again since Covid, that they, the placements themselves are also understaffed, largely

[R16155-558] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services. The chair hands him the floor at [667] - | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: to provide the services that these kids actually need. So I don't know. I mean, that's Justin talking. But do you get the opportunity to go to any of these placements and see what the kids are? If they're getting what we think they're getting?
TEXT> Not as much as I would like to.  But we have someone who focuses on that work. And like, today she went down to Kendall Firm. Yeah, to visit their program. So it at some point, if you want, we could arrange a visit with her, with you guys to talk more about that. In my last position before coming back to Claremont, I spent more time with that of district placement providers. And I think for the most part, the places where we would send kids to were meeting the needs that we needed met. But I'll be honest, in my last position, I didn't have the level of kids that I'm seeing here with  some of their needs. So. Yeah. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What he referred to as more of, rather than academics or behavior, which is simply containment is what he was.

[R16155-583] Frank Sprague | MERGED CLUSTER - carries THREE men. Frank Sprague is the plurality and | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mary Henry: Yeah I'm hoping the end of the week I'll have it done. I just got to sit down with some other people. Like I said, we got a down and just finalize a few things.
TEXT> But I will I will say to, to our  building leaders that one of the things that drives the board crazy is when we have a, a line for something and then you don't use it. For example, we went through this a number of years ago where we had, we had incentives for kids, PBIs, rewards and things like that. And people would budget $500 for this, never use up any of it. And I think, Melissa probably remember those conversations. I do. So so that's what we really want to make sure you do is if you if you've got it, use. It, okay. Move it or remove.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It or remove it. And then we can or reallocate it.

[R16157-10] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION AND THANKS: 'We | 2024-11-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes, ma'am. Thank you. Okay. Seeing no opposition. We're going to accept the items on the consent agenda. Our next item is citizens comment. Seeing no citizens to comment. We will move forward to this superintendents report.
TEXT> Good evening everybody.  So I'm just going to get right into this month's report and just kind of give you a overview of what you'll see.  Like always, this is published and it's been pushed out to family members in the community. So you can read it at more in depth, but just to review some of this.  So,  I, I pushed out a message last week inviting people to join us tomorrow night for the rollout of the strategic plan for the board. On November 21st. So  you'd be nice if you can join us in person or through CCTV. We spent a lot of work on it. We tried to make it as transparent and possible. We had a lot of community members involved.  So it's very exciting for saw six to have this plan moving forward. So we're welcome. Anyone to join us?  Also,  starting in the new year, I'll be initiating the Superintendents Community advisory committee for engaging with students, families, and staff. And so the timeline for that  over the next few weeks, I'll go through. I think we had I had close to 30 applicants. What I'll do is I'll go through there and I'm looking at moving it up to maybe between 10 and 12 people.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That, and I'm hoping the committee will be a representation of the school community. So and hopefully we'll start at the beginning of the new year, probably towards the end

[R16157-17] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION AND THANKS: 'We | 2024-11-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Where is this CMS?
TEXT> This is that is not attendance is at 257.  Discipline. They had  six out of school suspension incidences to date. And they have a spooky story night in in a Veterans Day assembly. They had  Maple Ave math and reading focus on title one events and some of the events that they're doing. They also have a field trip to the New Hampshire State House in the local library. Maples attendance is at 263.  And right now they're looking at professional development for Lexia core five and happy numbers training sessions. Bluff. Bluff. Increase Ela proficiency from 18 to 27% due to see enhanced growth percentile for students with disabilities. Their current enrollment is 168 students. They also had a Veterans Day event  featuring students performances and recognition of local veterans. Unity school.  There goes a curriculum consistency with new intervention strategies. They developed a portrait of a learner document. Their current  is 91, and they also had multiple community holiday events planned  for November and throughout December. And student services professional development highlights include Case Manager Academy in 504 training, monitoring, compliance with the parent involvement, surveys and evaluation timelines, and open positions. We still have mental health counselor elementary school counselors for Bluff and Maple. So that's just a brief overview of this month's  superintendent  principal report. But if you want more details, there's a lot more information in the report that's published on the website and that has been pushed out to you. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you, Mister Pratt. Is there any questions for Mr. Pratt? I'm Bonnie.

[R16157-37] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION BY | 2024-11-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: two positions for instructional coaching last year. And so we're just getting an update on what those coaches are doing and what we can expect them to do in the future, and what we're hoping to see as a result of the impact. Thank you.
TEXT> Great. So  we'll present to you tonight some some data that we've asked the coaches to collect on the work they're doing. Good. Nice transition. Great. So we have an elementary coach, Katlyn McLaughlin, who is also our curriculum instructor and  curriculum instruction and assessment.  Director, curriculum director. She is working part time in K to five as a coach. And so one of the things because of her work, we were able to assess students K to two in math. And she went  and with teachers through all three elementary schools and did a hands on math assessment, which  is called as a its title is AMC. But it basically asked and helps us to get an idea of where students have math concepts. So given just a pile of things, could you make a group of two? A group of three? A group of five. Can you take your group of ten and split it into two different ways, or three different ways of three different ways, but for different, you know. So it's it's very hands on. It takes only about five minutes, but five, five minutes through 612 students adds up to a good amount of time.
NEXT> Mike Koski: But it gave us a real nice picture of where students were catered to deficit wise. We have some pretty clear goals in in each of those grade levels. Students

[R16157-80] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-11-20
PREV> Mike Koski: to think you can do that on your own without anybody else who's been further down the road than you. Is is kind of wishful thinking. And so to have an experienced instructor help you develop those skills at a faster pace is really beneficial.
TEXT> I had a couple of questions.  First is, so I heard correctly that we still have an open position. Yes, at the elementary school. So my only concern or my, my, my Debbie Downer observation is that,  our part time coach is servicing 612 kids, and our full time coaches are serving small,  far fewer,  kids or classrooms and teachers. And my fear is, is that our elementary school teachers tend to be the younger teachers and the newer teachers.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So it would be interesting to get that data. I'm not sure if that's the case.

[R16157-178] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-11-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Your contract.
TEXT> Yes, it's been. Mr. Sprague, myself and Miss Gillan has been  in concert with the administrative team negotiating with the Sri. There was some language cleanup within the contract just to make clarity.  We've increased some additional duty pay, which was extremely outdated. Increasing extra day for about 20 to 40, an hour. Yeah. And the cola this year is going to be for this for 25 and 26 and 26 to 27. It's two and a half. Two and a half. The team was very gracious when we articulated to them that on of the board goals which we have discussed is to be able to really support our paraprofessionals who  have been, in the board's opinion, have not been compensated well. And,  the school's working conditions and the availability for pairs for our special needs students and for actually in the classroom has suffered because we have not been able to recruit. And so,  the folks that were at the table heard this and, were supportive of their colleagues. And we're very generous.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You know, you know, you can I know that was a that. Was.

[R16158-0] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024); Claremont School Boar | 2024-11-21
PREV> 
TEXT> Good evening folks. I'd like to welcome everyone who is here in person and everyone who's watching us on CCTV. I'd like to welcome you to a presentation of the  strategic plan and implementation being provided by the DM Group that we have been working with.  Staff has been working with them, there has been student surveys, the community has had involvement, and it's nice to see people here in the audience to join us. So thank you for that. I'd like to have  Mr. Pratt take over and introduce Tess.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. So, good evening everyone. So so tonight we have the district management group, as, as Hawkins says, stated that we've been working with them. Since when do we start?

[R16158-1] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (permanent since June 2024). Chair Ha | 2024-11-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Staff has been working with them, there has been student surveys, the community has had involvement, and it's nice to see people here in the audience to join us. So thank you for that. I'd like to have Mr. Pratt take over and introduce Tess.
TEXT> Yeah. So,  good evening everyone. So so tonight we have the district management group, as,  as Hawkins says, stated that we've been working with them.  Since when do we start? In June. Yeah.  We tried to make it a very transparent process with involving the community, community members, parents,  students,  because this is a very important plan for the district moving forward. I think it's going to take us to the next level in regards to how we operate the schools, how we run the schools, how we make our decisions. And the importance of a strategic plan is that we kind of build everything around it. And that's why it was important to have, you know, so many people involved in creating this. I think it's a big step forward for us. It's pretty much the map, including the destination that we want to reach for saw six. So without further ado, I want to welcome Tess Nicholson Powers, who has been the lead on this, and I'm going to hand it over to her.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: Great. Thank you. Well, good evening all. Thank you for coming out on a rainy night, especially, and really excited to be bringing the final draft of the strategic plan,

[R16158-3] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (DMG); lead consultant on the SAU  | 2024-11-21
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: started in May a little earlier than I thought. So in May through July, we conducted a preliminary analysis needs assessment in order to understand what are the most pressing needs of the district to ensure the plan targets those specific things and not everything.
TEXT> So did that through quantitative data analysis, qualitative data analysis by talking to a lot of people, doing community feedback surveys, meeting student feedback as well, which took us into the actual development of the strategic plan from July to October, where we brought it back to the community again. So here are the folks we talked to. A lot of folks, actually a lot of other community members  here who are not represented, but got a lot of the qualitative feedback from folks,  most notably to a very highly participated student survey, which I think was great to see students providing their input and feedback in what they want to see  with that data analysis. And then the key areas that we engage the community on were talking about enrollment, how that has shifted over the past several years,  academics, of course, social emotional staff, finance and operations, and family engagement. And this just quantifies  all of the stakeholder engagement and input we had,  again, most notably, 120 student  responses to that survey at the high school. We then created a group just of stakeholders of district and school leaders and board members who took all of the input that was provided and actually got to work in drafting the strategic plan. So we met over the course of all of these meetings, really digging into that data  and taking many iterations of drafts of plans to refine to make sure it did reflect what we heard from the.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: So the last meeting this group had was about a month ago in mid-October, where we did go through that feedback. We got in the final meeting, which I know

[R16158-6] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024); Claremont School Boar | 2024-11-21
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: preliminary analysis that I talked about. So a lot in there. But again, kind of the meat of it to being those key components of the strategic plan. So mission can I get a board member to read your mission statement? I'll I'll do that.
TEXT> For us. Our mission, our mission is to inspire, engage and empower every student in Claremont and Unity to achieve academic excellence in a safe, positive and personalized learning environment.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: Great. And I always say mission is what staff are committing to every single day. Whether you show up in a classroom or in district office or to the board

[R16158-8] Rocco Ruggeri |  | 2024-11-21
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: staff are committing to every single day. Whether you show up in a classroom or in district office or to the board table. Most simply, it's just what you're committing to every single day. And then vision. Can I have someone read the vision? Sure.
TEXT> A vision. Students will experience success and become lifelong critical thinkers and learners, creative problem solvers and engaged citizens.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: Great. Yeah. So this was sometimes missions and visions are almost the hardest to craft, because a lot of people want a lot of words in there, but wanted to

[R16158-11] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (permanent since June 2024). Chair Ha | 2024-11-21
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: on the left, you'll see the actual goals in the middle, the data source that has been identified, and then whether or not there is baseline data available or not. So here for student outcomes, can I get someone to read the student outcomes priorities.
TEXT> SC six will ensure that each and every student reaches it exceeds expected academic outcomes. By focusing on early literacy and numeracy and raising graduation rates.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: And so as I mentioned, just there's a lot of research now across the country that, of course, if a student can or cannot read by third grade, that really

[R16158-12] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (DMG); lead consultant on the SAU  | 2024-11-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: SC six will ensure that each and every student reaches it exceeds expected academic outcomes. By focusing on early literacy and numeracy and raising graduation rates.
TEXT> And so as I mentioned, just there's a lot of research now  across the country that, of course, if a student can or cannot read by third grade, that really dictates outcomes moving forward. And just based on some of those early literacy and numeracy scores, the district felt important to prioritize and focus on that area. I want to make very clear that does not mean that middle school is not important  or high school is not important, etc., but being able to prioritize and put a stake in the ground. We always say if everything is important, nothing is important,  etc. so the ways that that the district has committed to measuring this is looking at  increasing the percentage of students K through two that are meeting or exceeding expectations on literacy. Local benchmark assessments, increasing the percentage of students who are meeting expectations in math based on that local benchmark.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: And then also not only looking at proficiency, but that third one really focuses on growth. So how are students, maybe who are a couple of years behind? Are they

[R16158-17] Unidentified | Unidentified - reads the student-well-being priority statement at the  | 2024-11-21
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: that they have the support to ultimately be effective in the classroom. So you can see how those three kind of lead up to ultimately making sure you can retain highly effective staff student well-being. Who can I get to read that? Go ahead Michael.
TEXT> And so you since will ensure all students have the holistic supports they need to feel a sense of pride and belonging in school to experience success. Great.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: So first two goals here one if students feel well then they should come to school every day. And so top goal here is decreasing that percentage of students who

[R16158-32] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (DMG); lead consultant on the SAU  | 2024-11-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: of additional support, the the priority is for all students, those who are struggling, but also those who are exceeding the outcomes. So we have to make sure we are meeting the needs of all of our students. And I think that is so important.
TEXT> Thank you for highlighting that, because I know there is a lot of conversation, even just intentionally using the words like each and every student, not even just broadly saying students or all students like know each and every student since. Yes, their needs are different.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think one of the biggest problems or challenges is to build trust within the district. And that this is something that's not just we've had a lot of changes

[R16158-39] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024); Claremont School Boar | 2024-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: is very much our kids that are are below or needed grade level, but do have kids who are above. And I don't see that to be any. Other than in the word that we're going to need every kid, but. Everything is being taught.
TEXT> If I can respond to that, one of the things that has already been begun have been the benchmark assessments throughout the year. I believe it's three points during the year, and every student is measured as to where they are. So we we are aware of students who are not where they should be or where they should be, and those who are exceeding the level. Our plan, our growth, our steps is to make sure instruction is aligned with where those students are at. And it takes the one thing, and we've talked about this a little bit, is that we're working with humans, people. So the students of people, the teachers are people, the administrators are people. We're all. So it takes time, and we're really being very careful in implementing something that will be sustainable long term, because we haven't had that until now. I don't know if Mr. Kosky wants to.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I would just the the third bullet point, I would think kind of addresses this, that we want all students to make at least that one year of growth. Right.

[R16158-43] Unidentified | Unidentified community member - a woman speaking from the audience dur | 2024-11-21
PREV> Mike Koski: Oh absolutely. Yeah.
TEXT> Differentiates among a wide range of students with improvement. And just for example like the happy numbers program when they go through it. So if you test above fifth grade or at the higher level where productive from within that program, right?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Not within that. So you would use something different or have different materials. Yes. Right.

[R16158-46] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (permanent since June 2024). Chair Ha | 2024-11-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Are there any other questions or thoughts from.
TEXT> You know, I. Keep. Keep going back thinking that there's so much potential in Claremont that we need to tap into, and this plan is going to give us that guidance that we need to move forward to meet the needs of students, teachers, community members. So. We're not going to fully we have a lot of work to do. You know, we want to raise the bar. We want to have a game plan. But until now, I haven't seen a game plan. We're going into it blindly, you know, if we're if budgets are, you know, if budgets are increasing or, you know, academic scores are going up or going down, we need this plan to show the community, say we're all on the same page. Now, if you have a question about it, we should be able to directly relate it to our strategic plan or map. So we're all going in the same direction. So we have we have a lot of work to do. But I know with this plan and the people we have in place in retaining those people across both districts, Unity and Claremont, that I think we're on the edge of making great progress, where people are going to want to move to the community for the education and going to get for the Karen teachers that are providing them their education.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So it's like this is the first steps, and that's why it's so exciting to have a plan like this. So we're all on the same page. You don't have

[R16158-49] Liz Vogel | Citizen; parent of a Maple Ave Elementary pupil. SELF-IDENTIFIED at 18 | 2024-11-21
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: I was a teacher, I was like, families are the first teacher. You all spend more time with teachers every day. So having that be really integrated as well and cohesive. So it's very exciting. I think that's a good oh sorry. Just go ahead.
TEXT> Yeah. I just. Have one more question. My name is Liz Vogel. I'm a kid in Maple Ave and one going to be coming into Maple Ave next year. Really excited for that.  I'm curious to and perhaps he'll get to this. First of all, I have to say I love strategic planning. I know you can strategic planning.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: I love. That.

[R16158-62] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (DMG); lead consultant on the SAU  | 2024-11-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> And I would say like that, and I know I talked to the high school principal a couple of months ago after a community meeting, and he was talking about engaging that,  you know, that may be a specific initiative aligned to the strategic plan, like, yes, we're going to create, I don't know what they're calling it now, but like a group at the high school that engages families in X, Y, z ways, that will hopefully then if you think back to the goals, support families  in their confidence in communication, the district, etc.  so even if it's not the specific subcommittee, I think it's a very aligned initiative. I would call it to the strategic plan. So that's like one example in action of the strategic plan already. Great.  So that's the structure and just kind of where  things will be going next. So we showed those overall goals.  But what's going to be most important now is to set Smart goals.  So goals that are very measurable  in order to be definitive of whether you've been successful or not. So what has already been established by the working committee? This is just an example. But this yellow part around increase the number of students who feel a sense of belonging. That's the actual measurable goal or power standard.  We call it  what is in the process of being developed for for goals that have baseline data, is that specific target.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: So what is that x percent that are we are going to go for. Yes. It's good to set you know a five year goal 2030. But what's more important

[R16192-11] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). THE SAME V | 2024-12-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I have, one item that is a kudos to someone. And then a request for next week's s, a board meeting request and their other business. Neither of which require a decision.
TEXT> Perfect. Are there any objections to the additions or the alterations to the agenda? Seeing none, we'll accept the changes to the agenda.  Are there any requests of changes or alterations to our minutes? And  while  I just want to say thank you for you do great minutes and yes, yes,  it's it's really appreciated and we can actually use them. And so thank you. And when I was reading them over I just was like these are awesome. So thank you very much. Next order of business assistant comments. Seeing no citizens comments, I won't go through the diatribe of what's expected from citizens.  We are also supposed to have a school board member student board member report from Miles and Clark. Seeing that they are not present, we are going to move on to the first  action item on the agenda. Seeing that  we do not have the presenters available to us now, we will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is an update from Mr. Kosky or Assistant Super  Intendant on the state results.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Great.

[R16192-17] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Now a lot lower would be today.
TEXT> Yeah.  The next bar.  And we'll just look at this area for all grades tested for now, because the numbers are relatively low. But English percent of students scoring proficient in English is much higher  than our math proficiency. So math proficiency is around 30%. English is  upper the I think it's low 70s percent. And then  what is a  little concerning is. The. Group that didn't achieve either benchmark. So they were below that proficient line in in both English reading and writing and their math scores.  So.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I'm sorry. Mr.. The color differentiation is difficult for me to determine between achieve no and math meets I'm not on the. On the. That's meets okay. Got it. Thank

[R16192-20] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Thank you.  If you if we separated out by grades ten and 11, grade nine had fewer than ten participants. And so it didn't.  Okay. Break out. They they don't break out scores if it's less than ten.  But similar results for the individual grade. We. See. In grade 11.  Improvements in math is that  these are different groups of kids. But in general we see the same trend English scoring, higher, math scoring lower  and the,  when we get into approaching and who's under it, it  becomes a very blurry, defining piece. Because they they don't they change their reporting. PSAT will report that way. SATs won't. So when we get to, those other slides, any any questions about this fall's PSAT before we go.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Forward, what is your. W stand for?

[R16192-30] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Good. I see anybody.
TEXT> Colleges have decreased their importance on the SAT for admittance. And,  so that may be part of the reduction in interest in taking it.  The other piece to know is that we, as a school system, pay for the tests so students don't have to pay to take the test.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: PSAT as well.

[R16192-35] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Great. So  2023, we have  the SAT scores and the spring SAT scores.  Again, both benchmarks met. Percent of the test takers. 33 students. In grades nine through 11 took the test in  the. We had 95 test  takers. So the whole 11th grade takes the test. And if we compare the practice to the,  the practice PSAT to the actual S.A.T., again, we see English higher than math scores.  We we unfortunately see  a  pretty steep increase in the not achieving on either benchmark with that group. Partly that may be to students who are forced to take the test that have no interest in taking an SAT test.  If they know they're not going to college, there's no incentive to try or do. Well.  That that can be problematic and skew our scores. But our math scores  dropped,  quite a bit between the PSAT and S.A.T.. Again, different groups of students. Right. But the. The. Point of the practice is to to see those SAT scores. So when we look at other years, we could we can kind of go back and forth to see. Questions before I move on. Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is there another comment if I could. So one of the things that that's actually good about the SAT, as far as the it's in April, right? The April administration

[R16192-36] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-12-04
PREV> Mike Koski: Again, different groups of students. Right. But the. The. Point of the practice is to to see those SAT scores. So when we look at other years, we could we can kind of go back and forth to see. Questions before I move on. Yes.
TEXT> Is there another comment if I could. So one of the things that that's actually good about the SAT, as far as the it's in April, right? The April administration of the SAT is back when we used to do the kneecap and before that the knee.  We didn't have anything to motivate our high achieving students to try on those tests. And so the, the SAT, at least you get your best performance out of your best students. Whereas in prior administrations, with the state, with the regional tests,  we didn't always. So, so in my mind, the city is going to get better results than those other score other test way.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, it's it's hard to pinpoint the motivational piece in testing. Yeah. But in general, you would think if, if there's the student has some skin in the game to

[R16192-37] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: least you get your best performance out of your best students. Whereas in prior administrations, with the state, with the regional tests, we didn't always. So, so in my mind, the city is going to get better results than those other score other test way.
TEXT> Yeah, it's it's hard to pinpoint the motivational piece in testing. Yeah.  But in general, you would think if, if there's the student has some skin in the game to benefit from doing well in the test, that that they will do better or at least try harder.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R16192-39] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Here's our fall 22 PSAT.  This would lead to the spring S.A.T.. And so we see. 15% meeting both benchmarks on the practice test. That is the whole grade getting tested. 205 students were tested in 2022 for the PS 80. If we and we have both benchmarks at about 15%, if we go back, we're closer to 40% when students are selecting themselves to take the test. And,  but if we look at our S.A.T. with, again, the whole grade took. It. The city went up a little bit in the English section compared to the state, but not a not a big move. Right. And then math the orange line, right. At 17%. And in the SAT, we're just about the same spot. So not a lot of movement between those which we would expect. It shows it's an accurate indicator when the whole grade took the test. And those are our scores. And our  again our underperforming students is still our largest piece. Our spring 23 SATs, the entire 11th grade tested,  math approaches a little higher percent. It's gone up. I'm sorry. English and math at both.  Increased a little bit. The  not meeting a benchmark is still, kind of high equity. On this test. These are.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Our state averages, orange and green for that year. So we're performing a little under state average. Compared to national average. When we looked at these test scores where the

[R16192-40] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Mike Koski: Our spring 23 SATs, the entire 11th grade tested, math approaches a little higher percent. It's gone up. I'm sorry. English and math at both. Increased a little bit. The not meeting a benchmark is still, kind of high equity. On this test. These are.
TEXT> Our state averages, orange and green for that year. So we're performing a little under state average.  Compared to national average.  When we looked at these test scores where the students selected themselves, they scored above the national average for SAT and SAT scores in both English and math.  But when we test the whole grade.  We're coming out below a state average. And then finally, there's our fall 22. And then. We've got those out of order. Sorry. And went back to the beginning. Okay. So, questions about the scores or trends canvas.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Before they take this step, in the years where all of the students were required to take the test.

[R16192-43] Candace Crawford | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-12-04
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes.
TEXT> Were there any, trial tests for. I mean, part  the SATs. A lot of it is how to take the test. And how to interpret the questions. And a lot of I mean, a lot of the success can be attributed to just practice and knowledge of how to take the test. And so I wondered if there was any prep in the years when every student had to take it. Did they at least have a pretest or a way of seeing what it looked like?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. I don't know.

[R16192-46] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> If that was done. I know we're planning on doing that this year for our juniors taking the city. Yeah.  We have some,  software programs that they can use to practice, but we've got our teachers and math and English also prepping students to show the format and  kind of guide them through the test, taking a little bit.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I know that's a lot of reason why they take the PSA. T is to just prep itself.

[R16192-48] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: I know that's a lot of reason why they take the PSA. T is to just prep itself.
TEXT> Yeah. But if that if you only just take the state and don't really study or prepare further. Yeah.  So I've tutored SATs and you can raise a student score 100 to 200 points without too much effort. Just getting them used to the the test and the way the question and the answer. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Right.

[R16192-50] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-12-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Right.
TEXT> I know that we used to have a partnership with Dartmouth, and they they would send students down to as part of test  city practice, and they worked with large groups of kids to with great results. So I don't know if they're out there.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. I can look into that.

[R16192-58] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). THE SAME V | 2024-12-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: But it also reflects if you don't include those test scores on your application. Sure. Kind of it sends a mixed message.
TEXT> I think to your point though, Kenny and gone through this process recently with a couple of children.  S.A.T. results are  still really required for Stem.
NEXT> Mike Koski: That makes sense.

[R16192-61] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). THE SAME V | 2024-12-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. So  anybody who was even has an inkling of wanting to go into a Stem field, and a lot of your elite institutions that had done away with SAT scores like Dartmouth that are now bringing them back. That's right. That's right.  They're being seen as a predictor of of success, whether that's right or wrong.  I think there was a shift at one point. And then they found that kids that were coming in without their SAT scores were really struggling. Yes.  And so if a kid wants to go into a Stem, you still have to kill your SATs. You're just not going to be admitted into it. You're just going to be omitted into the program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So one last comment. We used to have a program also called Educational Talent Search. And this is a program for high potential, low asset kids who had aspirations to

[R16192-63] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). THE SAME V | 2024-12-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: change over at times with the people that were coming to Claremont to run it. But yeah, they did. And they helped in college applications and essays and, kind of finding your way of what you might want to do. And that's a that's interesting.
TEXT> Just one more thing. Just for any student who's listening, is that if you don't do well with your grades and you kill the SATs, you're okay. Yeah.  And  I recently had a friend of mine whose daughter hated every minute of high school, really stunk at it. Barely eked out her graduation. She knocked her sats out of the park, and she got a full ride.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah.

[R16192-67] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). THE SAME V | 2024-12-04
PREV> Mike Koski: got to remember that you need a post to start right before you can count your fence post. And so it's it's questions like that that are application questions or logic based questions. So do you point about Stem fields. Yeah. Is it is important.
TEXT> And just one. Why wouldn't we have every kid do the state. Well we do the downside if we're only having 33 kids did the PSAT. Oh yes. Why don't we have every child at a certain grade? Take the seat. Is it. Does it? Is it not giving us any data that we need? Is it?
NEXT> Mike Koski: I think that was the argument when it stopped in 22.

[R16192-69] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). THE SAME V | 2024-12-04
PREV> Mike Koski: I think that was the argument when it stopped in 22.
TEXT> Well, I guess in 10th grade. I know that when I went, there's a million years ago, but every 10th grader took the SAT. Yeah. I think just to make you think that you're going to be taking the same kind of program kids into making that part of their life plan is that you're going to be taking SAT.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So, yeah, I'm not sure what the decision was in 22 to stop and go to a selective group. But, you can talk to the new administration about that.

[R16192-87] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky'). CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'w | 2024-12-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You're going to say that I just needed to.
TEXT> It it is interesting to look at the data because there are districts that are some of the highest paying in the state for their teachers, but their student scores aren't necessarily  the best student scores. So you can compare it against  teacher pay. You can compare the scores against socioeconomic factors,  against, free and reduced lunch rates and things like that. But the, the western part of the state in general, south of Lebanon are the lower scoring parts of the, of the state.  But then that varies. Then there are little pockets of  around the state of difficulty. Yeah. And and the same on the other end. Those are dispersed into different towns.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Okay.

[R16192-95] Lily Clark | STUDENT BOARD MEMBER, Stevens High School (seated with Miles Sheehan ~ | 2024-12-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Horizons.
TEXT> Yes. And so far, we have been fundraising, and we actually held donkey basketball  at the school.  Bryce Jones, Dana rider, Crystal Dakota, Leslie Peabody, one of our faculty members.  CPD Anthony Vaccaro and CPD  Adam Ruggles,  emerged victorious in a nail biting sudden death match against the Dairy Heirs, which was a team composed of 43 staff. And, we came home with a trophy. I also participated in donkey basketball with the students, and it was actually really fun. Even though some were kind of rowdy. But it was it was really fun. And we raised quite a bit of money. We also got to see,  Crystal Simons and one of our,  science teachers, Mr. Milbourne, because we fundraised, we asked people like who? Which teacher? And they wanted to see kiss, and you put money in and whoever had the most money had doctor. So that was pretty cool.  We have more fundraisers going around the school. So,  National Art society is doing a Humane Society drive, and we have a box where you can just put your donations in, in Miss Taylor's office, and then student council is doing a food drive for  the soup kitchen.
NEXT> Lily Clark: And the box is also in the office. Student council is also holding a winter pep rally. We're working on the logistics right now, and all the different activities we

[R16192-96] Lily Clark | STUDENT BOARD MEMBER, Stevens High School (seated with Miles Sheehan ~ | 2024-12-04
PREV> Lily Clark: fundraisers going around the school. So, National Art society is doing a Humane Society drive, and we have a box where you can just put your donations in, in Miss Taylor's office, and then student council is doing a food drive for the soup kitchen.
TEXT> And the box is also in the  office. Student council is also holding a winter pep rally. We're working on the logistics right now, and all the different activities we hope will get everyone involved. And we're also deciding on our spirit week. And then Myles and I are juniors, so we're currently trying to fundraise for our problem this year and our senior trip. So we're holding a board game night,  on Thursday, December 5th to hopefully raise some money.  Our vice president is actually here. Malachi.  Prom committee has been meeting, and we now have our subcommittees on different things like decor, food. And we also signed up for a bunch of concession stands for our basketball games. So hopefully we can raise more money there to.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: All right. Hi.

[R16192-106] Lily Clark | STUDENT BOARD MEMBER, Stevens High School (seated with Miles Sheehan ~ | 2024-12-04
PREV> Miles Sheehan: It will also be featured in the concert this year in the winter concert.
TEXT> We meet every Monday. And a student at Unh.  We call him Mr. Stewart. He comes all the way. He drives all the way here to teach us jazz band for an hour, and then drives all the way back every week on Monday.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: For one hour. He's here.

[R16192-125] Unidentified | UNIDENTIFIED - inside the 1907-2057 s failed-projector stretch, where  | 2024-12-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> A student.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, is there any way this could somehow be given to Chelsea to be incorporated in the minutes so that everybody has an opportunity to have the public access?

[R16192-137] Sarah Wheeler | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - a senior. SELF-IDENTIFICATION | 2024-12-04
PREV> Sarah Wheeler: on the prior on the prior slide, the hippocampus controls other function as well. These functions are the lymphatic system. The function of the brain is responsible for feelings and react and reactions. And it's also responsible for the fight or flight that we see.
TEXT> So this is one of our questions.  It was on average, how many hours of sleep do you get at night? The largest is seven hours. However,  for our age group, it is recommended you get at least eight hours. And it has seen that many other people are still not receiving the full 7 hours or 8 hours that they should be. So it is still a concern. What effect distress have on your life? Your body? You get headaches, muscle tension, chest pain, fatigue, stomach aches, insomnia weaken and it can weaken immune system psychologically.  There's lack of motivation, memory, function  problems, anger, sadness, depression, and an inability to focus. The results that are being seen by many school districts.  Drug and alcohol use different eating habits, outbursts, and changes in behavior and avoidance. This was another one of our questions.  How stress do you feel on a scale from 1 to 10? Ten being the most stress you've ever felt and one being none? Almost none. Only 3.7 of our school percent of our school does not feel stressed, while 11.1 of our school is feeling the most stress. This is very specific to the two very different extremes, and many students and staff members are lying right in the middle or somewhere in between.
NEXT> Sarah Wheeler: So what does this tell us? Out of 194 students and staff, 124 reported to have above average stress stress levels. This means that 63.8% of student and staff attending

[R16192-138] Sarah Wheeler | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - a senior. SELF-IDENTIFICATION | 2024-12-04
PREV> Sarah Wheeler: school percent of our school does not feel stressed, while 11.1 of our school is feeling the most stress. This is very specific to the two very different extremes, and many students and staff members are lying right in the middle or somewhere in between.
TEXT> So what does this tell us?  Out of 194 students and staff, 124 reported to have above average stress stress levels. This means that 63.8% of student and staff attending Stevens High School has higher stress levels than they should. This is another survey question. What is your stress originate? Most of students and staff and QAS are feeling stressed from school related problems than personal related. The mix of both school related and personal related causes great turmoil in the brain, especially on developing brains. High stress can affect parts of the brain such as the hippocampus as well. Like I said before.
NEXT> Malachi: Now, if we would like to look into the more scientific. Reason. On why. This. Is affecting our students and. Teachers so much, we can look at the harbor, the

[R16192-141] Malachi | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - class vice president and a ju | 2024-12-04
PREV> Malachi: our contractual time. To summarize, our expectations are. Outside of our contractual time. We have rapidly increased in an unstable way. This staff member is very upset with the new schedule, and I've seen this around the school, not just through students, but through staff.
TEXT> The general consensus is there's not enough time. Not enough time to grade, not enough time  to function, not enough time for your brain. If you have an English class and you're going right into a math class, you're not going to be thinking in a math terms. You're going to be thinking in English terms. So that hard transition at least takes 510 minutes. And when our periods are only 46 minutes, that leaves about 30 minutes of leaving time, including getting there, packing up, setting up, and especially for teachers trying to make engaging lesson plans, 46 minutes just usually isn't adequate to get a nice, deep, engaging lesson then. Another staff response we got was, well, the immediate purpose for the schedule change is clear and sensible. Further research should have been done prior to implementation on the impact this has on students,  not to mention faculty and staff in the building block. Scheduling can be effective tool for struggling students if teachers are using the time appropriately. Adequate training, applied consistently and updated regularly, helps teachers use their time to the best of their abilities.
NEXT> Malachi: This period scheduling ignores the needs of our advanced students, shoving labs, visual performances and arts, writing workshops, debates, discussions, and basically any in-depth investigation. Because these things do take

[R16192-144] Malachi | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - class vice president and a ju | 2024-12-04
PREV> Malachi: of kids do, but there is some leniency there. But that is just another factor, I always think. I also think that in some way, every kid should have access to a study hall period, as I did request one that I did not receive.
TEXT> And now such, I'm suffering even more from the overwhelming workload. A common complaint. Amongst another common complaint among student teachers is the change was very sudden. It wasn't really eased into so students didn't really know how to react. House was going to change and teachers  did not have ready lesson plans. Teachers that have been teaching for 20, even 30 years have been doing the same thing on a pretty consistent schedule. And such a major change up like this, especially when you've been perfecting something for so long, is not easy to just cut in half and double across the week. So this leads to a lot of students getting overloaded with work and not really knowing what to do. Our last student response says overall, the school environment kills students hopes and dreams. I've heard more students say they want to drop out and that they are failing many classes. This year. Our graduation rate was at 79.5 in 2022, and well, last year it went up to 81%. I'm afraid that with this new schedule it would drop again. We see teachers and students having to take mental health days because of the stress,  and we aren't even two months into the school year.
NEXT> Malachi: What are we going to do when we have teachers quitting? Our environment was already full of stress before the period change, but now our students are getting the same

[R16192-146] Malachi | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - class vice president and a ju | 2024-12-04
PREV> Malachi: students and staff that we surveyed, 124 reported above average stress levels. More specifically, the majority of participants stress originated from our school or both school and home. We believe that this is directly correlated to the new schedule based on the student teacher responses.
TEXT> From our final question, how can we help reduce your stress on this? Many respondents stated that they felt lack of support through the school and requested more efforts to further support their student body.  Along with that, many people feel heard and or  feel unsupported by Avenue. We hope that you will take everything we have provided today into consideration to help us find a solution to the decreased stress levels. Create a new environment where everyone can succeed and incorporate a better support for our school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: First, thank you very much for coming in giving this presentation. Clearly a ton of work was put into it. You both presented very professionally. You should be very proud

[R16192-150] Malachi | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - class vice president and a ju | 2024-12-04
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So this this. Survey was fantastic. Very interesting. And I'd like to know. How the idea came up to do this.
TEXT> So, for our psychology class, Mr. Hammond wanted to do a project that,  he noticed that a lot of kids in our class, we don't have a very big class. So it's pretty apparent when people are tired. Like many a few people in our class would have their heads down every day. And he just made a little note that, like, hey, you guys really are not getting enough sleep. So we he said, if you guys want to look into that on a deeper level, I can tell that a lot of students and other staff are not getting enough sleep this year compared to last year, and that might be because of a change of schedules. So we as a class thought that would be a good idea to maybe do a survey. And honestly, I didn't think it would get to the school board. I thought it was just going to be another project in class. But this is where.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But here you are.

[R16192-154] Sarah Wheeler | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - a senior. SELF-IDENTIFICATION | 2024-12-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: was my day. I would have two study halls of 45 or 47 minutes, very similar. And, and but I was taking five classes. So what what is the expectation now? What are the graduation requirements and how many classes a day must you take.
TEXT> So  there are different credit levels so you can graduate with. Now there's the 21 I believe a 23 and then 27.  However, with the way a lot of our schedules are kind of set up, many people graduate with more than a 27 credits,  because of just extra curricular, like extra classes added on.  I am a senior this year, so  I  have with my schedule, I've kind of trying to take on more college classes so I can take advantage of that opportunity that our school has provided for us. And I know many of the juniors have also taken that opportunity as well, which takes a very heavy load because it is is a college class. We most students this year are taking 6 or 7 classes. I have one study hall and  this isn't the normal that many other students have observed, but I am. I'm going to be a nurse. I am taking the EMT course that's offered for us. And with that, because it is at a different school, I travel and I go to my my schedule is not not okay and not what it's supposed to be. Honestly,  I leave  my fourth period, ten minutes into class and I get back,  halfway through my sixth period, and I go to college stats.
NEXT> Sarah Wheeler: So I go, I try to get my EMT license, I come back and I am in college stats trying to pass, and I have 20 minutes to get all

[R16192-161] Sarah Wheeler | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - a senior. SELF-IDENTIFICATION | 2024-12-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's.
TEXT> So that also has to go with a lot. Along with many people feeling unsupported.  We have one guidance counselor.  And  with the amount of students that we have, it's kind of hard to give to get to meet with each individual student and give what they want.  And it's just I understand that it's hard to get to each individual student, but that is something that needs to be addressed because students need what they need. And if somebody is if people are feeling like they have such a heavy workload, they need that break even those 45 minutes.  Those are  the only 45 minutes that they may get all day.
NEXT> Malachi: Yeah, I would say we definitely I mean, I know it's not as easy as just hiring someone, but especially towards the beginning of the year and the switch in

[R16192-162] Malachi | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - class vice president and a ju | 2024-12-04
PREV> Sarah Wheeler: needs to be addressed because students need what they need. And if somebody is if people are feeling like they have such a heavy workload, they need that break even those 45 minutes. Those are the only 45 minutes that they may get all day.
TEXT> Yeah, I would say we definitely I mean,  I know it's not as easy as just hiring someone, but especially towards the beginning of the year and the switch in the semester, having one guidance counselor, it's not just hard on us as a student body, it's hard on her.  Like  all the Add drops that happened in the semesters or in the first two weeks, I wouldn't be able to manage all that. I feel like it's just a really difficult thing to put on one person.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.

[R16192-165] Sarah Wheeler | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - a senior. SELF-IDENTIFICATION | 2024-12-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: the. Guidance counselor or the school counselor, and we are trying actively to to fill those positions. There are there are two open positions and we can't find teachers. So it's not that we aren't trying to fill those positions. And I think that's important.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah, we definitely we definitely see it. And we've been trying to I know that at least I have. And Malik, I have  I have been talking to my fellow students and I,  I kind of see a little bit more than they do because I'm told a little bit more because of this opportunity I've been given, we see that you guys are doing stuff,  but it's just we just want to really show you the impact that's happening. Like, we understand that those positions are open. It's not like that. You can just hire anybody off the street. Right? We just it really is impacting us.
NEXT> Malachi: Yeah. We really didn't come here to like almost attack you guys and tell you the reason that we, we just we felt like it was more of a one,

[R16192-166] Malachi | STUDENT PRESENTER, Stevens High School - class vice president and a ju | 2024-12-04
PREV> Sarah Wheeler: are doing stuff, but it's just we just want to really show you the impact that's happening. Like, we understand that those positions are open. It's not like that. You can just hire anybody off the street. Right? We just it really is impacting us.
TEXT> Yeah. We really didn't come here to like almost attack you guys and tell you the reason that we, we just we felt like it was more of a one, like the students were just seeing what was happening and not seeing the reason why. We just kind of wanted to be encouraged from the student body  to you guys.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, you brought the human element in beautifully. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. I just.

[R16192-351] Candace Crawford | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-12-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: we've kind of discussed that there's nobody needs to present for that or has anything to add. We've already talked about what's going on with the finance committee. Other business. Miss Crawford, would you like to start with your letter to the Senator Ward? Sure.
TEXT> So  I received, An email from Kathy Hubert, who was on the nonpartisan Funding Fairness Project and saving answers for funding education.  And it was a it's a letter that she was asking if, individuals or school boards would endorse, this letter would add their name to this letter as the signatories  and, for to keep in mind, this is regarding the lawsuit, that, Claremont was a, coal plaintiff, and we were successful with the state Supreme Court. And, they they recommended that the adequacy a be set at a little over 7300 students per student as a result of the the, convey a lawsuit. And so  our state senator is Ruth Ward,  and she happens to be, the chairman of the education committee in the Senate. And this is a letter asking as her constituents to have a bill to increase adequacy aid to the 7356 per student. Right now, it's 4100 to do what the state Supreme Court said was she should do.  And so I wanted you to all see the letter. And if we could I don't know whether the board feels comfortable being in support of this letter. I, as an individual do, but I would love to see, since we were plaintiffs in this, I think we should be, supporting this effort.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: This is nonpartisan, and it's it's part of funding fairness. And I think we have a responsibility to the, taxpayers in Claremont to get as much money as we can

[R16213-82] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - MEDIUM confidence and NO direct name | 2024-12-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: Compiling, collecting data.
TEXT> Yeah, right. And so additionally, she's involved in  assessing students to be able to measure progress. So she's doing the test scores.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Or just analyzing the results.

[R16213-86] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board; Claremont School Board member - opens the me | 2024-12-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: To system and make sure things are nice and ready to roll out. So testing.
TEXT> So is the testing of the K to two students. Is that part of her piece that's a coach right now or is that.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes. Yes. So she's doing that as a coach. It's a new assessment. She was more familiar with it. And so for efficiency sake. Yeah. When did that.

[R16215-11] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: feds. But we're really not giving you any money to do it right, or adequate money or adequately, but we're required to pay for it. And that goes under some of the uncontrollable costs that we see in the budget. It controls the budgets, right.
TEXT> And I'd just like just an example of that.  The  state reimbursement for special ed is set, I think, at a 95% by law and over costs of $70,000 per student. And  so when we look at that and we look at our costs, we can we think, we can assume to receive those monies in the next year's budget as reimbursement. However, the states just come out and said  that they don't have the money to pay with the 95%. It's going to be like 63%. And so, so 17, 95% reimbursement, anything over 70,000. We only get 63%. That's the local taxpayer who has to pay that difference. And so I just want voters to realize that that's beyond our control. Right.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. So how would. You like. To begin today? Would you folks like to make any statements about the insurance and statistically so we know. Yeah. So people out and

[R16215-39] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: the direction you're going. And so we're at the point now it's like, okay, you know, if we have to reduce the budget further, we will if we have to. But how is that going to affect our long term plan for Claremont students education?
TEXT> And the other thing is to I want can I talk a little bit about Esser funds and how they're impacting this budget? There were things that were in Esser, such as software packages and things of that nature.  The big one two is some out of district placements. We were able to write into Esser in that last year. That totaled around $600,000, that now,  if those students are still here, which I believe most of them are  coming into our budget. So, those are things that are also impacting it. But again, but I will say this much about us or they've given us, like, for instance, we just bought a batch of computers for half $1 million. We should be good for the next 3 to 5 years on computers because of Esser. So again, but we need to think about those things, knowing that in 3 or 5 years we're going to have to start cycling things out. So again, there's a lot of things within Esser that was paid for, you know, some curriculum, some  supplies, books.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Positions.

[R16215-51] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: Hardware.
TEXT> Hardware we're going to need  for students and teachers. And as everybody knows, you know, like you said, tech is huge. Is is a lot of times the backbone.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yes. If you look at if you look at technology, I mean, this is over the last ten, 15 years. It in some, some cases you can kind of gauge

[R16215-71] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: biggest increases. We had some staff changes which increased on the cost under the, paras and things of that nature. We also have added some pairs in that, weren't necessarily in last year's budget that are now in this year's budget because they were needed.
TEXT> And keep in mind that our  parish all, I believe looking at it all our powers are considered special powers except for, I believe, for district wide. So when we talk about powers and if they're increasing powers, usually that's typically because they're mandated by law to provide the services in the IEP. So they're unexpected costs. But if we have a kid come in from,  another district or something or, you know, tuition, we we still need to pay for those costs for those special ed services. So that's the powers are tied to IEP in this district okay.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think that's really important to note. And as I look at the numbers in the Bluff School section, the salaries for pairs in the health increases, that comes to

[R16215-170] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: And we're aware of where the money is.
TEXT> Okay. So one just before we move on, one fringe area that relates in this is a special ed concern with Perez. Covering is there's two prongs there. One is the fact that  IPS,  are not being met if the pair is covering the class. Right. And two, I know that if that  is working one on one  and it's a medicaid eligible student,  if that pair is not working with that student,  it's what we it's we're not able to collect reimbursements on that. So there's another interruption in cash flow that we haven't talked about.
NEXT> Mary Henry: That's a great that's a great point. Thank you Frank.

[R16215-187] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Wait for it. Because we've made the decision not to fund summer school at the elementary school as a cost savings. I think every one of.
TEXT> It's not even a cost savings. It's because we spent we paid for that out of Esser money. We were not. The district never paid for that. It was. So it's not like the district is saving money by not doing this. This was an added benefit program that was paid for by Esser dollars. So I want for folks who have kids in the elementary school who have never been in the district that didn't have summer school. We were not taking anything away. That was an added program, right? To  mitigate for the Covid response. Learning loss is a loss of instruction.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Got it. That's a very good clarifier. And the final point I have under this is a social worker, a full time social worker.

[R16215-192] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: a total of three social workers. One one. Works in the. Middle middle school, one works at a high school elementary. And we just recently hired one that works also with the elementary. So we have a total of three social workers for district wide.
TEXT> So there are three social workers for 2100 students. Well.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Just just right around there, we're just under I think we're around 19.

[R16215-194] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: Just just right around there, we're just under I think we're around 19.
TEXT> 1900, three social workers for 1900 students. And there's one for the middle school, one for the high school, and one that includes three elementary schools, as well as filling in other places as needed. That's correct. And so Disney was asking for  a full time social worker, which I think we could all understand the need. However, she each.
NEXT> Mary Henry: What Miss Lewis said is that every single principal for probably ten years has asked at the elementary school level that they feel one of the things that could improve

[R16215-196] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: the elementary school level that they feel one of the things that could improve outcomes the most and relieve a lot of burden for management of social issues, emotional issues and disciplinary issues is to have a social worker dedicated to each elementary school, right.
TEXT> So I'm going to like the Telegraph. Another question in advance. Don't need any answer right now to Mr. McCosker. So  the question would be, we haven't gotten into it yet because it manifests itself in the high school, in the middle school, out of district placements. And so the the question relating to social workers,  and the relationship of that to the socio emotional issues that cause kids to be placed out of district, would there possibly be a connection between having social workers in a reflection and not district placements? Would be.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Long term and long term cost saving?

[R16215-198] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: Long term and long term cost saving?
TEXT> Yeah. I just wondering if if, as the special ed director or Director of Student Services, you would see any potential,  reduction in one with the addition of the other.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: I can come back to you on that, right?

[R16215-305] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: Again, a pretty big jump.
TEXT> Yes, yes. This is this is a really big jump. And so we have 350 students at the middle school.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Now 200 and. 282 80.

[R16215-309] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: Two, 82, 80.
TEXT> Two, 80 students at the middle school. Yeah. Okay. We have. A an increase. This is an increase, folks of 1,000,005 at the, middle school,  currently and right now the the budget for the middle school is $4.5 million. This is a jump to 6 million. That's a big jump. That's a 33% increase. And and so I look to see where in heaven's name  do these increases come from? The first line I look at is the instructional salaries. And that's a mere increase of 168,000. So I say to myself, that's not it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is that you do staffers that just.

[R16215-377] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: The quality.
TEXT> Of the of the people who are, who are involved in their ability to, to, to modify student behavior and to at the but at the same time,  I run into people that are 45 years old that's still talk to me about the difference it made for them and their alternative program.  Still.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Stevens.

[R16215-402] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: So this million five increase is really in flux at the moment. Aspirational increase.
TEXT> So it would be and again I've, I've said this last year and I'll say it again, it would be helpful, for example, on the regular salaries to know how many people that is. Yes. And then we would know that there's 288 students there. And we could sort of surmise on our own what the class sizes are.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Because and that's when Chris has been working on, actually.

[R16215-412] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, there's less need for individualization. I would think so.
TEXT> And according to the new the at 306 New Hampshire administrative code in, in middle school and high school, there should be 30 students or fewer. So 30 I'm saying 30 is high. Yes. But yeah, 15, 17, 18 is is low.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's a wonderful situation for the teacher.

[R16215-415] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: But that's just so you know, it's clear there are some classes that go up as high as 2022. And so we're just basing it on the average.
TEXT> I guess I'm saying still, if the max is 30 and we're at half and some of these classes that the sweet spot is probably seven more per class. 2020, 22, you know, even with a challenging student population, you want you want to have slightly smaller class loads,  I think. But that's these are very reasonable class sizes. Okay. So I think there's lots of opportunities for flexibility in those classes. Right.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so the question so when I look at regular ed instruction salaries those are just teachers.

[R16215-426] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: The target group?
TEXT> Because for me, if the target group is our high achieving kids that don't really get a lot of stuff anyway, for me, $5,000 is a nominal amount to provide an opportunity in that environment.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. I mean, I would have to check with the principal and that, you know.

[R16215-432] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Heard low income and high poverty.
TEXT> Oh okay. Good enough for that then. How about the after school van? I've heard from  Mr. Romeo for a number of years that this is an ask, and I personally feel that this is an ass that's reasonable and helps kids not get into trouble.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's after school.

[R16215-434] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: It's after school.
TEXT> What  a  school. Transportation. So kids can stay after school for extra help. Kids can, you know, because that couldn't otherwise access opportunities after school because of transportation issues.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: He was fairly adamant about that. I mean.

[R16215-438] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Come up.
TEXT> A lot and I, you know, quite frankly, I remember when I was a kid because you said just stay after school, you could steal 6:00 until your mom picked you up like it was. And for some reason, I don't know why, but we don't do that anymore. Schools are not open anymore. After 6:00, I used to hang out in the library at 8:00 after practice, and we don't have open schools anymore, which I think is tragic. But it also limits opportunities for kids to access a lot of stuff. And it seems like a small thing to do for a big payoff. I don't know if I'm right or wrong about this or what the administration.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think it's just a matter of how do we make it happen? I think that, yeah, there's absolutely a high payoff because we want to take advantage of the

[R16215-441] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: back and where drop offs would be, you know, because normally. Right, because normally an after school bus doesn't like, do a full run, it picks a certain section and drops and drops. But so I don't know. So I'd have to look at that.
TEXT> But what I'm what I'm talking about is targeting seams. Because once a kid gets to high school, they hook up with people who've got driver's license. Like it's a whole different world once you get to high school. So there's a lot more access for kids to actually self-directed their transportation needs to their buddies for,  you know, somebody they're playing sports with. But for CMS, it's kind of a really weird age group. So we have a ten seat van that would not require us to have a driver that has a CDL license. What I would like to know from Mr. Romeo is if we're looking at ten kids or if we could cycle that van transporting kids locally,
NEXT> Mary Henry: It's a possibility. Heather. I will just have to look at costs. If we had someone drive it, I mean, I honestly, it shouldn't be that expensive.

[R16215-443] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: It's a possibility. Heather. I will just have to look at costs. If we had someone drive it, I mean, I honestly, it shouldn't be that expensive.
TEXT> It would be a teacher who we could stipend. Yeah.  For a nominal amount of money who's invested in these kind of activities so we could be moving 20 kids an afternoon if we did a two run situation. Okay. I mean, it can't be any more than a 30 minute run to drop any kid off. So we could do a 220 kid. Am I crazy?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: No.

[R16215-448] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: And honestly, I think if, if that's the case, you're probably looking at maybe 20,000. You're not looking at a lot of money, maybe not. And that's just a rough guess if it's a daily thing every day. So.
TEXT> For asking the principal to be making big cuts, but this could be a  thing that has been asked for a lot and has a lot of benefit to a lot of kids who probably need it. Sure. I don't know, I mean, what am I, crazy? Am I? No. Tell me what I mean. I don't want to just be throwing money at something that doesn't make any sense.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: But I think that that money well spent. Exactly. Because a lot of these kids like.

[R16215-451] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: Them off the streets.
TEXT> Exactly. And we know meeting with the city and stuff, a lot of, you know, we do have kids who, if they were in after school program, they may not be doing whatever they shouldn't be doing after school, but didn't get a straight down.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: To that. Yeah, that's a different story, right? Right. All right.

[R16215-455] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah, I think that's really I would. Yeah, it's really important, I think.
TEXT> Yeah. Not a problem. And I do think it is a good idea because a lot of kids don't do sports. They don't do a lot of things.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That is so important, that level. Oh yes. And they have a lot of different. Yeah. Right. They have a lot of great clubs over. It seems so. Okay. Thank

[R16215-458] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So I'm, Again.
TEXT> Middle school is to be determined.  So I'm moving on to the high school, and, and so at the high school, we have how many students? Just shy of 500. Isn't it?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Think it's under five, but it's around five.

[R16215-463] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's the truth.
TEXT> I inherited this mess. I mean, these some some of the increase,  in that tuition line is kids who are in the eighth grade. You're going to be in the ninth grade next year, right?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Except I didn't see an increase at the middle school. No, but they moved. They're moving in. That means somebody filled in. They came out of us, though, and moved

[R16215-467] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: So high school.
TEXT> So high school is inheriting the prior middle school students are out of district.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And the middle school was covered by her. That's my the right. Correct.

[R16215-469] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: And the middle school was covered by her. That's my the right. Correct.
TEXT> Part of that million five. We've we've got one in probably that 150 or the 87,000 increase in transportation. We've got one kid who's out of district in Connecticut. The school she is at is at the tune of.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: 20. 5000 a month.

[R16215-479] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mike McCosker: Because those are always moving targets. So.
TEXT> So so what I hear you saying out of that and $1 million budget at the high school, one student is 300. Well. First of the 11 million, we've got 4 million for  special ed. At least that's a minimum.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: For out of district. Yes. Yes, that's the number.

[R16215-508] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: Behavior, I think yeah.
TEXT> And that's that's for, that's for a program that we're trying to go to, to work to, like, we're talking about the social emotional behavior and stuff. Yeah. That's that's a program that we used  in a previous district when we worked together that helps us work with the teachers and students, lacking the amount of social workers we have and stuff. It ties into restorative practices. It's it's it's train teachers how to work with difficult students. It's it's pretty much a program that we adopt and we get trained in. Okay. Yep.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And and so is there any money in this budget for that?

[R16215-516] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: 33.
TEXT> 33 teachers that didn't go through the typical college for education. They're coming from different areas. So that's exactly right. We're trying to provide them what they need to be successful. But you know, current teachers with the with the change in behaviors that we've seen in kids in the last 5 to 7 years, it's just a necessity of listening to the teachers and say, we need something more in regards to preparing ourselves, whether we been here for a while or not. So it's it's it's a it's a great program. We've seen great results for it, but it ties a lot of things into it. Like we're still to practices in that strategic plan.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So thank you.

[R16215-518] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: So thank you.
TEXT> All right. Yep. I didn't have any other questions about the high school.  I move on to the tech center if everyone okay. So I'm moving on to the tech center. And here's a real shock.  So this budget,  there are about 125 students, I think, served at the tech center.
NEXT> Mary Henry: I don't know the answer to that.

[R16215-520] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: I don't know the answer to that.
TEXT> I'm pretty sure that's correct. I met with them since that, since I happen to be the chair of the vision and subcommittee of the board.  Earlier this week, I had about a two hour meeting with the Tech center director,  Michelle Harrington.  And I have to say, it was an excellent discussion, and  I'm pretty sure those numbers are accurate. They're in six programs, as well as introductory programs that they have that are, nine week, one quarter courses,  that rotate. They are there for a quarter, and then the next quarter it's a different set of students and a different center. So you have four, four groups that that,  rotate through the year.  And  that that program has really the tech center has really rejuvenated, one of the new programs this year was the medical tech person. Medical assistant. Right. Thank you. They have five people in the program for year one next year. Those people will move on to year two, and we'll have a new group come in for year one. They are looking at,  introducing an intro course in  teacher prep teaching. Yep. And  I am delighted to hear that  Miss Harrington and Mr. Pratt met with Newport.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Again, one of the results of the study was that's going to be better integration with Newport. I'm encouraged to hear that they meet and see how the two programs

[R16215-523] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: do that. We're not ready for that for this year. That would be looking to another year. And there's some indication from the State Department that. They would be open to putting that off for a year in the rotation. So give me a minute.
TEXT> And some of the programs that we meet with the architects on a on the monthly basis stuff. And so some of the programs that, you know, we looked at the, the, the, the plan that was produced by the visiting committee is that yet? Teaching was one of them. So I think we have a solid plan moving forward with the tech center to the Newport Tech Center. The other thing is we're looking at is possibly a law enforcement program and possibly a small engine repair program as well.  So and that's so when we meet with the silicon, okay. These are the programs you want to offer. How does it meet the needs of your current space, and what it would look like if you had to add on more space? So we're in the process of working through that. But Michelle and I are really working with the architects and Newport to make sure, one, we complement each tech center, but we're listening to the to the visioning Committee and offering some programs here that kids would really benefit from, and it would bring them in. So there's a lot of moving parts right now, but I think we're we're moving forward.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm just going to.

[R16215-531] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: I can tell you that.
TEXT> Well, it. Is it the student services? Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So it's the career counselor that was hired. Okay. That, that the Vision Committee has been talking about for a long time. And she was hired, in September, and she's

[R16215-533] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: seen is there are a number of students, let's say they get 15 students in the year one programs, but then that drops off to to like six in year two because they weren't really committed to the program and they didn't have the knowledge.
TEXT> And so with this interview process, you're screening students so that the 15 you have in year one are really, dedicated to the technical program. And so that you have year two, you have 12 students, not six students. So again, it's build your of staff and and and program and you deliver more students.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Of success.

[R16215-536] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right, right.
TEXT> So so additionally what again I'm basing what my own experience has been with that type of, of model, which I liked that a lot. Yeah.  And, but I wondering if there's one more step and then the next step would be, often,  we don't get kids who do have a high level of interest in level one.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's why they're doing it.

[R16215-548] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: For years.
TEXT> For years and options to expand pre-K and make it universal because one of the issues has been  a lack of access and parity.  For  all kids of pre-K age. To access programing in Claremont, and that  we had no taste for that expansion over our last few budget. Cycles. The community has had no interest in that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We had asked for data on a couple of different situations.

[R16215-559] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: Clarifying that.
TEXT> They have. This. Table is so,  in the past budget cycles and with previous administrations, there has been  toying with the idea of offering universal pre-K to traditional students. Currently, as our pre-K program exists today, the pre-K program only exists to serve, special needs students or kids that have.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's that's the only.

[R16215-563] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: It was after the other program was discontinued. So I'm going to say 16, 17, 18.
TEXT> So there was an experiment. Quite frankly, it was an experiment that was put forth to see if we could offer pre-K services to that limited student population in a more effective, cost effective, and educationally effective way to meet our mandated need.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Because federally, we had, prior to actually having our own program, we had engaged in push in services with the local daycares and Head Start. So kids that were there

[R16215-564] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there was an experiment. Quite frankly, it was an experiment that was put forth to see if we could offer pre-K services to that limited student population in a more effective, cost effective, and educationally effective way to meet our mandated need.
TEXT> Because federally, we had,  prior to actually having our own program, we had engaged in push in services with the local daycares and Head Start. So kids that were there who had.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: These needs.

[R16215-571] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: At first, second and third.
TEXT> First, second and third. So in reality, the model students were performing below their peers that did not attend the Claremont Preschool Program. The non model students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: May have attended pre-K or private school, or not have attended.

[R16215-575] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: At all. Any at all.
TEXT> Any at all. So the take home message there was that the model students were not actually receiving an academic benefit from attending our program. Now, that could very well be because the program is designed for them. They are actually used as to elevate the,  the nontraditional students or the non model students academic achievement. So  my question really is,  we're not required to provide this standalone service in Claremont per RSA one six C semicolon 3-A, we are required to provide the pushing services that Frank was mentioning. We currently spend in salaries alone close to $450,000. How many paraprofessionals are roughly.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: That number?

[R16215-602] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mike McCosker: Spoken morning, afternoon.
TEXT> So so roughly three hours a day. Okay, so I'm just doing the math here. So. And that's 12 hours a week. I want to know the cost per kid compared to our traditional student. So we have a traditional. So I'm thinking we're paying $50,000 a year for four hours three hours a day, four days a week for 12 hours a week. We're paying roughly 50,000 for the school year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are you including related services in that number?

[R16215-604] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are you including related services in that number?
TEXT> No no no no no. And and we're not achieving the goals that we set out. Well we're. We're certainly not helping the non the model students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right.

[R16215-608] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Are not benefiting from the.
TEXT> Academically right and a longitudinal model in longitudinal way. So when I was kind of parsing this out, I like the level of horror that I was feeling was pretty profound that we if I'm not wrong, we're like, we're spending almost $50,000 per student.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yeah. And I would have to look at the other services just for general.

[R16215-612] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Mary Henry: Okay.
TEXT> Okay. So this is what I'm like. This is what I'm looking at I'm like we are we are paying $50,000 per 20 students that we are required to serve, that we would not have to be paying because all the pushing services that we are required by our  RSA are already wrapped into.
NEXT> Mary Henry: The. Different lines.

[R16215-621] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Exactly.
TEXT> But we have this very large budget. We are we are we are not meeting our state required RSA required needs of multiple students in our district because we cannot get the staff to fill those positions. Why in God's green earth are we doing this?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think that's a rhetorical question.

[R16215-627] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: So you're asking the administration. And and the costs related to preschool, the cost of about 450,000. And get back to literally.
TEXT> Have the resources in our budget. We have the bodies here. We have the capable staff who have the certification to meet the needs of kids with IEPs that are elementary school, yada, yada, yada. We have a a deficit of six professionals right now, so we have kids in our district that are not receiving required services, although we have resources.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so another related question I think would be and again from Mike and unfortunately McCosker is that and for you, Mary, I think is the, the related services people

[R16215-642] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: throughout their entire elementary school career. Then if we were able to use the resources that are being attached to the preschool program and shifted them into the elementary school so they would get more robust and appropriate support over a longer period of time.
TEXT> With the smart utilization of the resources, then our current model. So I did think about that because as a mom, I would be it would be really upsetting to me to have a vision in my head of how my children were going to receive their their services in their preschool years. But I think looking at the big picture, my child would be getting more resources over a longer period of time instead of perhaps getting minimal or substandard resources over a longer period of time. So that's all I have to say about that.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So yes.

[R16215-657] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: the administration to go back and say, if we did not have this program at the $450,000 costs we have now, look at, what are you looking at, getting rid of the program and reallocating not just the people, but the funds tied to that?
TEXT> I don't think the funds would. We could actually reduce the funds because we have 6%. We have vacant positions that we are  currently budgeting for. So we wouldn't need I would I would absolutely say no reduction like this is not a staff reduction. It's we are failing to meet the needs of kids that have I right now every day for and this this failure has extended over years.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And and and to the point we know in this budget in other sections where it's especially special.

[R16215-671] Heather Whitney | Finance Committee member; School Board Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Can we get the best.
TEXT> We have three collective bargaining agreements that are going to be right to one's going to be built into the budget. The teachers we desperately want our paraprofessionals warrant article to pass once it's brought forward, because the board has and the administrative team has identified that our is at the lower, actually at the lower years of their scale or their lower steps are inadequately paid. We don't want to be cutting programs. We don't want to cut programs. We don't want to cut teachers. We're heading in the right direction, but we are going down what this budget is like this pushing that boulder up the hill. And and we need social workers. We have a  myriad of other areas where all students in the district would benefit. And right now  we have 20 students that are could get all of these services elsewhere. At no cost to us.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think. I think the administration has an idea.

[R16215-687] Frank Sprague | Finance Committee Chair; School Board Vice Chair | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: Is the academy. That's the academy that's here at the tech center.
TEXT> So what is the what is the purpose of this program? Is it, is it a high school dropout prevention program? Is it a behavioral program? Does it does it prevent kids from being sent out of district? What is it?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think it's a little bit of all of the above. Frank, I think what you're looking at, we have, you know, kids, the kids in the showtime that we've

[R16215-689] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-12-13
PREV> Chris Pratt: of like we got the, you know, you know, we're only talking about, I think 12 kids that are in the program right now. And it was a small amount of kids because we want to gather the data to see how well it's working.
TEXT> And if you know, if it's something we should move forward with. But for all indications that we see, you know, we've been very impressed with the results that we're getting from the Academy program, and that's why we want to continue to build on it. And right now it is just a high school. We just have high school kids going there. But hopefully moving forward with the new alternative program, it's going to be at eight through 12.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So how many are there? Several. Paris there in that there.

[R16215-713] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Related services. Right now.
TEXT> Also there is a section, an additional section this year because we have some ESL. We have I think they said what  7 to 12 students that are English as a second language who come in to say thank.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You, an increase of an increase of, I think 12 this year, 12, 13.

[R16215-715] Candace Crawford | Finance Committee member; Capital Improvements chair; SRVRTC Visioning | 2024-12-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: You, an increase of an increase of, I think 12 this year, 12, 13.
TEXT> 30 students overall, but an increase of about 12 students. English is the second language and there are some related increase in cost because of that. About
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mine is that candy?

[R16222-2] Mimi Rhines | SCHOOL COUNSELOR, Stevens High School, and SUMMER SCHOOL COORDINATOR - | 2024-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: is a policy policy BEED that is also available for viewing. As far as our more the fine. The final points of our limitations of the citizens. Comments. Is there anybody in our audience that would like to come speak to citizens comments Miss Ryan?
TEXT> Hi guys. Mimi Ryan's Ward one. Full disclosure I am the school counselor at the high school and I'm a summer school coordinator, but I making my comments in this segment as a citizen just so we can kind of have that separated. I'll be up here later for other school stuff.  I was encouraged by another citizen to watch the CCTV recording of the Budget Finance Committee meeting that was recorded on December 13th. I very much appreciate that. A it was recorded for the public to see and be the format of going through each school's budget. I think it's a great way for myself and other citizens to get a full picture of where the budget money goes when it comes to each school. I'm here to talk about a decision that was referenced in the high school portion, which is to not fund summer school. As a citizen, I have seen the board's main focus over the last several years when it comes to the high school, be the graduation rate. Given that it seems counterintuitive to decide not to fund a program that helps to get kids back on track and keep them on track for graduation. As a citizen, I can completely understand that the $30,000 cost, which was the quote given in the CCTV recording,  is a cost of a lot, especially since it was previously funded by Esser funds, as the board has publicly said.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: However, also, as a citizen, I feel strongly that this is an important option for the high schoolers to have, and I know that families and students have come to

[R16222-3] Mimi Rhines | SCHOOL COUNSELOR, Stevens High School, and SUMMER SCHOOL COORDINATOR - | 2024-12-18
PREV> Mimi Rhines: on track for graduation. As a citizen, I can completely understand that the $30,000 cost, which was the quote given in the CCTV recording, is a cost of a lot, especially since it was previously funded by Esser funds, as the board has publicly said.
TEXT> However, also, as a citizen, I feel strongly that this is an important option for the high schoolers to have, and I know that families and students have come to expect summer school since it has been happening at the high school level for several years. As a citizen, I am disappointed that the board does not see the value in the program, especially since overall $30,000 is not seem like that much money to be in the budget, which, as the public summer school presentation earlier this year show goes to staffing eight teachers, one coordinator, especially after hearing various other costs around the district that were shared on the CCTV recording. I'm hopeful that the high school administration at the Saw will find a way to fund this extremely important program so that we as a community, can continue to see the high school graduation rate increase, continue to offer opportunities to our high school students. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: First item on our agenda is the superintendent's report, Mr. Pratt.

[R16222-8] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - permanent, not interim (announced ~ | 2024-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's great. That's great. Fantastic.
TEXT> So this is the first one that's been completed.  There are various areas. I think they highlight most of the schools.  Some of the programs and, but we put them out like this so we can use them.  Outside of the,  Claremont Chamber of Commerce, we can use it for promotional. We can use it for recruiting. We can just have it out there. So this is just like the first installment of of many others that they completed. So I just wanted to share that with all of you.  The students were asked students. The driver was our driver. So  it's exciting to see this evolve and develop.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They weren't paid for this. Advertisement. Just kidding. You were not paid actors.

[R16222-25] Mimi Rhines | SCHOOL COUNSELOR, Stevens High School, and SUMMER SCHOOL COORDINATOR - | 2024-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: It was a lab science.
TEXT> Yeah, that was in there last year. So if a kid, needs, like, for scholars, you need three, three sciences. They have to take chemistry for it. But for their fourth one, there's  options they can take.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So that allows them to use.

[R16222-38] Mimi Rhines | SCHOOL COUNSELOR, Stevens High School, and SUMMER SCHOOL COORDINATOR - | 2024-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: I just had one other question about transparency on reading lists. Yeah. For Ela courses or English courses? Yeah. So how are parents, brought into that kind of conversation.
TEXT> So I don't want to speak for the English department. And because if I, if I say something wrong there to be happy with me. But my understanding is the syllabus could sent home at the beginning of the year. And that lists what they'll be reading. Mike, you know, because you have kids at the high school right now.  And it kind of says, you know, the units and with the reading. And I believe if a parent has a concern with a book, the teacher could offer an alternative assignment to them.  A few times, I know we've had parents be concerned. And then after conversations with teachers like, oh, that's why you're reading this. Okay, that makes sense. But the English Permanent has multiple books for each grade level in each course. So if there is a significant concern that can't be solved after conversations with teachers and admin and whoever, I believe they there are alternative books. They can.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So the process is, is that the syllabus is are sent home for parents to review.

[R16222-66] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School. CHAIR'S RECOGNITION BY FULL NAME: 'Nex | 2024-12-18
PREV> Michael Herrington: Okay. There are pros and cons to the schedule. When it was looked at for two years, it was considered for our students right now. We thought the period schedule would be the best fit. And that's why we went and moved forward with that.
TEXT> Before jumping into this, I will tell you my own opinions from walking through. I try and get to every classroom twice a day. Don't always make it, but I'm in there a lot. The students are much more engaged for the entire class, period. Not every student. Okay. There are some students that are not.  There are some students that are still trying to find their way out of the classroom. But I will say, by and large, the students are much more engaged in learning. With that said,  I interviewed every. I put it out there for a couple of weeks. I interviewed every teacher I could, everyone. I did not mandate it. I offered an invite. I wrote down,  and in 17 interviews  I wrote down verbatim what they said. And then I spent  a long weekend going through and coding and looking for themes. Right. And what I'm looking for are the salient items that pop up in the majority of  the interviews in the package that you have, which is not up here. You have a box after each interview and the upper right hand corner of that box.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Okay. It's going to have a number, and it's how that number is. Actually it's not the the one that's out of 17. It's how many teachers mentioned that out

[R16222-80] Michael Petrin | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER - 1.08 s onset clipped into Frank Spragu | 2024-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Anything from you, Mike?
TEXT> Just I. Appreciate everything you've done and everything you teachers are doing at the school. In the hard work they put in.  The thought of moving to teaching five classes is that what does that change as far as what the student does that change the class size or the more kids to you? Because if they're teaching six classes now, you take away classified teaching.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Right. So so what ends up happening is and we knew this when the schedule right is when they, the class sizes went down this year because you're teaching so

[R16222-84] Michael Petrin | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (returned as a write-in, seated 3/20/202 | 2024-12-18
PREV> Michael Herrington: No, it won't be a huge jump.
TEXT> So, kids. So if I wanted to take just English, you know, an English course, it's still going to be if you have 50 slots right now, those slots are still going to be 50 slots open just spread over five. There is a set of six.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So. Right. So so you talk about, you know you're going to have the same amount of English. You know, you maybe one less English, but you just take that

[R16222-86] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - permanent, not interim (announced ~ | 2024-12-18
PREV> Michael Herrington: Right. So so you talk about, you know you're going to have the same amount of English. You know, you maybe one less English, but you just take that one class and you're putting it between six classes or seven classes or six classes. Right.
TEXT> And I think another thing to to know is that it's, the the schedule is built on student requests. So if, you know, if you have more students requests in a class, that means it just means that there's more sections created. And, you know, so it's it's not, the student the student requests are what drive the, the schedule and when the courses are rather than we're putting in the courses and saying, you got to find a place.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. This is great.

[R16222-113] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2024-12-18
PREV> Mary Henry: things in. So that had an impact on tax rates. That's for another whole presentation. But the Doe changes inadequacy aid. Again as you can see there's spikes because in 21 they are 2122 they changed the amount you had to raise for swap tax.
TEXT> They almost cut it in half, which again was great because your adequacy aid went up, but it went right back down the next year because they it was a one time deal and it changed. So that's how much adequacy aid can impact your overall amount that your assessment value is and that you're collecting. And if you keep going this year, I put in the estimated revenues for 2026 because I thought this was important for people to see that fiscal year 25 was 14 million. This year it's going to be or 26 would be. 16 million is what they're estimating for our  our our  adequacy aid. That's a $1.9 million jump that has to do specifically with the extraordinary grant that and that's what it's called that sits within adequacy aid. This is based on free and reduced. They increase the amount  it used to be right around eight 8600 per kid to 11,500 a kid. That's where the jump happened. It isn't the ATM or the number of students you have. It really comes down to that extraordinary grant. This was, again, another way for them to put money into adequacy aid, to give it to the towns that have a higher, obviously free and reduced population. And Claremont would be one of those towns.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So now I'm looking at the change in tax assessment versus the change inadequacy. Aid your assessments in blue. Your adequacy aid is in orange. You can see the dips.

[R16222-137] Candace Crawford | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: of this letter is to just ask for help at the state level, to help us with our funding. We've spent the evening talking about how our expenses are, and we need we need help from the state and the the state Supreme Court said.
TEXT> We are justified in that. And so this is just asking the  state senator to consider that and, to increase the  adequacy aid payment from 4100 to 7300 per pupil. And so  I was wondering if the school board as a group, would be interested in supporting this. We are we are advocates for public education, and  I think we're advocates to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Taxpayers.

[R16226-2] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 - MERGED CLUSTER: also carries Frank Sprague's o | 2024-12-18
PREV> Unidentified: different from this budget as to what we saw when the last we met. Okay. Yeah, I can I'll I'll stop before handing it over to Mary Henry, business administrator. Is that what you'll see here? There are some significant cuts from the middle school.
TEXT> We're we're still looking at the the out of district placement in regards to where we stand.  But I think based on what we're proposing night right now, the the budget, as you can still see, is still up, but based on what we have to work with,  as educators, we've made all the recommendations we feel that we could make based on moving forward in regards to educating the the students in Claremont. So I'll hand it over to Miss Henry in regards to  any specifics that are tied to this new version of the budget.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So I went through the budget again and went down through it, and I did I did take out pre-K because you guys had talked about that. So I took

[R16226-37] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - named pres | 2024-12-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: So is that that is strictly what the taxpayer part is. That's identified specifically as.
TEXT> Right, specifically pre-K. We need to go through those other ones to see if they're needed. Because honestly, if we're going to, we still have to service kids. So I'm not sure how much of that. And Mike McCusker needs to know.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: About the related services.

[R16226-100] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - named pres | 2024-12-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah. So.
TEXT> I mean, just to look at. I know you said that about adequacy, but I, I really would like to just kind of go through with you where the changes in adequacy were this year, if you don't mind. So you know what they are. Yeah.  Which I think would probably benefit you in trying to figure that portion out. Hang on. Here it is. It's 25025256 estimate. It's hard to see on a small laptop. It's part of it. There it is. Okay. So,  the main increases for this was in your,  free and reduced grant. They increase the sliding scale per pupil on the extraordinary grant that they have out here, which,  went from like 8500 to 11,500. Again, this is just a way of them trying to find ways to to boost it without, I mean, without boosting it in other areas. The other thing,  the statewide education property tax dropped for you guys as well. You are raising less than what you would be raising this year.  It's not a lot, but it's $100,000.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Please say that again.

[R16226-106] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - named pres | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. So because your equalized valuations starting to come back  line. So the main thing was in free and reduced. It was not in your number of students.  Number of students are roughly about the same. We didn't have a huge drop in your ADM from year to year. I will just get I think I got fiscal year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So you're saying they're reimbursing us at a higher rate? They are increase the the eligibility.

[R16226-329] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 - named present in the chair's ope | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: So a follow up to that. Is there any ability to reassess some of these out of district placements to see if, if the need is still that great? I mean, I don't know whether there's an annual reassessment of each case.
TEXT> Part of every annual IEP process placement has talked about. So it's always talked about with the IEP team.  And since Jessica has gotten on the job as the out of district coordinator, one of the things she's doing very carefully is looking at every student to see if we can service them in district, right, rather than out of district. So we're we're working diligently to that end. And, you know, Mr. Sprague asks an important question, you know, how did this happen? And I sit here and I don't know how it happened, but I can tell you the process going forward. We are pushing back when we get the email or the phone call. Hey, this kid is what are you doing? What is the process?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to say. My disclaimer. I say again, this predates the sitting over here. I just want to make sure the public is aware of that, that that I

[R16226-331] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 - named present in the chair's ope | 2024-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm going to say. My disclaimer. I say again, this predates the sitting over here. I just want to make sure the public is aware of that, that that I am when I'm slinging this, I'm not slinging it.
TEXT> And I'm not right. And I'm not taking it personally. It's, I mean, but it's it's a, it's a giant mountain that we have is a district with a number of kids who are out in the amount of money it's costing this district.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Did I see a number of like, $80,000 for a district to a transportation?

[R16226-339] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 - MERGED CLUSTER: also carries Frank Sprague's o | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right. It's just the transportation has gone up, gone up.
TEXT> Right. And and I think you guys know me well enough to do that, you know, you know that even my team were we're pushing back you know. You know we're going to make the stand that if, you know, if someone is asking for out of district placement, unless they can and a lot of it is like, well, until you can start attending school, the school that is provided for you. Why should we even look at a district? How do we know what we're trying to do is working if they're not coming to school? And I think we're going to we're going to stand on that. We might get pushed back from debris of angles, but I think we have to look at that, because how can you prove that. If it how can you value it? A person and we got to put them out of district not attending. And a lot of times, you know, kids have been putting out of district placement in the same thing happens. We're paying for them not to attend.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right. You mean out of district? We're paying and they don't go.

[R16226-342] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member; Capital Impro | 2024-12-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: So that's in my point. Me and my team will push them back and saying moving forward, if attendance is a problem, that's what we're going to take care of first. Before looking at a district, rather than just saying, we're going to put you.
TEXT> At what point can you reevaluate that and say, for the past month, this child has not. It's bailed themselves of the out of district.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Service, and I think the current administration are dealing with on a daily basis. And we're looking at that.

[R16226-347] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 - named present in the chair's ope | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: But you don't have to have a ton to make it.
TEXT> We're dealing with it like you have this student out of district. They're not going we're pulling the team together because we're not spending that money. I mean, good, yeah. Look, I don't live in Claremont, but I live somewhere, and it's unconscionable as a taxpayer, somewhere, to know that you're spending money for a student to be in a school that they need to be in, but they're not going.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Exactly.

[R16226-353] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member; Capital Impro | 2024-12-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: Why? Making a report to DC wife.
TEXT> That a student isn't in school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's educational neglect.

[R16226-359] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Go ahead?
TEXT> So following up on I have this out of the box kind of thought,  it's clear that we have an issue with special education in our district. What my experience has been from past boards and from what I've learned in the past, is that one of the issues in Claremont is we haven't captured these students  early enough, that we haven't pushed in the services, that they haven't they haven't received the sports. We've heard this from the elementary schools.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is that true?

[R16226-368] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: that I was there three years after I left, was working with 1 or 2 special educators when there should have been three. So, you know, there's a trickle down effect on everything. You know, you don't have people. You're not providing everything that's needed.
TEXT> I just  follow my thought through here. No. So we we know we have a special education problem in Claremont. We know that we also heard from every elementary school principal that they feel it would be a benefit to have a social worker in every school. Currently we have,  student service coordinators in our elementary schools. I see the student service coordinators as a workaround. This is my personal opinion.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think this one at the middle school as well.

[R16226-382] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: And perhaps use Esser funds to do so.
TEXT> Or use Esser funds to do so. Correct. So what I would like to consider seeing that, the folks in those positions or those positions hold salaries that are often at administrative levels, and I don't know what they do. Could we consider,  instead of having student service coordinators at the elementary school budget social workers instead, or  school counselors, and I think there would be an additional cost savings,  attached to that. So we would get a bigger bang for our buck, because right now, I don't really know what these coordinators do.  What the value is, because if it's an administrative position, then it's not meeting Ed 306 requirements for an additional administrative position. It's a work in my opinion. It's a workaround for an administrative position that doesn't meet minimum standard requirements. And if the need really is supportive services and supporting kids and families, and if that would help with behaviors and school management. Overall, I can see that being  an improving learning  opportunity as well.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Particularly in light of the fact that each each elementary school principal said they wish they had.

[R16226-388] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 - MERGED CLUSTER: also carries Frank Sprague's o | 2024-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: so that was that was the intent. What what it is now, I can't say, but I can talk about talk about what the original intent was, and that was to give building level leadership the opportunity to be instructional leaders. That was the intent.
TEXT> And I think, you know, I think some of the intentions still there is that, you know, the student service coordinators, you know, are dealing with, you know, discipline issues or crisis issues and stuff, similar to what councils and social workers to do. But I also know that with the change in time, that that's the role of an administrator. And we just  gone to the days that we were allowed to put people in those positions who don't carry the certification level as a principal or assistant principal, because the liability, you know, your certification, you know, covers you for that liability. You can make certain decisions based on your administrator, your education and your experience and your certification. So I think at one point that work. But with the change in how we're expected to do things now,  you know, you know, the technically, you know, we we can't have, non certified administrators dealing with, a lot of the stuff that they're expected to deal with. Now.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are these school counselors, certified administrators?

[R16226-391] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Unidentified: No, no.
TEXT> So I guess what I'm asking the administrative team is if what Frank is saying is true, which I believe it is, is that these student service  coordinators, on some level manage behavior issues. Would a social worker in a position in a school based position within their roles and responsibilities, within their job description? Would they also be able to take on the task of managing those low level discipline issues, but by extension, be able to push more effectively out into the community, connect people up with resources, and create family connections on a level because that's their skill set. Or do I have it wrong?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: No. I think that's more of a proactive approach rather than the reactive approach that we're we have set up.

[R16226-402] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 - named present in the chair's ope | 2024-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Can I get Mike just jump in quickly.
TEXT> What one one of the  aspects of the work that we test them with, though, and you need to be aware of as you think of this is the point of contact student Service coordinator, whatever we call them. Also, Leah, any special ed meeting.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What does that mean?

[R16226-405] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: L a are the people who are tasked with fiduciary responsibility at an IEP meeting. Yes, we can do this. No, we cannot do this. So they're the ones who are signing off in those meetings that we can we can implement this IEP.
TEXT> You mean the student service coordinators are doing that?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yes.

[R16226-414] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> So let me ask you this too. So  I know that,  do the social workers currently work year round? One one does. So what is so currently we have in these these student service positions. My understanding is and correct me, disabuse me of this understanding if I'm wrong, is that their contracts are 185 plus ten.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That sounds about right.

[R16226-420] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - introduced b | 2024-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: I think it makes a lot of sense. And I would I would encourage the administration to look into that possibility. So I mean, if you think it's.
TEXT> I mean, for 185, 185, ten versus year round, and we'd be paying and the salary would be roughly at the top end, 10,000, 30,000 saving in salary. Then, you know, just salary alone. And getting year round coverage for kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It sounds like it would provide the services most needed.

