[R8433-202] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Oh.
TEXT> Tonight is, we have some new members is to sort of bring everybody up to speed on what are efforts. In the past, well over a year have been and trying to look at this, this issue. So there are three separate handouts that you got. One, we're going to go over some some of the numbers. We're going to go over, what the plan is. What, what our efforts have been and, and your other handout is on, you know, way back when, a, over a year ago, we had a discussion about, the yellow house  down on the corner next to the high school. So we're going to, we're going to sort of cover all of those things. So I think the first place I'd like to go is this handout right here. Out of district costs. And sort of walk you through through this page. When I came into this role July 1st, it there are several different factors that that were having an effect on the budget for this year. There were, if you look at the third bullet down there were for students who, as of July 1st last year, went to out of district placement.
NEXT> Chris: There had been changed in the in the spring and they, they, they were on their way. And so there was a gap between when the budget was being developed

[R8433-207] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: Yeah, I don't like that either. So.
TEXT> Is there anything in system or in the way that when they move here from another district, that for the first year that district covers, or that we have something in place to work with other districts so that we can say, listen, if this kid's coming in and we can provide for them or we can't, or let's say we can't provide for them, and they still have to go out of,  out of  out of the system. Are we. Is there something set up that can, can create like a net so that the taxpayers or the school system is not responsible for hundreds of thousands of dollars?
NEXT> Chris: I think when it, when it comes to this, it's we become the district of liability. That is the law.

[R8433-212] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So there's nothing that truly can be done unless we look at going and fighting it through legislation.
TEXT> Correct. And that's that has to do with Ida. That has to do with special ed law, that has to do with providing a free and appropriate public education. I can tell you one thing. It gets it gets a little trickier when you have multiple agencies that are involved in some of these decisions, such as the courts such as DC, if if a, if DC, if is involved with a family and then decides that they're going to remove that child from the home, and then they ultimately get placed a move from here to Newport, and they could they could be transient in a way where DC f they have moved maybe to a couple three different districts,  or DC has moved them to a couple of different towns over the over a couple of years. And then what makes it a little trickier is if the parent leaves Claremont and once the parent leaves Claremont, if the if the parent jumps to Newport or to Manchester or somewhere, and then it gets a real convoluted. So we just had this, this issue come up about a month ago where we have a student who  was removed by DC a couple of years ago, who  ultimately got placed, and the parent has moved several places.
NEXT> Chris: And so we had to have our special ed attorney really dig into who is who is ultimately the district of liability here. And after doing all of the research,

[R8433-213] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: then it gets a real convoluted. So we just had this, this issue come up about a month ago where we have a student who was removed by DC a couple of years ago, who ultimately got placed, and the parent has moved several places.
TEXT> And so  we had to have our special ed attorney really dig into who is who is ultimately the district of liability here. And after doing all of the research,  you know, in a note coming back that Claremont continues to be the district of liability. So there's, there's there's lots of different factors that are, that are involved. But ultimately, if if a child is removed from from the home by DC F and has had the parent has had custodial rights sort of taken away and given guardianship to somewhere else, it is the last district that had that student who  ultimately becomes the district of liability all the way through. So some of these things can be tricky, especially when a parent moves from town to town to town. And how do you sort of, you know, keep, keep track of all that can get pretty tricky.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And then you have the one with the one student who was pleased by the courts for 25,000. That means the court said, that that child was going to go

[R8433-214] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: the district of liability all the way through. So some of these things can be tricky, especially when a parent moves from town to town to town. And how do you sort of, you know, keep, keep track of all that can get pretty tricky.
TEXT> And then you have the one with the one student who was pleased by the courts for 25,000. That means the court said, that that child was going to go to a special schooling system that was out of district, obviously.
NEXT> Chris: Correct. So if a court places, if a court places a, a kiddo somewhere, we'll say if it's a residential setting, a a court will then be responsible for the

[R8433-216] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: So if a court places, if a court places a, a kiddo somewhere, we'll say if it's a residential setting, a a court will then be responsible for the rest costs. And then we, being the district of liability, are responsible for the educational costs.
TEXT> So this is just the educational cost to the one child to be placed.
NEXT> Chris: Correct.

[R8433-230] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Well that's no that's the education that our total expenses for transportation, if it's a transportation, in most cases it's just a placement would be capped at that. But that's the only cap on any of this stuff that exists. That's the court place cap.
TEXT> Is there a ways to look at capping some of the other stuff for the outer, even though we're liable? I mean, is there something that can be championed or somewhere to start for, for anyone to be able to start, you know, looking and saying, listen, you're you're squashing your taxpayers, you're squashing the people, you're squashing, you know, your school system with, with these, these. You're saying that for a child to stay in the system here in Claremont at $17,000 a year.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: I believe the popular term for is an unfunded mandate by law. We have to comply and nobody's going to give us the money for it.

[R8433-237] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes from [165]; LeClai | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: That takes place pretty quick.
TEXT> So as soon as we get the the student comes.
NEXT> Chris: Dave Cochran, who's our district coordinator. The sort of the it happens electronically through through Nessus where let's say again, I'm just going to pick on we pick on a

[R8433-238] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: So as soon as we get the the student comes.
TEXT> Dave Cochran, who's our district coordinator.  The sort of the it happens electronically through through Nessus where let's say again, I'm just going to pick on we pick on a different district.  If it's if it's, you know. John Stark. Yeah. John Striker and a kid moves, moves into Claremont. Then,  they'll go into the NSA system and they will change the district and it will get turned over to us, and then we assume we get it all electronically.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And how quickly, when that review was done, how quickly can where the student goes change?

[R8433-239] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes from [165]; LeClai | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: it's, you know. John Stark. Yeah. John Striker and a kid moves, moves into Claremont. Then, they'll go into the NSA system and they will change the district and it will get turned over to us, and then we assume we get it all electronically.
TEXT> And how quickly, when that review was done, how quickly can where the student goes change?
NEXT> Chris: It? Can it can happen. It would have to be a an IEP meeting that would include include everybody. But I think Dave sort of takes a takes a first

[R8433-241] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes from [165]; LeClai | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: interest of this kid and and where he's at, given his particular educational needs, the best place for him is to continue in that placement. And we're not I mean, these guys are in some pretty heavy hitting, out of district placements, right? We're talking.
TEXT> I guess my question would be if there was a student that we felt that we had that for, how quickly would that.
NEXT> Chris: Then I would say within a there's always a conversation, we would get the family together, we would have that conversation. And we I can give you one example of

[R8433-242] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: I guess my question would be if there was a student that we felt that we had that for, how quickly would that.
TEXT> Then I would say within a there's always a conversation,  we would get the family together, we would have that conversation. And we I can give you one example of that. We have,  we have a  young person going into middle school who we became the district of liability for this year. It has gone through some severe trauma. And, because of that trauma, the team got together and decided that the best placement for that kiddo was to continue in the in the current placement and then work toward bringing and reunifying that kid back to Claremont. And that process has been very smooth this spring. And that kid is is slated to come back and starting a program in the fall.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Does the would the process always take?

[R8433-250] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: If that.
TEXT> Quickly it can move that quickly. But I think it's about getting the families together. It's about getting the IP together. And if everybody is on board you can you can bring back a kid pretty. Quick okay.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So my next question will be if we had a facility in Claremont, we probably could look at saving substantial amount of money. If we focus some of this out

[R8433-267] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: I, I.
TEXT> I know I'd like you in the community to know we do not take  costs special education for granted. And and I think your questions are excellent.  But we are constantly looking at the way at the way we can  acquire a,  a piece of property or in this in the city of Claremont to reduce the cost of specialization, but most importantly to provide the appropriate services and keep the students in.
NEXT> Chris: Their community, in their community, in.

[R8433-274] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: For four students who moved in over this year. And, and then an additional four students at 174. And then there were four additional students for 300.
TEXT> Per student.
NEXT> Chris: No, that's.

[R8433-278] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michael O'Neill: 27 million. What's 2.7 million?
TEXT> $2.7 million is what is being spent right now for children to be outside the district.
NEXT> Chris: That is correct.

[R8433-287] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So if.
TEXT> If we look at. Let me back that up, because we started when we started on the conversation with the yellow House, what we did start was the was the alt program here. And so there is the all program that sits on the third floor right now of the high school. And so that particular program, it's important for you to know that when, Frank was principal and I was assistant principal,  you know, we averaged about three kids per year going to out of district placement just from the high school. And that  all program this year has prevented, two kiddos from going to out of district placement. So we've only sent one kid to out of district placement from the high school this year. So we we've saved two until we find a long term solution for that all program, it will never be. It is not going to be successful. It will not be successful. The longer we leave it on the third floor and we solve this problem. We've got other districts who have inquired. Hey, Chris, do you you got the all program up and is it running? Because we'd be interested in placing some kids to into that. So I have other districts who have sort of sniffed around. And once we get on all program that's really well established,  I have other districts who may want to play some kids here, which would create some revenue for us.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So how much, how much, how many staff to service those? Eight.

[R8433-289] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: So how much, how much, how many staff to service those? Eight.
TEXT> You're probably looking at a significant because right now you've got one teacher  who can support about 12 kids who where there's another parent in the classroom. If you continue to grow that you're going to continually have to add at staff on, you're going to have to add another couple of teachers to do that.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think I'm I think I'm hearing your question a little differently than Chris is.

[R8433-293] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Oh, absolutely.
TEXT> So how much would it cost to educate those, those specific eight kids if they were here? What kind of resources would we have to. Hire to give them the services that they're receiving now?
NEXT> Chris: Probably probably a significant amount of resources.

[R8433-301] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: So we are yes, we are.
TEXT> So, so if we had a building here and even if we stopped it with only three teachers and two parents, we could put how many children in there?
NEXT> Chris: Well you didn't right?

[R8433-312] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: With one.
TEXT> Teacher, what was my I wanted to I guess one of the things that, I mean, the the reason, I guess I kind of like this perk my ears a couple of weeks ago was, I guess was because of what, what kind of seems to be an was kind of an unknown  one of those unforeseen variables that  of having these situations where students come in. And I do think that there's not I'm not saying this is kind of an absolute across the board for  all students were talking about, but,  I have seen experience in situation. There are  kind of some of the parallels with what what Doctor Goodwin was, speaking about with the NHP  article, in that I have experienced where. A few cases where we're really starting with a student it before we're looking at these special needs. What we're really dealing with is a student whose behaviors are.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Amplified.

[R8433-314] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Amplified.
TEXT> Explosive or so dangerous that they cannot be in a general seminar setting. In fact,  are so kind of explosive, dangerous that we cannot safely contain them in a smaller population. And the only way is to and there are. It's very hard to sometimes separate the lines between kind of, you know, there's between behaviors that are tied to trauma, tied to some deeper issues. Two behaviors, that they have a lot more to do with towards behaviors that also come from the, from that individual student behaviors that come from the home and come from the environment and, and also sometimes family support. There's a lot of, you know, there's kind of so much crossover. But the thing is, what we end up having to do is, is the way, the best way we would have to deal with it is to start documenting and doing testing and to, to and to have to put together to be able to, to show that this student is a special needs students so we can put together an IEP and but in doing so, then we end up if that student leaves and comes over here, then we end up in this situation where now it's federally mandated and it's yeah, I, I don't. Don't I  don't really have any kind of like question about that. It's just it's just some of these challenge challenges that we have.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think you have something you.

[R8433-321] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: there still some severe cases that could not be met by that model? Because I, I have a feeling that there's going to be some cases, no matter how well your program is running. Absolutely just doesn't make sense to you. And we have to.
TEXT> Be there's there's always that that child or children that there needs to be met. But their program was equipped to handle 24 students with that with that staffing model, up to 24 students. So, you know,  when you talk about the.
NEXT> Chris: Cost and piggyback on that, that model is not a special ed model, right? Because if you're in a special ed, self-contained model, you can only have up to 12,

[R8433-334] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: If you remove the special ed programing label, they can still have access to that program. But you're not capped at 12 anymore.
TEXT> Right. So, so plausibly we would be looking at the ideal queen for a scenario which is 24 children in our system, regardless of their needs, being able to have an alternative place to go to school in Claremont as regards to being sent out, I understand, and I am not not even saying that there aren't some children that do have to go out of district, I get that, yeah, I get that. I've seen children also graduate in this district who have been in wheelchairs or not even barely able to communicate very well and graduate high school. So I've seen both ends of the spectrum. I've seen my own daughter, who's whose education should would have been more  prone to her just having the right person, with the right attitude, with her teaching.
NEXT> Chris: Yeah. So I, I want to think I mean, we, we continue to look at this very critically. And so I don't want people to think that we're, we're not

[R8433-338] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: we will continue to do that and we will continue to look for solutions. You know, some of these bigger heavy hitters aren't necessarily behavioral. We have some significantly involved kiddos with extreme medical and medically fragile who, it can be sad. Very sad fact.
TEXT> So, Michelle, I want to just it just said 24 kids, regardless of disability. And I'm not exactly sure that's what.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: No. And that that 24 is, you know, when I what I've described before is as the if you had to define what an alt student is, right, would be

[R8433-339] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, Michelle, I want to just it just said 24 kids, regardless of disability. And I'm not exactly sure that's what.
TEXT> No. And that that 24 is, you know, when I what I've described before is as the if you had to define what an alt student is, right, would be a student who does not thrive in the high school, does not have those extraordinary, fragile medical needs associated with them, but would otherwise be a prime candidate for out of district placement, it looks like. So that's that's the definition of an alt.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I looked at the Manchester article that Chris provided. That's sort of what they did. They sort of let's say there's there's eight slices in the pie. Well, they looked

[R8433-341] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: sort of let's say there's there's eight slices in the pie. Well, they looked at four of them, four of the categories that as you've just described Pat, that would benefit from it. I think they're fully cognizant that everybody can't go into this program.
TEXT> Correct. So yeah, I don't even know if they move forward with that. But you know, we're not the and the reason I wanted to provide this article is really interesting because at the last board meeting when you guys were having this discussion at the exact time you were having this discussion, I forwarded this article to both Cory and to into Mike at the same time. And they had reply back, we were talking about this right now. So if you look at what Manchester is dealing with, Manchester is is spending $6.5 million to place 87 kids outside of the district. So this is a this is not a an issue.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Just we're not unique.

[R8433-349] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes from [165]; LeClai | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: I mean, that's a discussion. It was just.
TEXT> It is. But  just thinking about it. You've got a certain number of students in classes taking a couple out. That cost is still going to be there. The classes are still going to be taking place, but.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: 23 instead of 25, right?

[R8433-358] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: you know, again, we'll continue to look for creative ways to bring some of these kids home, because I think that we all firmly believe that if we can educate them here in our own community, that is what's in the best interest for them.
TEXT> You know, I will share with you bring closure to this conversation, though, that we've had this discussion. We, the southwestern superintendents, have had this very discussion because this this is not a Claremont issue. This is a national issue. And one of the Achilles heels has been the distance between our districts and the and the needs of specific children. And you may have a child with a specific need, and you may find 2 or 3 others that have a complementary need, but geographically it not realistic. But we we we are not. I don't want anyone to think that we are done looking and we're done seeking alternatives. We are not because we it's it's impossible to just be to placate this and we'll continue.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: When you be nice. If we could have Manchester be able to say to me and Chester that we have a facility that might be able to offer some of

[R8433-360] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: live in my village. So, so I'm excited because in the next three years, I want a champion to help see that happen. I want us to be the city that makes a difference, that our school system says we're going to do something different.
TEXT> We're going to go out there, we're going to find the best thing, and we're going to make it. And then we're going to say to Manchester, hey, why don't you throw us a couple of those millions? Because we have this, we have this program here. So I think it's great that you're still looking at do I want to see it be more? Yeah. Do I want to see the seven two point whatever million? I look at 85 kids in Manchester for? What was it stated that it would take.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: 6.5 million.

[R8433-362] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michael O'Neill: 6.5 million.
TEXT> 87 students for 6.5 million.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: And then you look at us and we have how many students for two point.

[R8433-427] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: costs have gone up since the last draft. But but not but Yeah. What why would you. Because what. And maybe I'm trying to look at ways in which, how could we make how could we make it, kind of make it more accessible to.
TEXT> Nonprofit? No,  we're not saying, like, you know, league teams,  nonprofit leagues for kids in the community outside of the district.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Well, I the policy that exists today is 11 years old. I do know that these numbers that you're looking at the draft policy, I try to update them comparison

[R8433-429] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: we're going to keep the costs down, which you would think we should because of the taxpayer having access, I respect that. But then we have to increase our budget to take care of that cost difference. Yeah. So we're sort of in a coronavirus.
TEXT> And  and I'm not. Yeah. And I understand that. I was I think it was more I think trying to kind of understand I had kind of assumed when people are asking the first thing that came to mind, my mind was, was had to be staff.  And some people, I guess, had asked about the insurance. I don't know much about these things. I remember I all I remember is as a  when I was a kid growing up, I went, you know, Maryland county schools. We had we had teams, but we were always using school, we always using schools for the basketball games. And I, I don't remember. And we always use the fields and the what. Yeah, I, I, I don't know, I don't I'm not going to remember the supervision or how it worked, but it seems for like, you know, for a lot of those leagues, how those worked. I mean, I was I couldn't imagine if they were having to, like, do so much  for gym, if the gyms were costing that much, how it was going to be feasible. But I guess it was more asking the question because I don't know  how the.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I, I can say that, the community center working with Mark Roseland and Justin Martin last year, they used our gym space for community center basketball. All year, more

[R8433-430] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I was I couldn't imagine if they were having to, like, do so much for gym, if the gyms were costing that much, how it was going to be feasible. But I guess it was more asking the question because I don't know how the.
TEXT> So I, I can say that, the community center working with Mark Roseland and Justin Martin last year, they used our gym space for community center basketball.  All year, more than one elementary school.  And we did not charge them because it was community students and they needed extra space. And at some point, we probably will need their space for something and it will be a reciprocal agreement. We also worked with the Claremont Christian Academy,  for space rental. So I  don't know who's approached you.  However, I do know that there's at least two organizations in the community who have just this year accessed elementary gym space in the school system. So that programs for Claremont children can be supported.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Thank you for explaining that, because that's always the question. And when people say that they contacted or they've looked into it, I think it's I'm sometimes also curious who

[R8433-448] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: She got that.
TEXT> I have I have a suggestion, because I, I totally agree when and I think if, if you were to look at the policy and rework it so that you had more flexibility around those kinds of activities happening at the high school. So let's say you had, a number of hours that wasn't a four hour event. Usually you rent like a catering hall for a wedding, four hours of your typical rental fee. Right? That was a day and a half out of our lives that was spent setting up, you know, displaced classes, etc.. So I think if you were to create a rental form, like many other facilities have, that gave you, you know, nonprofit organization, local school, you know, students involved, you gave you many options to and then you would price according to that. And you did it like with a four hour basic package. But then if it went over that you could charge X amount  per hour. I think there's a lot of templates out there that other facilities use that we could borrow from, but it would then for 99% of the taxpayers that use our building and who we want to give them use of the building, you know, gratis, that's there. But then when you've got these big, big things coming in that really suck up a lot of our expenses, we can get the right amount to cover ourselves for.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: That sounds amazing idea.

[R8433-456] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'So, Mr. O'Neil, I can  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So they assess their own fees. But what was the charge for the custodial? I mean that's hours.
TEXT> We don't charge for custodial or normally out. And the custodian would be here. We charge if it's off hours. We're in a custodian. We have to come in the example we the building is covered by a custodian for certain times. The custodians really and want to have a person to shut the windows and everybody leaves and do that stuff. So if it's if it's during normal custodial hours, 3 to 11, for example, if somebody was on second shift, we don't charge for the custodian, okay. The only child.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We're talking about a day and a half worth of time taken up by one campaign.

[R8433-495] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: I'm just throwing it out there. Not probably a can of worms we might not want to get into.
TEXT> What's a good question, a question I was I was wondering about, I, I was wondering about how this has been done by other districts in New Hampshire, because the reason I asked this before this became this huge, explosive issue a couple of years ago, this was I cannot remember which district, but it was a New Hampshire district where it became it was a question that came up where it was a parent going. It was a parent with a I can't remember the age, assuming that the student was trained  but had transgender identity,  and the school was the school district was addressing how they wanted to deal with the bathroom issue. This was before it became this huge national explosive issue. But it's already, you know, it's it seems to be a case by case basis by the other New Hampshire districts have already kind of dealt with it.
NEXT> Unidentified: I can.

[R8433-498] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Do guidance from the state or school boards Association.
TEXT> I can tell you the way we've handled it. And Frank Sprague was a building principal the first time I experienced it. Pat Berry, we deal with it, by respecting the student, by deal, by dealing with it on a case by case basis, but acknowledging students also we I don't please jump in, but,   I would be reluctant to have to follow a policy the way you're describing it, not you, but what has been provided by the legislature. Because what the way we've been doing it, it's working. It's working by respecting the student privacy, by having the administration and the faculty deal with it appropriately, accepting the difference  and and protecting the rights of all.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: And I understand that, and I totally get it. And that's why it comes irritating. That turned into an issue because I think it was been handled very well in

[R8433-499] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (minute taker: 'Brant, you made the moti | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: what has been provided by the legislature. Because what the way we've been doing it, it's working. It's working by respecting the student privacy, by having the administration and the faculty deal with it appropriately, accepting the difference and and protecting the rights of all.
TEXT> And I understand that, and I totally get it. And that's why it comes irritating. That turned into an issue because I think it was been handled very well in the past. My concern is now that it kind of turned into what it is. Is the administration still going to have the handle on it that you're used to? Because, should a child did on a five transgender, they would probably approach the administration as an individual and say, this is a need that I have. And and you would work through it. But the current situation, I wouldn't surprise me for that to stop happening, given that we should just they would just assume that there are certain rights for not assume that. But, you know, there's certain rights afforded. I'm just concerned that it might lead to a situation where you've got an individual that has these special needs but hasn't addressed with the administration, and it gets us into, a place we don't want to be. That's my only concern, because if it wasn't such a big social issue right now, I wouldn't worry about it. But I really would would be concerned that we might get to the point that not all students that would have this need are going to make that apparent to to the administration and the teachers. That would be my only concern.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: And so that's why I was wondering if we want to just have some, some definition, because I know that the what is it.

[R8433-528] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: knowing our students, to providing them with options for talking to us, you know, sharing what they're comfortable sharing with us, or the crisis counselor, guidance counselor, nurse, and then and letting them know that we're there to help them in whatever way we can.
TEXT> Having said that, if you have someone who's somewhere where they're not supposed to be as an administrator, you deal with it like any other misbehavior. And you, you you then have a conversation with that student about why were you there, what was going on, and if it was a legitimate issue around transgender. You ascertain that in the conversation with the student. If there were somewhere where they weren't supposed to be doing what they weren't supposed to be doing, you figure that out pretty quick. And then there's a consequence, really.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: My bigger concern is that there, because I can just see some jokester making life difficult for the girls locker room.

[R8433-532] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: And I'm just wondering and, and.
TEXT> And that's going to happen a couple. Of times. And, you know, when the consequences are levied on that student and other students realize that's really not.
NEXT> Unidentified: Worth it.

[R8433-546] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: at some verbiage to put in our student handbook, which would identify our expectations around student behavior and the use of bathrooms and communication with administration. And that might, I think, be a softer, approach versus having to put some kind of a policy into.
TEXT> And legally a student handbook really is policy.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R8433-556] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Just wanted you to know that currently we have International Student Exchange.  Jennifer Ferland is the advisor for that.  An opportunity for students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And that's a different group than we've been using.

[R8433-558] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: And that's a different group than we've been using.
TEXT> No, this is the group that we have been using. But there is another group that has approached the high school. They've been in business 30 years providing life changing cultural exchange experiences. And their name is a is a  USAA user. But my point is we have learned of this organization that has been involved with American families for, as I said, three decades through it, another student from another country who's interested in exchanging here. And so we just wanted you to know that there's I mean, there's nothing that's going to required anything and awareness of you that we now have another organization that has wonderful reputation.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Just providing more, more opportunities for kids.

[R8433-559] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (runs agenda and votes from [165]; LeClai | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: through it, another student from another country who's interested in exchanging here. And so we just wanted you to know that there's I mean, there's nothing that's going to required anything and awareness of you that we now have another organization that has wonderful reputation.
TEXT> Just providing more,  more opportunities for kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Absolutely. Great.

[R8433-561] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely. Great.
TEXT> I mean, the number of kids coming has been down.
NEXT> Unidentified: Has it? I think we're used to.

[R8558-5] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: what are our priorities? What are our joint priorities? And that's going to take some time, because there are issues and challenges that the school district faces that the city and the school council faces. So why not partner and work together to address those?
TEXT> And there'll be more discussion about that. Brian Wrap  myself. Charlene Lovett, the mayor and city manager, will be meeting next Monday morning.  To review  the agenda. And I look forward to that  that initial meeting. I also would like to share with you,  that there is a back to school festival  later this month, August 27th,  being sponsored by Walmart, Carl Police Memorial Fund, National field representatives at that Monadnock park 10 a.m. to 12 noon. If you have not participated  or attended this function,  I urge you to to attend. It is remarkable to see how the community reaches out, welcomes the young children, provides us school supplies for them, and it's sort of the excitement, especially when teachers and administrators recognize  students, former students and their parents. So it's almost like a family affair, and it speaks a great deal about the community. I also would like to share with you  that  a few days ago, the new RSA, RSA 18913 a one into effect. That is the New Hampshire criminal offense record check. In the past, after the state police performed the criminal history record check on a person being considered for employment in a school district, the state police were only allowed to report only convictions of specific felonies.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And it's important to note that that may seem sufficient, but it is not uncommon for felonious charges to be pled down to misdemeanors in the court system. As a

[R8558-14] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: That makes a lot more sense.
TEXT> So stay tuned for that. So yeah, there's a lot of media. There's a lot with PLA and the the angst between our our distinguished colleagues and the school board.  That's a process that I don't think it's something to be embarrassed about. It's happening. It's occurring. We're trying to work through it, but we can't forget that we are moving forward, that our faculty, our administration and the students have a great deal to look forward to as the school year approaches. Thank you Brian.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any other questions for the superintendent?

[R8558-29] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: took all the AP classes, and she worked incredibly hard and at times I almost felt sorry. Geez, you're not really enjoying your senior year, but she came out of it and said, I think I'm going to be ready for going on to college.
TEXT> It's okay. I feel as if I've been prepared for it. Part of that is the schedule that we put into place. Was it hard on the adults that are wrapped around this decision? Absolutely. Was it hard on the teacher? Sure. Was it hard on Pat? No doubt. Was it hard on Middleton and the board to hear all these things? Absolutely. But that's not the goal of the board. The board's goal is to provide the best opportunity for kids that we can provide. My recommendation to the board, and I know you're going back and forth on this, is if there is even the likelihood that one child can get a better education out of the current schedule than they were getting out of the past schedule, you have to find a way to keep this current schedule in place. You have to find a way to do it. I don't know what it is. Right now. It's adults and lawyers playing around in courts in this kind of crud between now and August when it starts up, get together with the teachers, bring them in, sit down, find out the issue and work this thing out. Could you picture if your child was a junior last year under one schedule and the senior this coming year under a different schedule?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And then how are you going to explain that to a college when you're applying to a college, you think we're doing the kids good service on that one. We

[R8558-33] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Anybody else? Public comment? Seeing none, we'll close. Public comment. Discussion items. We have updates. Claremont Summer Food Service Program.
TEXT> I just wanted to share with you through the summer a little bit more through the summer that  beginning earlier last month to Claremont Middle School, Maple Avenue Elementary School, one for all family space, and the Claremont Soup Kitchen between 12 and 1 130. Every child in Claremont up to age 18 is provided a free lunch. The only requirement is that they eat the lunch on on site. I'd like to share something with you because this is much more than just Claremont. In 2015, the Summer Food Service program S.F. SP Federal Program provided meals to more than 2.5 million children each day in almost 48,000 sites. But the program's peak in July. Statistics about New Hampshire. There are 147 individuals who are food insecure in New Hampshire, 1 in 9 persons are food insecure. 41,000 children under the age of 18 are food insecure, and 1 in 5 children in Manchester are food insecure. I think it's important to note that the official poverty rate in 2009 was 14.3%. That's up from 13.2 in 2008. The number of people in poverty in 2009 represents 43.6 million, is the largest number in the 51 years in which poverty estimates have been published.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I think what's critical to note is this that many volunteers and with the work of of local agencies and many of these volunteers or teachers or administration and

[R8558-36] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. All right. Moving forward. Do you have any questions for the superintendent? Do we have. Any updated.
TEXT> Numbers, I guess, about how the, about the attendance. Well, I don't know if this is my word, but, have we been seeing an increase in the number of participating children and families over, over the summer? Just wanted to get a sense of how that was coming.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Patrick, I do. Not, but I will. I will acquire that. I visited the during the period where lunch is being served. I've talked to some of the leaders of

[R8558-47] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Michael Neil', 'Mr. O'Neal'; spell | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: They're going to work. Would they end up working during the school day or.
TEXT> At on certain portions of it? Yes, but we can put up fencing and safety fencing, and that's not that big of a deal to to keep the the students away. The issue is when you're doing architectural shingles, once it gets to be 80 degrees in the sun, you can't work on them anymore. Their concern was with the deadline for the end of August, they didn't think they could meet it with 165 squares of shingles to do. So I think that we can work out a deal where we'll still get a significant savings  over what the other projections were, and we should be able to get this done in a safe manner.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Like what are the projections for. Cost on that?

[R8558-87] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Michael Neil', 'Mr. O'Neal'; spell | 2016-08-03
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: source was the types of meals and the food that was provided for students. But I've also noticed that since we've been talking about this, that there have been a lot of improvement where we continue to have these kind of improvements to try to.
TEXT> Yes. And that's and that's basically what some of this information that Middleton provided this evening is. Continued improvements. That was my feeling all along is that instead of going to an outside vendor, that's going to end up costing us more money eventually that we try to improve the program. But I didn't know the history, nor do I still know the history of how we got to where we are and whether or not it's too late to fix it, or if we think we can continue to make improvements to fix this. And that's why  I think every member of the board at one time or another has had a student who's attended school here, and that's where the feedback would come from. As far as you know, we certainly have seen a significant increase thanks to Carol and the number of meals with serving the revenue that's coming in. Obviously, you don't make more money by selling more meals because you're pretty much selling each meal at a break even anyways. So, you know, that's the question. Can can we continue to improve? What do we feel that that's not possible.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: So on this can I ask questions about this paper?

[R8558-105] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Michael Neil', 'Mr. O'Neal'; spell | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: I think that's something.
TEXT> That we can move on if we decide to maintain it. But in the state of flux it was in, I don't think it was necessary, you know? And what's going to happen is even if you if you go to an outside vendor, most of those vendors are going to put a POS system in and then charge you back for it anyway. So, I mean, it may be something worth definitely doing. I mean, I know there's other ways to fund those to fund the student accounts as well that we had looked into but hadn't really made any decisions on.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: And just from a so on the RFP side of that, if they did go that does that part of the package deal, they would have that figured out force

[R8558-201] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Brant' (ASR)) | 2016-08-03
PREV> Chris Irish: of getting into college. One quarter, they get four years. We're messing with that one year because some arbitrary entity says this, and the entity that's supposed to work with us and care about our kids is saying, don't talk to us, just do this.
TEXT> My, my, my concern about this whole thing is, I think the discussion get sidetracked a little bit because we want to go to an A, B, and we're locked into this 4x4. And I've heard the merits of both. And at this point, I think it comes down to we  as a board. We've been on the wrong side of this since day one on the arbitrator side. Now, I'm not saying that that, that, that it's wrong to want an A, B. I'm saying through the arbitration and legal process that we've gone through,  it has not been in our favor. And so if we want to go with the A, B, which, you know, I'm all for the appeal and I'm all for continuing with this, but at some point we have to respect the laws and the rules that we say we're going to play by and just say, because part of a student, part of a life lesson is, you know, respect, authority, you know, how do you how are you going to tell a kid to, to to listen to his teacher
NEXT> Brent Ferland: if we are not going to listen to, to, to to the authority that says, you know what, we need to go to a 4x4, I mean, there's a lesson

[R8558-217] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Brant' (ASR)) | 2016-08-03
PREV> Michelle Pierce: did. And I'm going to tell you right now, it is ridiculous to think that we can't be strong enough to be the first in the community, the first in the city, the state to say, look, we have our children's intentions in mind first.
TEXT> To say that a schedule is the make or break of a child failing in school, I think really is a disservice to any student. Okay, well, because a student will learn.
NEXT> Unidentified: What we're talking.

[R8558-225] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: failures and things like that, I know that under the norm based grading that there were lots of failures. And that was one of the main reasons that there was a real push to go to standards based grading so that students could be successful.
TEXT> And so  that also ties into the scheduling. And just like Brant said, if you're saying that a student can make a make or break it, by the way, that their day is, that isn't entirely true, because I could I could open my little Chromebook right here, right now and put it in 4x4 and find all kinds of dissertations about how that's the best block schedule, just like I can find. Just as many that say that a B is the best block schedule for learning. So I think that I support the idea of pursuing an appeal and moving us in the direction that our superintendent and our principal wants to go within the confines of the law. Just because I want to get home ten minutes faster doesn't mean I get to drive 60 miles an hour all the way home. I have to abide by the law.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Have one last.

[R8558-231] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (uncertain - separate cluster; chair reco | 2016-08-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: in Claremont, every one of them. So to hang all of this on block schedule is ludicrous. That's why I've been against it from day one. When you start making a saying it's the schedule causing all of this, I'm not buying it. Well, look.
TEXT> We've had a lot of time to discuss. And really, you say that kids. Kids have already said that they feel like they weren't being challenged.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But these aren't the ones stealing, right?

[R8558-236] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Or was it grading that was failing?
TEXT> I know you guys have been against it, but we. Know I've. Got it right now. You said something that really disturbed me though. Income of the parents is not something that I feel is really going to affect how the kid is, is doing. I think that's blaming the family.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, I.

[R8558-297] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: To go. And I and I agree with that. Let's let's take that appeal and say that's our case.
TEXT> You cannot you cannot you cannot bargain away those rights. And what we did was we changed the student schedule. We didn't change the teacher's work schedule. They're still working the same number of hours for the year. That's that's not change.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: I don't disagree with that is. But what I'm saying is the arbitrator found that we gave that to them. And so we need to work within the system that

[R8558-304] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: And I like I said, I agree wholeheartedly with the idea of a deal.
TEXT> But to to go backwards, to choose to go backwards before we have the Supreme Court telling us what we need to do is irresponsible. We know that the 4x4 was was failing to many kids, maybe not everybody, but failing certain kids. And we've made a change, a positive change that does need to be tweaked. We've already heard that they're making more tweaks. That's that's acceptable. That's what we need to have. Brant, you and I, we're on the same page on.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: That logic. But here's where I, where I lost my that path a while ago.

[R8558-321] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat', 'Miss Berry' (ASR)) | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patricia Barry: to be reconstructed from scratch and revolted on. So I and that your program of studies is your philosophy. It's what you say you are doing as an as an institution, and this is what you believe in and this is how you're doing it.
TEXT> And we wrote that and you voted on it based on the philosophy of the a, B. So I  point that out to you is another piece that hasn't been brought up as a consequence of choosing to go back to the 4x4, that would have to be completely redone. And that that yeah, that's work. And that's we would do it if we had to. But I also to the credits, Patrick, I just want to clarify on a 4x4 students take four courses a semester or, four courses.  They have up to eight credits a year in either schedule. Students, in order to maintain their full time eligibility, only have to take six. And it allows for your failures as well as well. So there's no more credits on a student's plate or any more courses on a student's plate in an, A, B than on a 4x4. Both of them. You have the ability to earn eight credits in a year. The only difference is that you earn four and 4 or 8. So I just wanted to clarify.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Right, I, I guess I was looking more that I mean, you have two sums, but the but the process doesn't necessarily equal the same in terms of the experience.

[R8558-404] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: You had a question.
TEXT> Make a public statement to all of you. Whatever the outcome of this decision is, I will continue to work as hard as I can. This isn't personal. Not about me. It's about what I believe in. 2011, I started the process. I believe in the a b schedule because of the past five years. This isn't something I pulled out of my hat. I know I'm rocking the boat. For those who are invested, I know that it represents change. But I urge you, I urge you at the superintendent of the schools to support continuing the A B schedule. And it's not for any other reason than data  hard, fast data over years, especially coming from students. If your decision is based on what you've heard from adults, I would caution you to vote because adults have no place in this. This is about data and students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Public comment.

[R8558-445] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: Jump in.
TEXT> By going back to the 4x4, we're going to be changing students and teachers schedules. We're going to  discontinue the flex box and advisory periods. Student intervention will discontinue. This would be replaced by a 30 minute after school extra help session. That has been a failure. Adjusting the 20 1617 Program Study Student Handbook Core Academic Core sequencing curriculum documents, as well as certain plans programs in place for the October 2016 visit. The Bell schedule, planned for 1617 will revert back to 20 1314. And last but not least, the 8% additional compensation of $157,000 for our colleagues will be gone. Who is making this decision?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The motion will reconsider.

[R8558-486] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: First of all.
TEXT> Meggie, do you believe in your heart that you want to see a change that makes things better? I believe you do. I believe Brett does. I believe all four of you do. However, I think that you guys need to really think about one thing here that's more important than anything. We're going to lose some really major ground right now. You guys don't understand. Possibly. Maybe you never will. But you know what? I live in it every day. I live seeing kids that don't get to have the kind of education they should. And right now, this is different. This is a fight for us to make sure that we continue. So let us approve this, let them go forward and have their school year. Let the lawyers and everybody else take it to the court. He said, quote unquote. I wasn't going to be here if I didn't think that it had a chance. You're not going to have a lawyer waste his time regardless. I'm here for that.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: How many times have we been told this board were in charge of policy and procedure? That's that's what we do as policy and procedure. And the problem that we

[R8568-37] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presides; cluster also carries the joint  | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: 2000 and on, it's been very marginal growth, not much at all. So what does that mean? It means because we back in the 1980s had a greater population. We have an infrastructure to support a greater population. And now we have a smaller population.
TEXT> And we're trying to rely on a smaller taxpayer base to support the infrastructure. And we are seeing it in the water and sewer distribution system we're seeing in our roads. We're seeing in all of the elements that make, you know, a community thrive. And right now, the burden of the cost of maintaining that infrastructure is falling on fear and fewer people, and it's making it harder for people. So that's why we have to grow the population now. We need to attract new businesses and residents to increase the tax base. It's again about broadening the tax base, and we have to do that by leveraging and promoting our assets. So what  are we as a community doing that makes us unique from other communities? What makes us the place to that people would like to live and work and educate their children? We have to increase our qualified workforce. For a long time we heard that there aren't enough jobs, but that's not the case here in Claremont. We have jobs, we have good paying jobs. The issue for us really is we don't have enough qualified workers, meaning we don't have the workers with the skill sets that the companies here need.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And we should be very proud of the fact that as a community, we are home to some of the leading companies in the on the continent. Can am currently

[R8568-43] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presides; cluster also carries the joint  | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: And judges would like to speak on this at some time in the near future. And that is interrupting the cycle of generational poverty, because we can't really have true economic growth if we don't discuss and move forward to resolving some of these issues.
TEXT> We already have a lot of things going on in the community, but there needs to be more work done, I think in consolidating our efforts and thinking about what are the barriers that prevent people from being employed and and going after higher education. Quality childcare is an important thing. I know we've talked about in that in the past with for from a school district perspective, you talk about early childhood development from a city perspective, we're talking about  quality child care so people can go to work,  housing, affordable housing  that's attractive to the younger generation. What we can consider in my age group and older is, you know, the housing that we would like is not necessarily what the younger generations are looking for. So we need to kind of take stock of our housing stock and see how we need to change that. And then of course education. Education is the great equalizer. Does it matter where you come from, what your background is? The education is what really can get you from where you have been to where you want to go. So I believe based on conversations I know the council members have had  that I've heard talked about in the past. These are just some of the suggested common ground issues that I think we could work together on. But these are just my suggestions.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And if the council members want to add to that, or we can further refine that once we hear the school school districts overview, that would be great. So that

[R8568-51] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: pockets with this occurs. Teacher expectations is the critical piece and I've talked to you before. There are so many of our faculty here in the Claremont School District who look right through the socioeconomic appearance of a student and are committed to that student.
TEXT> More than 50% of the academic outcomes of school aged children is related to the teacher and their commitment and their attitude and their expectations. So we're not talking about increasing the budget. We're talking about high quality teachers and and assisting those who have difficulty with students who are challenged. The self-fulfilling prophecy. When I was a classroom teacher 47 years ago. We had to build a. Grouping. And a b, c, d I unintentionally, but I know I did. When my lower group came in, I treated them differently. I didn't do it consciously, but I know I did. What schools do the health and nutrition of children  who are food deprived, who have challenges is critical. Many children from poverty,  have health access issues, but their health nutrition is a critical factor. And in fact, we are making a sincere commitment with that, with our food service program, with our, also working with different organizations, such as from Dartmouth College, where we're talking about and providing students with opportunities to learn more about nutrition and health.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But there are students of poverty are at risk with health and nutrition. Now that we have a full scale breakfast program and students access that, we are being able

[R8568-56] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: do much about that. I say we can do something about that. And I say, if we do do something about that, we will reduce those disparities that the graph showed about those who do not have a solid education and those who do do.
TEXT> And in closing, when Charlene talked about the need for a workforce with skills, those skills don't occur genetically. They come from a public school education setting. And we are working very carefully with our Catholic with Kathleen  Brownell, director of Curriculum instruction Assessment, Corey LeClaire, working with our building leaders, working with our teachers to be sure that each year there were certain skills in reading, writing and mathematics that a student has accomplished. Those are the essential skills. And the goal is that as the child prepares to go to high school, we will find students with a better skill set. The other piece is we're starting in the middle school to talk about the opportunities after high school. We don't want students to start thinking about what I'm going to do after high school. When they're a junior or senior. We want them to start and being aware and exposed to different opportunities when they're in the middle school, because right now, 35 to 40% of the high school graduates go right into the workforce. And my question is, is that 30 and 40%, were they all aware of the opportunities for further education? And I'm not talking necessarily about a four year college, but were they aware and were they groomed to take advantage of that? Because if they do take advantage of that, their opportunities for economic stability will be greatly enhanced. So thank you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you. Does anybody have any questions. I want to go into public.

[R8568-62] Bernie Fulton | Public commenter (named 'Bernie' and 'Mr. Fulton' on the record; spell | 2016-08-09
PREV> Bernie Fulton: better life. They worked hard. And the key thing is they wanted better for themselves than for their children. I don't know how to get that back, but we don't have so many parents anymore that want better for themselves than they had for others.
TEXT> I'm proud of the fact that my three kids have all been to Europe more than once, and I haven't made it yet, and at this stage of the game, probably never will. I'm proud of that fact. The other thing about, low  income challenged children is the concept of resilience. Some minority of kids pick up along the way in spite of their terrible home life, in spite of unstructured chaos, in spite of not knowing where their meal is coming from, they get through and succeed in our usual measures of success. There's something about and I don't know how much work has been done in this area, but resilience, if there could be ways of identifying and,  fostering resilience,  I think that would help children to help themselves.  Raise them, raise themselves, help themselves with the help of the schools and the community.  Raise their expectations. Sleep, food, nutrition and sleep. It's hard to learn if you can't stay awake. And  I, I have said this publicly before, and I'm going to say it again. I do think that running the schools is a lot tougher than running the city,  because working with people as a whole, teachers, parents, kids is a harder challenge than although than sewers, roads and water pipes. Although I'm not, I'm not suggesting that those things aren't without their financial and other challenges to. And that's the end of my bullet notes. Thank you.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Thank you. Patrick. I thank you for not just a couple points. And one to kind of. Follow up.

[R8568-67] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-09
PREV> Brian Rapp: About.
TEXT> The people. Why are  people buying houses? I don't have those numbers, but I. Some, retail. Downtown retail owners have told me that they have seen a lot of, a lot of their customer base has been they have been people who have bought homes here who have moved from the upper valley. So there there is something happening there on that level. The one thing and again, I don't have it would be good to have statistics. Rather than kind of more anecdotal or observations. I, you know, I guess my question would be the one, the one thing, trying to find out, you know, who are these families that are buying the houses? And I do think that sometimes I've seen also people that work in the city, but they don't they don't want to live here. Sometimes a factor with that can be school. The schools reputation, if, you know, if  they are, you know, a young family and they have children, the schools can become a big factor with that. I don't know how much of that is. You know, again, statistics, it would be something to look at. But it seems like there are people buying the homes. I just don't know who they are.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: The only other thing I'd say about the, using the data, you know, I think the, the data is often most useful in the ways that schools use them so

[R8568-97] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Councilor Pope' and 'Scott'; tech | 2016-08-09
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Sure.
TEXT> I know we talk about the Can-Am and such. I know a little bit about tech centers having worked in more, it's not just say a can am I do deal with a lot of business people. It's a Hinckley oil that is hiring HVAC, all these different companies that have started. Several of the companies that you see the vans driving are students from here. They're still looking for people. It's a micros. It's a New Hampshire industry. It's a matrix which now has three buildings in town.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yep. They're looking.

[R8568-104] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-09
PREV> Scott Pope: Because I do work for them.
TEXT> So but  if I may, I would be 100% in support of proceeding in that vein. We have an agreement between Newport. But the reality is the Department of Education  acknowledges that agreements are set with good intent, but agreements are concrete, and that I think the adjustments have to be made because our agreement and the way we're doing business isn't fitting as well as we'd like, where we'd like to go and the opportunities for students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So that's good to.

[R8568-131] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-09
PREV> Carolyn Towle: To me, it's priority. It's important. Very important. So find the time.
TEXT> I wanted to ask, and this might be expressed my interest in being on on this. This is something originally what Scott, what Scott had was talking about. I think one of the, one of the things to make, I think that would help with scheduling has been often a big issue, sometimes with the tech programs. But our tech but our the vocational school can also be we can we can get back to having applied language arts,  applied math and science programs within within the building. If it especially if we're having issues with with scheduling,  but instead of like kind of turning, you know, getting thinking of, you know, vocational education is is carbon so compartmentalized? We can it can be tied to those greater academics. And  you know, I'm not talking about like, just having some kind of having when I talk about like technical writing, technical writing does not have to be  this, just having them focus on, on this, this, you know, very narrow type of writing. I mean, learning how to write is in itself, if you know how to write, you can learn how to, to write technical purposes. So I do think that there's also a role here for like kind of looking at the academics, because I think we're going to have to either figure to figure out how to get the students to get those, those needs as well.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But yeah, they can be. But but also think about how they tie in to where we want them to go. So and as well as the I think just

[R8568-138] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - recognized only as 'Michell | 2016-08-09
PREV> Michelle Pierce: we're not just looking at, okay, we've got this industry and this industry, and that's great because I am also a first class welder, and because I chose to go through an occupational program rather than live off the state of eight at the time.
TEXT> So I've gotten several trainings  through choosing not to become an aide of the state,  and that was through Maine. However, what I'm getting at is this there are there should be a focus on what is really needed. Health care is really needed. Even private one on one care is needed. More families want to keep their family members home. The fact that we could create a PC, a program not even a certified, but a PC, a program and roll kids out the door making 15 to $20 an hour is just as lucrative. And just as important  as those welding jobs are. And I'm not. And I'm not saying that it should be over, but I think that it should be really, really considered. And I'm not hearing any of that. I'm not hearing anything about the health side of it, which is we're going to be in crisis. I've been a nurse for over 20 years. We're going to be in crisis  not too long from now with the nursing shortage that we already have. So why not get ahead of the game, create a program that kids are going to want to take and want to be a part of,  and come out of being even ten times more successful and you created it. It's a created sensation here, something different.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah, I think that can be part of the conversation for the committee.

[R8568-142] Nicholas | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Nick', 'Nicholas', 'Councilor Cla | 2016-08-09
PREV> Brian Rapp: And it would help to sort of have that pipeline to River Valley and sort of connect with their nursing program as well. Yeah.
TEXT> I don't, I don't want to date,  but I was the first year for this center opened,  I was in the first class  for culinary arts here. And then I went on to a second year of that and then it wasn't offered then, but I took a third year as a student teacher with another classmate. And there were several people in that program, myself included, that went on to open a restaurant. So I can fully understand the value of this center. And just what it meant to me going through this program. I have a bunch of questions that I, I love where this conversation is going because personally, when the last time that the two boards got together, I found it to be a complete waste of time. And, we all sat around holding hands singing Kumbaya, but but nothing flushed out of it. And and it was I don't feel as much now as I did then that the mentality was us versus them. I don't see that anymore. So that's a good thing. I have questions as far as is the school capacity. Like we talk a lot about water and sewer capacity, but if we're bringing in and I have some ideas about bringing in new housing and all of that, but I just have to know on a school and what can the schools handle?
NEXT> Nicholas: So if we were to bring in 100 new families, would that mean we're in crisis mode because we can't handle that or.

[R8568-146] Nicholas | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Nick', 'Nicholas', 'Councilor Cla | 2016-08-09
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: paying tuition to attend Stevens High School. That is a that is an unspoken gem. And and it's building and growing as we speak, hiring outstanding educators, getting great instructional leaders. So but we have to cross some bridges first. But capacity Nick is there.
TEXT> And I had a question as far as so the council has talked about repeatedly, and we haven't followed through on it yet, but we don't currently enforce a curfew that is on the books. And I'm one of those late night workers. So I'm headed home at from 1030 to 3 a.m.,  and I'm seeing school district age children on the street. I'm wondering  on  how that translates over to school and the city opting not to enforce a curfew because we, you know, we think someone might challenge it. But my standpoint on that is everything in life is going to be challenged.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So but to be fair, councilor, I believe Chief Scott gave a presentation on that and said that we could not enact a curfew a year ago. Yeah.

[R8568-170] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presides; cluster also carries the joint  | 2016-08-09
PREV> Carolyn Towle: That's my.
TEXT> Can't market the city without marketing the schools. Because if you ask a realtor, any realtor, ask them, you know, the number one question that they get from young families with kids is they want to know about the schools. And and tonight and I live in this community. You're part of the school district, the school board. And we're all seeing those are great statistics. We should be shouting them from the rooftops.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I.

[R8568-174] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presides; cluster also carries the joint  | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Columbia, and the other person sold their house in four days. So things are moving. And some of the data that we have is old data, but we don't need to wait for the data to be in a pretty package before we start marketing.
TEXT> We have a lot to celebrate. And the last thing I want to say and then I'll get off my soapbox, it's a disservice to the people who live in this community, the students that go to these schools to talk about how bad the schools are constantly and not celebrate. There they are.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: All coming.

[R8568-186] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - recognized only as 'Michell | 2016-08-09
PREV> Scott Pope: I know Terry Casey does that, but I mean, so she does a good job on that. She probably runs the pantry. But I mean, there's there's. All these. Things that are really good. And if she's doing that, fantastic.
TEXT> And Whitman is able to supply with all the collecting that she's been doing over the last few years, each child a set of six underwear, socks, pants, shirts, the whole nine yards. So. And that's all free? It's a free service. There's a lot. There is lots of stuff going on. There's lots of things that are going on with all kinds of us trying to do things out there. We need the support of the city. We'd like to see the support of the city a little more. We'd like to hear, you know, some champion out there for that stuff. And the bigger things that go on  for sure. You know, the heart of Claremont kids that busted their bunnies two years in a row. We get the donations of the flowers and we've got to do something immediately. So we pick a place and plant them. But that's the whole point, is.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's right.

[R8568-193] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presides; cluster also carries the joint  | 2016-08-09
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Know, all of them. I'd like them all to be on board. Maybe the radio stations that we work well with, they get on board. They they have a time for a student that has.
TEXT> Done work with learning disabled and just talking about what they've learned and, and what's great about that student that they're helping or I mean, the gamut is wide open if you think about it. And that's how we turn that all around. We need their help to we need the town papers to help us. And that's my challenge.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We need to remember we got to go in this city in we we have to be able to go in and work with the people, not just the children.

[R8568-203] Nicholas | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Nick', 'Nicholas', 'Councilor Cla | 2016-08-09
PREV> Brian Rapp: Nick was next.
TEXT> So I'm. I  send food out into the community with the help of community members. So I'm seeing a different thing  when we're talking about poverty than probably most are seeing. I'm seeing people that are just some are from the soup kitchen recently commented that food could be sent to me or them because they have financial restrictions to give away food boxes. I do not. I'm seeing families that are just barely above the income limit, but if someone is injured  or is laid off, benefits don't kick in and you still have the same number of children to feed. So I think in this conversation that if we're just focusing on vocational programs and marketing, we're missing a huge part of this. And I think poverty, a task force on poverty in this community made up of stakeholders in this community ahead of the hospital, that needs to be established first and foremost, because it's it's just whatever we're doing here, it's we're we're in the same perpetual cycle. It's the same cycle.
NEXT> Unidentified: And.

[R8568-205] Nicholas | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Nick', 'Nicholas', 'Councilor Cla | 2016-08-09
PREV> Unidentified: And.
TEXT> I have to say, I'm curious when when an open house happens in the school district, is there the ability or maybe it happens now, but, I'm reminded that for all the jobs we have in this community, people don't know of them, and it's very hard to get that message out. And it's I know that the city marketing can't benefit private business, but I think we need to do a better job of that. And I don't know if something can be done. Like a school, like. A school open house. The highlights, what's available in Parks and Rec and the school district, and for H and Boy Scouts and all of those programs in one gymnasium. So after your meeting with teachers, maybe you can go walk through those, those programs. But,  I just met a bunch of new neighbors in my neighborhood. They were talking about how quickly houses are selling here, and I was very surprised that as soon as the house is listed. And sold, and. I just met a business owner from Lebanon that bought their house in my neighborhood, the new restaurant on Washington Street that I'll be opening.  They bought a house in my neighborhood. And  and the days of, this wasn't even around when when I was a kid, but welcome wagon. Yeah.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So we've talked. About that.

[R8568-207] Nicholas | Claremont City Councilor (addressed 'Nick', 'Nicholas', 'Councilor Cla | 2016-08-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So we've talked. About that.
TEXT> I'm wondering, on a school district level, when the school gets a new child enrolled, could something come from the city that includes. Welcome.  Besides just school information, I don't know if we can team up in that way.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: That's a great point. Yeah, because we've been missing that type of information. And people buy houses as soon as they come in to to rent a piece of property

[R8568-286] Guy Santagate | Claremont City Manager (ASR 'Mr. Santiago', 'Santa Gate', 'Guy'; surna | 2016-08-09
PREV> Guy Santagate: have to straighten them out on on what they're talking about here, about how that works. Because it's not that's not a bad sign. Investment first is an expense. Wow. What what are you talking about? I'll give you I'll give you a good example.
TEXT> We're we're constantly on $6.5 million expenditure for the community center. True. It's on the books of liability. Or it's also true is we put about ability worth about 12 or 13 million on the books  as an asset  as a matter doesn't count. So when you take money out of the bank and fix your roof, you, you you didn't just spend $10,000, you moved the 10,000 someplace else. And that's what this is about, an expensive. So sometimes you're an expenditure is good if it has a return on it. And we see that. I was glad to hear the dental clinic. That's another quiet success story in Claremont. Kids can't win when an empty stomach. And we're doing all that. All the toothache. And the dental clinic under Kyle Messier has done a job on that board. I think some of.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That I am Sally in Commerce here and I are meeting this Friday at the live and well and we're we're partners.

[R8577-8] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: that we've already approved. So we only need to do August 3rd. Okay. Do we have a second? Do you have any discussion on the minutes? None. All in favor? I opposed and. Moving on to superintendents report. Thank you and good evening. In just.
TEXT> A few weeks, our our staff will be returning. In fact, our staff are going to be have been already coming in, but officially. And then, of course, after Labor Day, the start of the school year. But in in preparation for that, I'd like to share with you some some very good news.  Several grant awards from the New Hampshire charitable foundation, Wellborn Ecology Fund to support the College of Education in the Claremont unity school districts have been approved for wins. Nature Institute of $5,000 to provide nature program at Maple Avenue Elementary School through a service learning initiative with Stevens High School students, and saw 6300 $0 to continue and expand authentic student environment research through mercury and invasive projects at Stevens High School and the senior program Officer Kevin Pietersen wishes to congratulate us for putting together several proposals to support hands on place based learning in the Claremont Unity District. So it's a compliment to our faculty and administration for being involved with this.  And if you recall,  we have had place based education. This is not a new concept here.  And I think what's Cheryl Ferland? Erica Ferland excuse me. Erica Ferland was a when she was employed at Stevens High School.  Was was a main drive force initially.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And then we had that in the middle school as well as the elementary school. And I'm just very pleased that the the New Hampshire Charitable Foundation continues to support

[R8577-11] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: with Kyle Messier, registered dental hygienist, certified public health dental. I again with the Sullivan County Dental Initiative. And this will information will be going out next month to our students. And, this treatment may need to be repeated anywhere from 6 to 12 months.
TEXT> And if it's done properly, it will greatly assist in the reduction of the speed of a cavity as well as preventing dental decay with the seal it. So that's a big that's a very, very exciting bit of news, and certainly a credit to Carl Messier and the Sullivan County Dental Initiative. Also pleased to announce too, that we are participating,  in the flu clinic for students at no cost. And a the flu clinic dates  are October 6th and October 21st at respective schools. Parents will be contacted  and with their permission. What's interesting to note is that  the nasal vaccine that had been used in the past will not be used, and the data shows that the nasal vaccine was only about 3% effective.  But the most important thing that I want to emphasize to all of you, though, is that  once again,  our objective is to educate and prepare children for their future, but they have to be in school,  and illness certainly is a preventative. Tooth decay or pain in the mouth is a preventative  to achieve the goals of student being successful in school. So  pleased for the partnership with the New Hampshire Immunization Program, with the dental initiative  and where we are going as a school district.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you, thank you. That's that's great. We have a lot of great partners out there. We do. We have a couple of discussion items. Oh I'm sorry. We have

[R8577-13] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: partners out there. We do. We have a couple of discussion items. Oh I'm sorry. We have citizens comments. Open the floor for any citizens comments. Okay. Move along to discussion items. We've got the Claremont School District emergency Operations management plan. During the winter.
TEXT> The Claremont School District, Cornish and Unity District made a commitment to update their  emergency operation management plans, working with the Department of Education,  Homeland Security,  and and attending meetings, as well as accessing resources from the state and the   other resources with the Department of Education,  the administration and  staff  from respective buildings volunteered to update their emergency operation plan. So these documents do not have to be approved by the school board. These are not student handbooks. But seeing Melissa Lewis from Disney and Mike Lansing from bluff are here to talk about the elementary student handbooks. I thought they could at least provide an overview of the  emergency operation management plans. These are documents that are sort of the roadmaps of what we do when there are certain situations in our school and at all points toward the safety of children, the safety of adults, the safety of the school community in conjunction with with the resources of our area. So  Mike and Melissa, thank you and welcome.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: Basically, committee was formed to look at the emergency operation plans of all the schools in SA six. We found them to be in some parts outdated, some parts needed

[R8577-23] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'Please, Melissa | 2016-08-17
PREV> Michael Lansing: I mean, I mean, the reality is we are I feel we're we're well prepared for, you know, a 21st century emergency. And, you know, we hope it doesn't happen. If it does, we know what to do. And that's the best part about it.
TEXT> And you as a board are a key member of that process. You know, certainly creating the policies and procedures that you do.  I know our local PTA and Tose have been very responsive to if we need certain supplies.  So again, we have a lot of partners in this because it's it's the utmost  of concern for all of us. Student and staff safety come first. So it's truly a community effort.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It sounds good. Great job. Yeah great work.

[R8577-37] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; addressed 'Brian' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: Thank you.
TEXT> All right, we'll move on to action items. We've got student handbooks for the elementary schools.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Two and a half weeks ago, you received electronic copies, and then recently, you received another set of electronic copies, saving several trees this way. But Melissa Lewis and Mike

[R8577-47] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'Please, Melissa | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: No is just sticking with the report cards. Is there anything in place? Do we have a policy that would help guide teachers if they notice that there's no activity with report cards and certain information isn't being accessed?
TEXT> I know that we have a policy per se, because it's still very new, but I know what many teachers in all three of the elementary schools did was reach out to some parents if they, had some specific concerns and had seen that they hadn't accessed it, called to say, is there anything I can do? Were you able to access that information? Is there more information? I can provide  teachers also through their newsletters and through our school newsletters. We're constantly sharing that message of at any time, as you go on and see information on Parent portal, give us a call, talk with your child's teacher, those kinds of things. And with the start of school as last quarter, the fourth quarter was really the first goal we had with this, we really will do a lot of work with families so that that first reporting period, which is actually quarter two for elementary because we hold parent teacher conferences first quarter with no paper report card. Quarter two is when parents have their first opportunity to go online through parent portal and actually see a report card. So we'll do a lot of work with families prior to that to ensure that everyone has the ability that they need to to get on, that they're comfortable getting on, and any of the technology resources they need will help with that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay.

[R8577-64] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; addressed 'Brian' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: Great job.
TEXT> Thank you. Great work. We'll move on to Stevens High School.  First faculty and students schedules.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Yes. I'm very pleased to welcome back Pat Barry with the recent events of returning to the 4x4 block schedule. There were some questions regarding the faculty and students schedules.

[R8577-65] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Great work. We'll move on to Stevens High School. First faculty and students schedules.
TEXT> Yes. I'm very pleased to welcome back Pat Barry with the recent events of returning to the 4x4 block schedule.  There were some questions regarding the faculty and students schedules. So Pat was. I asked her if she could come prepared just to give the board an update. And as you know, there are some changes in the program of studies and student handbook  that you had approved previously when we were planning to have an A, B schedule. So Pat is here to bring us all up to date. Welcome, Pat.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Thank you. Passing around just kind of a cover sheet which gives the bulleted pages and a very brief description of the things that we did change in the program

[R8577-67] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: which is a byproduct of the wet photography process when you work in the darkroom, was actually, violating some EPA regulations. So we did some extensive homework around ways to get some, some process in place that could clean that up. But it's cost prohibitive.
TEXT> And the reality is that we're in a digital photography age. So,  because we're in that in between a place where we can't continue the wet process, but we don't have in the budget,  the money's yet to transition completely to digital photography. We're pulling photography for this year and we'll add some more drying sections, etc. so they'll be art sections they are for students to take. It just won't be photography for this year. Then we'll go through the Curriculum Council process for digital photography and build that into our budget.  Same thing with the introduction to Computer programing course. And senior project, both of those when building back the 4x4. The the sign ups were too small for either of those. In senior Project we had seven students. We had we were able to put in another section of honors, nine English, which is a core requirement. And there we could house 9 to 12, possibly 15 students versus seven for senior project. So it was about giving students what they needed versus an elective. We added on page ten the read 180 strategies that we are offering.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Read 180 program and the strategies program that parallels that. And that's for our struggling readers. And to supplement English classes to help build those skill levels for students who

[R8577-68] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Patricia Barry: is a core requirement. And there we could house 9 to 12, possibly 15 students versus seven for senior project. So it was about giving students what they needed versus an elective. We added on page ten the read 180 strategies that we are offering.
TEXT> Read 180 program and the strategies program that parallels that. And that's for our struggling readers. And to supplement English classes to help build those skill levels for students who are below grade level. And then page eight, we talked about we deleted the number of flex time minutes and just talked about flex time. So that should that change over time, we don't have to be beholden to that. And then we took out the daily schedule section that was there previously. So those are the changes to the program of studies.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: What happened with Spanish. Was it three and four?

[R8577-70] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: What happened with Spanish. Was it three and four?
TEXT> Yes. So right now,  we just interviewed that position is still open. We interviewed this morning. So we're we're looking for staffing for that.  Right now what is being offered is Spanish one and two.  And not three and four. I think we had combined three and four, and there were only between the two three students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Okay.

[R8577-72] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: Okay.
TEXT> So,  and because of the way we're going back to the 4x4 and they're not year long, we have to rebuild that sequencing again. So we'll we have healthy sign ups for both Spanish one and Spanish two, knowing that those will probably increase now because students who didn't think they had access to those going into an A B schedule may now have access to that. So what's already healthy number is I believe will be healthier. And then it's looking good that those students would then be looking for Spanish three and four the following year. Okay. And we can offer all four.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any questions. I just had one. Are we going to. Change the add drop period. We're going to because of the changes. Are we going to allow a little bit

[R8577-74] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (second cluster; 'Welcome, Pat' [114] a | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any questions. I just had one. Are we going to. Change the add drop period. We're going to because of the changes. Are we going to allow a little bit extra time for possible changes?
TEXT> Yeah, we had already figured. On a week where before when we did the 4x4. Originally we only had a three day add drop under the a B because students were only seeing that teacher every other day. We extended it to, I believe, seven classes. So we're keeping it at that. Knowing that we're going to have more adjustments needed. Plus we have guidance will be coming in five days before the start of school and meeting with parents and students who need help with their schedules. So and that's every year we bring guidance in five days before the start of school. So parents and students who want to contact and talk and sit down with their guidance counselor have that opportunity as well. But yeah, we are we're keeping that seven day add drop period.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Okay.

[R8577-77] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the only m | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: So I guess we need a
TEXT> Oh, I'm assuming that, you know, a little late for this. Just as a thought for future program studies, I know that we have a required course in computer education ICT. Is that just basic computer technology type stuff?  Would we be kind of forward thinking if we added this introduction, computer programing to make that part of that, to maybe add another credit in there? Because I'm thinking, given the way technology in the world is going,  I, you know, it would be good to be graduating kids with some basic understanding of coding. And,  I mean, obviously not for this year, but I mean, would that be something I'd be interested in seeing possibly added so that this introduction becomes a kind of a required course rather than an elective? Because I think something like that is, is, valuable knowledge for anybody graduating.
NEXT> Chris Irish: In my mind, I was thinking the same line, but I'd like to see it become part of a tech center course at some point. But yeah, more to come

[R8577-102] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat is here to bring  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: much goes into getting things going, but that's the positive stuff that I would just love to see you guys get airtime for that before it happens, even as much so after it happens, just to say it's a it's a cool thing going on.
TEXT> Absolutely. Absolutely. We're going to be taking plenty of pictures of both events. It's all good stuff. And just also a quick update. I met with the chair of our visitation team. Lovely gentleman by the name of Peter Weaver. He's the assistant principal of Raymond High School.  I was very encouraged by his approach to. This is about the 10th chairmanship that he's had of a team, and he approaches this as a way to celebrate our school, not as a gotcha, not as a way of looking at things that are wrong and what we have to improve. But a way for us as a faculty and administration and as a community to look at Stevens High School and to celebrate what we are. So the night of Sunday, October 3rd, I hope you put on your calendars. We will be having around 4:00 our gala.  And so there'll be bands playing and artwork presented and or d'oeuvres served by our culinary students, and we're going to open it to the community.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: The committee is going to hang around for about half an hour. They will have been working all that day, but then they're going to go and check in for

[R8577-134] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent hands off 'Mike' [207];  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Michael O'Neill: to send out an approved RFP in October, so we can get it back to have a discussion during the budget process for fiscal year 18, should it be determined that we need to budget for a possible loss under those RFP that would be
TEXT> budgeted, and we would I would suggest that we continue to with this program improvement review with staff and students during the budget process and make a decision during the winter spring of 2017, in order to have a smooth transition should we decide to transition that way. And again, I apologize for not getting this done, but that's my suggestions at this point.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Okay. Anything from the board?

[R8577-143] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (superintendent hands off 'Mike' [207];  | 2016-08-17
PREV> Michael O'Neill: did for 100,000. I, I never had an intention to save to try to save $65,000, $165,000 job. But I felt that we could come in at a price around that 110 mark. So even at 110 was still saving $55,000, which is not bad.
TEXT> So I would like to recommend that they can get started on it pretty much immediately. We've talked about a staging, a staging situation where they'll do the portion with the students are affected towards the playground first, and they'll stage out of the area where the principals and other people talks already, and you might have to talk somewhere else for a couple of weeks. And because at Maple, there is an area where there's just parking for principal and administration, that area would be not available to them. We're just working on identification of the directions of some of the propane tanks and stuff like that. So before we drive on anything, I'm sure the fire department would like us to know which direction propane tanks were in. And so we don't talk on them. So  that's, any questions on that?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Does that include things like drip Edge?

[R8577-198] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> The first one we had talked about before, transgender and gender nonconforming students and the discussion.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: Policies, because they're not on the packet that was emailed to me.

[R8577-213] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent's report [16-28]; principal call | 2016-08-17
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Okay. Thank you. Sorry.
TEXT> No, not at all. So, I brought I bring you this policy forward for the following reasons. If you look at the last page  of this policy where it talks about the legal references.  Students who are transgender or gender nonconforming have rights. Very clear rights,  as listed on the legal references. So it's very important that we have guidelines in place to be sure that we are not unintentionally,  not providing the rights that that of  these young boys and girls of these adolescents, are entitled to as a result, I think the policy should be in place to provide those guidelines. I know I remember Frank Sprague and I, few years ago were dealing with a matter of something like this, and and we didn't have the law had changed. We didn't have, information in place. We had to do some homework on that. And, and administration of staff should have to do that. So now with the more attention and recommendation from New Hampshire School Board Association, this policy is before you for first reading.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And we welcome any comments or questions. I did not write this policy. It comes with the recommendations of a New Hampshire School Board association. I also, did some editorial

[R8577-230] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - the only m | 2016-08-17
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I know that there are females playing football, with a male be added with a.
TEXT> I mean, I know in the case where the alternative sports not available that they make that that happens like for example females playing football or in the case like there's not a a boys soccer team and a kid, they'll let it. But I was wondering does that does that disqualify in some of the leagues that we play on. Like is that, you know, it'd be nice that we are all inclusive, but then if that ruins our chances in a tournament or, you know.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: My response, I want to say no. But when I'm not sure if something, I'm going to admit it, and I'd like to connect with the New Hampshire.

[R8577-282] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (business administrator: 'what Chris | 2016-08-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Then it's important for people. Claremont no, we're not trying to make money with this.
TEXT> But that was kind of the issue with what we're you know, we just want to play. Last year it was a big issue because there were so many kids playing basketball, so many coaches, so many teams that just wasn't enough gym time. It used to be the JSL, but we've lost that overflow.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I can tell.

[R8577-304] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; addressed 'Brian' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: But I mean correspondent it's a case by case. We just need to, on a website call you.
TEXT> If we could maybe address I know there was there was a challenge with one of the presidential campaigns. They were there  a large portion of the day planning. And I understand that they have things that they need to do. I don't see anything that in in here that would really, I guess, adequately compensate the district for the time spent for the use of our building for something like that. And I would almost feel that. Especially during the day when we have students that are that are there, I know it's nice for them to be able to take part in some of these events, but it is. It is a huge part of the day and people are being affected, whether it's minimal, I understand, but I think we we might be better off having another section for these types of political events and charges. It's something to think about.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Even if.

[R8577-312] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member and SAU 6 Chair (superintendent: 'Becky' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Chris Irish: And maybe.
TEXT> I'm just saying that the minutes, of course, would depend on what they wanted, but I think that there should be an hour. So when you're saying that the Stevens High School auditorium is $150, is that from 6:00 in the morning till ten at night, or is that from six in the evening till 9:00 in the evening? There's a huge difference there. And I think that the, our part should be taken into account, like the multi-purpose room at the Claremont Middle School for $100. Well, what's the time frame? Can I have a quilt retreat over there for three days for $100? I'm just saying that when we talk about that, I think the hour thing is really critical because it's not about those kinds of things are not like the community thing, like we're talking about for kids supporting kids to go practice or something like that. We're saying we're putting it out there that our buildings are available for rent.  And so I think we need to be really clear about a time frame there and what that looks like.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Would you.

[R8577-376] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Michelle' [524] and ' | 2016-08-17
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: I think that's true with all of this.
TEXT> Too much of a challenge. Because if you have a group of kids that are going to do a  bakery, like don't they do the tea room anyway, they have a A to have a little cafe or something.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And they're expanding their the way in which the culinary program is going to use that teal room and open it to the public. That's going to be a focus

[R8577-555] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey Leclerc has do | 2016-08-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Licensed alcohol drug counselor.
TEXT> Thank you. And so they would be available in the high school to work with students who are experiencing substance use, misuse or abuse issues themselves. Or students who have that going on in their home environment.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That was going to be my question.

[R8577-557] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Corey Leclerc has do | 2016-08-17
PREV> Brian Rapp: That was going to be my question.
TEXT> And they also would be working with the middle school, particularly grade seven, for something called Project Alert. It's a Project Alert curriculum. Which helps to to brief intervention program  around drug use, better choices, healthy  choices, positive environments and things of that nature. So this supports the work that's already in place and gives us a little bit more, Resources  in, in those areas. So we would be partnering with an organization called Second Growth. And it's it's kind of exciting that we received this because we certainly have a population of children in our community who would need this support, and we don't  have this fully right now. So we do contract with a crisis counselor at the high school level. Just happenstance. This year we have that crisis counselor for a slightly different schedule than we have in the past. And the fill in happens to, I believe, be a late act.  So, we will essentially be going from 2006, 15, 16, having no late act support in the high school to having, upward of four days a week of laid out support in our high school.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I as I mentioned at the onset, the Department of Health and Human Services is not an organization that I've written a grant with before, and they require that,

[R8648-23] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: and just pleased to be working with the teachers and administrators we do and the community relationships, because at the end of the day, though I do answer to the school board, I really work for the students of our district, with all due respect.
TEXT> That being said, I would like to share with you I received a letter and it's in your packet.  From Norma Limoges, from the  Saint Mary's parish. Wanted to extend deep appreciation to the Stevens High School girls soccer  and volleyball teams. Coach Bellavista. Several high school students, including Nick Dubreuil, Tim Berry and Nick Egan, for donating their time for a community service project, and she was referring to the Saint Mary's Parish  Fair that took place of this past week. So, with their assistance, we were able to raise over $10,000.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Wow.

[R8648-27] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: creates this partnership between businesses, high schools and colleges, and not just for your college ready students, but really for all students, because we're not just talking about those who are going into the Stem field, but also about the career ready skills as well.
TEXT> So there'll be there'll be more information to that. And also there will be a press release coming out soon about Claremont Middle School.  The middle school has launched a three service learning project.  This school year, service learning projects will cover the topics of themes of foster care, kindness, and acceptance, as well as community service. Learning shouldn't be confused with community service. Service learning is a teaching and learning strategy that combines community service and meaningful instruction. So we will find our eighth graders will be focusing on foster care. Seventh graders will be focusing on kindness and acceptance, and sixth graders will be focusing on community preparedness. And this program, during their intervention time will run through  the middle of October, just after Columbus Day. And I think the best way of expressing it is this quoting what Paul Fitzgerald has written, we've been looking for a way to help our middle school students see that they can be of change in their own community. These service learning projects allow teachers to discuss sometimes difficult topics such as poverty, foster care and homelessness with their students in a structured setting, and then gives students the opportunity to develop projects to address these issues.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So the charge of a public school is really reading, writing and math. But it's much more than that. And and what the middle school is focusing on in addition

[R8648-29] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent defers to 'Corey LeCla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the principals have been saying and what I've heard from parents were off to a good start, and I'm sorry. And I would then like to, with your permission, defer what space I have not used up to Corey LeClaire, who has some important messages.
TEXT> Just three things at your seats. The first is save the date invitation for our October 6th community wide event.  It will be held at the Claremont Middle School. We are providing childcare, dinner, and  we can provide transportation upon request as well for those who would like to attend who don't have their own transportation. And it's a conversation related to how we can improve the early learning opportunities for children in and across our community. So if you're able to attend, we would love to see you there as your important members of this process and conversation moving forward. The second piece of information is, a flier that I'm sharing with you for your,  just to keep you in the loop around our teen homework space. It's located at 169 Main Street, which is our one for all location, and that space is open five days a week for middle school and high school students. We have district. Chromebooks there for them to access their district. Login information, their district accounts. Excuse me. And we have tutoring support there five days a week. So any students who need a place to go to complete homework with support in a quiet setting with friends around  that's that's open and available. So that's a resource that we started last year and  are looking to grow this year. And then the third piece of information I shared with you is just a little welcome overview letter for our new AmeriCorps Vista.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Lauren Simpson, she's officially on board now. And the letter just explains a little bit about who she is. And you will be meeting her soon. So I'm looking forward

[R8648-41] Rebecca Zullo | Public commenter, former Claremont School District employee (self-iden | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Open it up to citizens. Comments. Comments? Sure.
TEXT> My name is Rebecca Zullo and I get really nervous talking front of people, so I'm not going to talk a lot. I just wanted to say that I worked for Claremont School District for 15 or 16 years  and had to go back and check, and I have to take a breath because I was so nervous. I'm just wondering how I can help because I have my own personal feelings about how, the school district is going. The direction we're going in as far as staff and students, and I have some major concerns for the people who work here. I want to say that I left the district. I'm. I'm in Lebanon now, and I didn't leave for money. I would have stayed in Claremont for forever. Honestly. So my question is,  and this is hard for me because I love Claremont. My question is for you guys.  How do you think the overall culture  of Sussex is now? And I asked that question and and I don't want anybody to blow smoke and don't feel like you have to answer. But I ask it because I've been here for so long and it's I feel  so awful now. So I just was trying to get some thoughts from you guys. If anybody feels comfortable with answering.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do we still have, our.

[R8648-82] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I think that's awesome.
TEXT> So I'm there quite a bit. I speak to a lot of teachers. I speak to the front office staff, speak to administrators, had conversation with different Paris. So I have a pretty good relationship with a lot of them at Maple Ave. That's good. The culture there, I love it. My kids go there.  I get the same feel from Disney. Yeah. You know, it's it's hard to.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Disney rocks.

[R8648-93] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> Anybody else? Close public comments and we'll go on to discussion items. New Hampshire Food Bank children's community program.
NEXT> Helen Costello: Going to pass these out of using some talking points about the program. My name is Helen Costello from the New Hampshire Food Bank, and I'm here to give a

[R8648-95] Helen Costello | New Hampshire Food Bank, presenting the Children's Community Lunch pil | 2016-09-21
PREV> Helen Costello: to Zadie and to Cindy Stevens. And this Claremont soup kitchen is also a registered agency of the New Hampshire Food Bank. So we were familiar with with them and the Claremont community and the food needs, emergency food needs of residents in in Claremont.
TEXT> So we opened for sites for feeding and, the and offered lunch at those sites every day this summer for 11 weeks for children who wanted to come get a lunch. And those sites were, this is where the partnership with the saw came in. We were able to use the Maple Avenue School  and the Claremont Middle School, and the one for all family place, and then the Claremont Soup Kitchen was the fourth site. And the saw also, Corey was very supportive in in us moving forward as a coalition and  collaborating together to to make this work for children in Claremont.  She had invited the the media out so that the first day they did a really nice story and gave us some exposure to help promote the program. She had sent out a survey to  home to through the district to try and find out if parents would be interested in bringing their children for a meal. Which sites would, would they likely come to? And that type of information that was really helpful for, for us up front. And, they also excuse me, I lost my place for a second here, but, they helped notify students a couple of times  throughout the summer. We hired, two cooks that the Claremont soup kitchen generously  allowed us to use their kitchen there.
NEXT> Helen Costello: Cold and and dry storage space there. Their driver volunteer to deliver meals to the sites for us. And then we also hired to to be a coordinator in the

[R8648-96] Helen Costello | New Hampshire Food Bank, presenting the Children's Community Lunch pil | 2016-09-21
PREV> Helen Costello: us up front. And, they also excuse me, I lost my place for a second here, but, they helped notify students a couple of times throughout the summer. We hired, two cooks that the Claremont soup kitchen generously allowed us to use their kitchen there.
TEXT> Cold and and dry storage space there. Their driver volunteer to deliver meals to the sites for us.  And then we also hired to to be a coordinator in the community because the the food bank were located in Manchester. So to run a remote food service location from Manchester, it was important to have a coordinator on the ground who also recruited and trained and scheduled volunteers  and did the lion's share of the promotion through the through the summer, had some fliers and door hangers developed  that volunteers sent took out to the neighborhoods to try and promote the program. So it was a real team effort with the community.  Our role in the food bank was to set up a remote food service location and to, to supervise that and and generate the funding for it. So in addition to reimbursement from USDA for the summer meals program, we received, some sizable grants to pilot this  and to be able to operate the way we did this summer. So,  I'm pleased to report that as a pilot program, we were able to serve over thousand 300 meals this summer.  And in any our single high day, census, if you will, was 67 children  among the four sites, we think that there may have been  about 100 individual children throughout the summer that that took meals. Not every child came every day.
NEXT> Helen Costello: And people may have been on vacation, or if some days were too hot to come out and people maybe didn't walk over to a site, we count meals. That's

[R8648-100] Helen Costello | New Hampshire Food Bank, presenting the Children's Community Lunch pil | 2016-09-21
PREV> Helen Costello: is with us tonight, and she's the face that will be here, most of the time next summer and working with, you know, all the all the rest of the coalition that's working with this and retaining per diem throughout the rest of the year.
TEXT> So we're starting our planning now for next year, so that we would love to see more kids come out and and get more lunches and work, committed to working and looking for additional funding to ensure that we can operate again next year. So I know that I will say has some  few comments about the volunteers and community.  And Cindy,  as the community soup kitchen  and  the role in the food service. So thank you very much for your time, and I'm happy to take any questions we can.
NEXT> Megan: So what Helen has said is that, you know, we've brought children's community lunch to Claremont, and what she hasn't said is that the New Hampshire Food Bank also runs,

[R8648-101] Megan | Children's Community Lunch coordinator hired by the NH Food Bank (Cost | 2016-09-21
PREV> Helen Costello: know that I will say has some few comments about the volunteers and community. And Cindy, as the community soup kitchen and the role in the food service. So thank you very much for your time, and I'm happy to take any questions we can.
TEXT> So what Helen has said is that, you know, we've brought children's community lunch to Claremont, and what she hasn't said is that the New Hampshire Food Bank also runs, food programs like this in the rest of our state. We are unique, though, because those volunteers we mentioned, we were the only one that has volunteers running our sites. And I'm not originally from Claremont,  and I was unaware until my experience this summer with Children's Community Lunch  how deep the responsibility and care seems to run for taking care of one's own in Claremont.  Our volunteers and these are the ones who I could Chardon write down versus the ones who gave me invaluable feedback, numbered over 40. They wrote some of these were rotating through sites. Some of these went door to door in that heat wave we had in August. Our saw staff was able to provide that familiar face for kids nervous walking in the door that first time. The Bank of New Hampshire. Helen mentioned how they provided funding. They also provided volunteer staff almost every week at each day. Next year, I already have people who I have never met reaching out and saying, how can I help? So as Helen said, our planning does start now. Having gone this summer door to door, church to torch, store to store for various reasons, I've got to experience the response to our program,  and it is truly, overwhelmingly so supportive.
NEXT> Megan: Our one people hesitate to take advantage of it and for the kindest reason, because so many people don't want to take away from those that are more needy than

[R8648-104] Megan | Children's Community Lunch coordinator hired by the NH Food Bank (Cost | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: We'll talk about it later, but,
TEXT> Our success will show when our community thinks of children's community lunch as a place for kids to gather,  to have lunch, to beat the summer heat and boredom and really pass on information. Tell anyone to contact me. I'm sure the fliers are still all over children's community lunch@gmail.com, or a flier has the rest of my information, but all feedback and any involvement is much appreciated.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great. Thank you.

[R8648-106] Cindy Stevens | Managing Director, Claremont Soup Kitchen (self-identified [161]) | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Great. Thank you.
TEXT> So I'm here to talk about the food service portion of it. My name is Cindy Stevens and I'm the managing director at the Claremont Soup Kitchen. So we were approached by saw six and the food bank and, immediately our response was, you know, we were very welcoming. We provide  the, the facility to prepare all of the foods we deliver. The lunches, as they said, we've had nothing but courteous respect from all of the volunteers. And a lot of them were saw,  staff. So we'd like to thank you guys for opening your facilities as well. And we really look forward to, doing this again next year. I mean, as she said, we fed over 1300 children. To me, that's a success.  And, you know, if we have all this time to  promote, we can just make it bigger for next year. And, we our staff was very  on board with helping out. We were able to bring two of our dedicated volunteers on board with the New Hampshire Food Bank, and they look forward to helping out again next year. So I guess we're here to just thank you guys for all of your participation and  allowing us to have this great program within our community.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you for your support. Any questions?

[R8648-111] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Megan: not able to reach out. We certainly hope to include high schoolers. And we had we had high schoolers. We actually did have three, a middle schooler and two high schoolers volunteering at our sites as well, but we certainly hope to expand on that.
TEXT> Thanks. I've got I remember that, you know, this this kind of started, you know, there was a lot of getting the information out with short window. I don't know if this is so this is maybe part question or but I guess to, what, you know, you made the interesting comment about, trying to to increase the, I guess, the comfort for kind of,  you know, student or child participation. So, I mean, it's just it's so it reminds me that, you know, my college town, there's like this popular, like, restaurant like. And every Monday they would do they didn't make it a soup kitchen. I mean, it was kind of a soup kitchen, but it was really it was marketed more like anybody come in because everyone deserves a free meal once in a while. So people would donate.  You would just kind of donate if you wanted to go in. It was it kind of opened it up a bit. And so tied to that. I was curious about what ways that we could be doing, I guess kind of, one thing I saw in Newport that I really liked when I was working there was, at toll with the fifth and sixth grade that, you know, we did.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: They every year they do like a potato. They do a potato drive. Later on they do a can drive as well. But the potato drive is like this big

[R8648-112] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: that. I was curious about what ways that we could be doing, I guess kind of, one thing I saw in Newport that I really liked when I was working there was, at toll with the fifth and sixth grade that, you know, we did.
TEXT> They every year they do like a potato. They do a potato drive. Later on they do a can drive as well. But the potato drive is like this big deal. And they, they try to like donate as much. They try to kind of have these benchmarks. And if they donate a certain amount of potatoes, then they then  everyone gets like a bait. It's like kind of a baked potato party. Then we literally so we these students would literally we would be going down walking from toll down to the Newport Food Bank with, you know, you know, sacks of potatoes, I mean, large amounts. I mean, it doesn't have to be things like this, but, but ways that, that, you know, having, you know, both, you know, food drives are like ways to kind of like bring in issues of, you know, food insecurity where the students are kind of becoming active in it and kind of feel that way. It it doesn't become so much a thing about saying, oh, we don't want to take it's like, you know, this is a community thing. And I guess that was a thought. I don't, you know, I don't know what we do, but I some of these programs I saw that they've been they, they seem very popular in Newport and it seems like it, it really kind of puts a good spirit into the relationship between the students and, you know, the issues.
NEXT> Cindy Stevens: So just to touch base a little bit on that. My children go to Disney. So I deal a lot with, Disney Arts School District. And we've actually done a

[R8648-114] Cindy Stevens | Managing Director, Claremont Soup Kitchen (self-identified [161]) | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cindy Stevens: sometimes I think the kids need to see that to involve them and, you know, let them take the lead a little bit on it. I know my son goes to school and talks about the soup kitchen like it's the best restaurant in town.
TEXT> In fact, it's to the like, I, I actually go into the school and I don't know how many kids say you're the woman from the restaurant  and it's great. And that's all I say to them is, yep,  I'm the woman from the restaurant. And it's a great feeling. And I think really getting them involved is what's going to make this happen. I mean, they see it, they get excited about it. They tell their friends about it. Hey, you know, my mom's working. Let's meet here at the school or, you know, just getting out there and they can have a conversation about it. It's going to be our,  our, our biggest hit. I think.
NEXT> Megan: If I can add to that, there's I've already had Dan cherry at being at Maple Ave has been on board beyond on board. He showed up for the first

[R8648-128] Marian | Student representative, Stevens High School senior and field hockey pl | 2016-09-21
PREV> Marian: experience that kids love. And so she brought back to the high school this plan, and in her NH history class, she has her kids divided up into groups where everyone has a role and they each adopt a Civil War soldier about the soldier.
TEXT> They do extensive research and create a biography about them, and then present it to the class and to the middle schoolers. What's the best part about this is they're using technology to make a QR code, to be able to be uploaded on the middle schoolers iPhones, iPads, iPods, and they're going to go to the cemetery and the Civil War monument so a student can take their phone, their iPad, just  go over it like this, and they get this whole entire biography about someone they've never met, but instantly feel connected through time. I think this plan is amazing, and if you would like to talk more to Miss Lewis, you can reach you at the high school. Any support? If you have anything about Civil War diaries, if you know your family, I know she's going to use, I think it's  Austin Wade, who is the 1866 historian for Claremont,  wrote multiple experts on Civil War soldiers, which is just a great way for us to be connected to our past.
NEXT> Marian: And then for sports, the athletic fall season has gone off to start at Stevens High School. Most teams are almost halfway point in their season, and many are the

[R8648-180] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: with you that during this past school year, the teaching staff of Unity Cornish and Claremont have joined together and have been working on in reading program, new writing units, math program, new report card, vertical content to establish in reading, writing, math and science.
TEXT> Meaning that teachers cross parade across the district, were valued, were supported to meet and so there would be that connectivity and awareness as to what I'm doing in the seventh grade and how that will support my future students when they are in the eighth grade, and how my sixth grade colleagues will do the same. And that's really cross grade connectivity. The teacher Effectiveness Model Math Performance Assessment year two of Smarter Balance full day kindergarten is now in Unity Cornish and Claremont. Cornish is the first year of full day kindergarten, a rewrite of the curriculum and also big ideas at Mat and math at Claremont Middle and rewriting the professional development plan. This was done by our colleagues by the Cornish Unity and Claremont faculty working with the administration. This was a clear example of the professionalism in Sussex, meaning Cornish unity  and Claremont.  And during the summer, because of the Claremont School Board support, we had representatives from Claremont, Cornish in Unity joined and work on curriculum, work, technology, as well as  the rollout of the Professional Development or Professional Growth Master plan. We also had support for our paraprofessionals and as a result of the work that's happened in 1516 and what took place during the summer, I would like to share with you that on the website.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We now have a curriculum website. Work done by our faculty in the three districts is now on our website. And what you'll see is there are certain portions of

[R8648-181] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of the Professional Development or Professional Growth Master plan. We also had support for our paraprofessionals and as a result of the work that's happened in 1516 and what took place during the summer, I would like to share with you that on the website.
TEXT> We now have a curriculum website. Work done by our faculty in the three districts  is now on our website. And what you'll see is there are certain portions of it that are still a work in progress, but there is curriculum work in art, physical education, technology, science, social studies,  health, reading,  math, going off of fast writing,  math, music, resources of the Department of Ed, as well as additional resources to support faculty. What we have on our website now is clear communication for parents, for teachers, as well as for students in the core content areas so parents have access to as this is evolving, if their child is in grade four, they have access to what is happening in grade four math or in grade seven scientist. They have access to what is happening in grade seven. Science teachers likewise  have the opportunity to have clarity as to what is essential. What are the non-negotiables? For example, this is. This page is up in grade. For grade five. It's on writing. And if you go on to the website,  if I'm a grade four teacher, I will know that in my grade my students are expected to have this is a will do I continue so 45 minute writing block a day.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So no matter what school I go to school in, and no matter who my grade for a teacher or grade five teacher is, that's an expectation. Grades K to

[R8648-185] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Then all the schools are identical.
TEXT> That doesn't happen by coincidence. Only when staff are supported to have cross district meetings. And there's clarity as far as what do we want a student to know and be able to do supporting our faculty? If we have district wide agreement involving academic expectations, then and you've seen this before,  this target,  the orange, the red, the blue, the black and white, these are all parts of the textbook are all parts of the curriculum. But there's got to be clarity as to what's the non-negotiables are what needs to be accomplished without question in a particular grade, in a particular subject, as well as the very important. If this isn't clarified, that a teacher with all good intent could be focusing on some unimportant concepts in a curriculum, whereas some essential non-negotiables and the outcome of that is gaps where a where a grade ten math teacher is teaching a course and the grade ten math teacher realizes there were certain gaps. My students have have, computation challenges. They are having difficulty with multiplication, something you would have expected a few years ago as as having been accomplished. So that's the theme behind where we are. We are heading, and I can't tell you how proud I am and appreciative of the Cornish Unity and Claremont staff over the past year for accomplishing this, working with the six administration.
NEXT> Unidentified: With.

[R8648-190] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: by the rubrics that we will be using, not made by individual teachers, but agreed to and established by the teachers. By the way, this isn't being done to them. They did it working with the administration. We've agreed to this at the high school.
TEXT> We're going to be focusing this year on having students get to school, get to school on time and be in school. We are looking for a 93% rate of attendance at Stevens High School.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, sir.

[R8648-199] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Excused or unexcused or just. You're there or you're not there.
TEXT> Excused would not be the student's fault, so it would be excused.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Unexcused, 93%. Excused.

[R8648-211] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him 'to your poi | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, sir.
TEXT> Kind of related to this, but I've always been interested. Is there a way to find the data of these, students that are going on to college? How many of them are actually,  completing college and say in a four year term? Because I think that would also speak to, you know, are we prepare them academically to handle a four year college,  career. I mean, is that something that we've tracked or tried to track? Because I think that would because this is getting into college. The thing is, that first step and then actually finishing is,  I think we're kind of the rubber meets the road. And I think that's also much better representation of their academic, you know, if they're being prepared. And so I'm just is that doable to get that data or is that out there or is that something we've even tried to track?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I'd like to look into that more. I was doing that. We was beginning to do it in Massachusetts, and we used someone from Northeastern University down in bosses to

[R8648-237] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: have targets. And what's going to be critical is how we respond to our students when they're having difficulties or when they need support. So. That's where we are, and we are moving toward excellence, and we're moving towards excellence because of our teachers effort.
TEXT> If not the administration, if the administration and teachers working together, academic achievement goals, pretest and post tests, where is a student in the fall? Where will the student be in January? Not once a year by smarter balance or kneecap, but using that information to intervene to assist the student and then to report it to all of you and to the community, not about individual student, but by the groups and talking about our growth, measuring students reading, writing and math. And here's a key. And Corey, even though she doesn't know this, I'm going to ask you to talk about. A meeting next month at the middle school. But an investment that's going to be critical is before kindergarten. We are moving toward excellence, and  that's not a marketing ploy, I believe it, we have it in place. It's going to be hard work, but I'm confident we're going to get there in a five year period. Yes, sir.
NEXT> Unidentified: Middleton.

[R8648-257] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent defers to 'Corey LeCla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And we're not going to be using the results to point fingers or to blame someone. But as information about where we are and where we're heading. Corey.
TEXT> Please just interject. I think it's multifaceted. So one of the things that we need to consider is that smarter balanced assessments will measure growth because it is relatively new. We're not seeing that as one of the widely reported, attributes of it. It's still looking at performance, but my understanding is it does have a growth measurement component that we will be able to, review and use comparatively with other school districts. I think another thing in Middleton mentioned the pre-K ages 3 to 5 box up there. We have already made a concerted effort to front load our resources.  What that looked like last year at one of our schools, for instance, is every title. One teacher, every special educator was available during kindergarten intervention time. And so for that kindergarten class in that building, I believe there was just a handful of students who were not on grade level. By the end of the year.  We've heard from a few of the first grade teachers this year saying based on their initial assessments at the start of this year, the students are far beyond where they were at the start of last year as a result of the full day kindergarten. And so as we're thinking about how we're doing business differently, because it's not it's one thing to say we're going to be a top five district is measured by growth in five years.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's a whole nother thing to actually arrive there. And so one of the primary ways that we will be arriving there is front loading, the resources we have and

[R8648-262] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him 'to your poi | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: look at this goal, you see Stevens High School. This is a K to 12 goal. It doesn't start in grade nine. But we're not going to wait ten years to get there. We're starting now and every year we're going to see a difference.
TEXT> Just a quick question. Because I know the the main goal from my side there was measurable growth,  right? And there was some talk about grade level proficiency. Is there?  My what what are we shooting at for like a grade level? Are we looking for 100% grade level proficiency before passing kids on, or what are we looking for for level proficiency number? Because I really think that that would make an enormous difference. You know, kids going from first grade to second grade, and he's not proficient in second grade. I really don't see him getting proficient for third grade because already started behind the ball. I mean, is there some I mean, I understand measurable growth is a goal, but do we have some kind of baseline of grade level proficiency that we'd like to see?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We don't yet.

[R8648-267] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent defers to 'Corey LeCla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brent Ferland: Yeah. I'm just I'm just saying, is that part of the.
TEXT> Yeah. So we don't we don't have, those grade level proficiencies established at this point. However, we have done work, and Doctor Goodwin has shared this with you all before around what are the non-negotiables for the grade level. And we've called them essential skills before. Those are the items that are reported out on the report card in grades. K at least K to five right now, possibly K to six. I should know that off the top of my head. But tonight it's fuzzy, so I don't,  and and what we've committed to is ensuring that all students know at least that minimum expectation. And then many students know much more than that. I think that's a conversation we, we can't ignore and we haven't fully addressed yet, in all honesty. And that's something that we need to pay attention to. But at this point where we are  still in large part that  in that phase of establishing baseline data, because we we haven't necessarily had that before. And then I think we can move on to that conversation. Okay. So if they're not where they need to be at this point in the year, what are we doing about that?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we haven't had those. We've had the end of year goals of what we expect all students to learn, but we haven't had the, during the year, like in

[R8648-268] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent defers to 'Corey LeCla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: of establishing baseline data, because we we haven't necessarily had that before. And then I think we can move on to that conversation. Okay. So if they're not where they need to be at this point in the year, what are we doing about that?
TEXT> So we haven't had those. We've had the end of year goals of what we expect all students to learn, but we haven't had the, during the year, like in the first quarter and the second quarter or, and the third quarter identified benchmarks to know if students are progressing as they should be progressing throughout the year. And we haven't necessarily had real clear ways to measure that throughout the year. And that's what we've been building. And that's what we're continuing to build. So we can have those conversations with more, with more clarity and more definitive answers than what I've given you tonight.
NEXT> Unidentified: I believe, I believe, Bret, that.

[R8648-281] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> Is when we, I, I just hear a lot we we it's just very natural that we. We put our conversation we we it becomes so much  about performance and measuring. And because we're trying it, this is anything I this is what I've observed in outside districts. I've heard some parents who have expressed concerns to me about the relation to what they've been seeing with their child in our district. I haven't seen this, but I've seen it. It's a culture I worry about. The,  the amount it's not even the it wasn't even the state assessments like Smart Balance or Kneecap. But add to that the number of seems like these these ongoing reading assessments and the impact of that or I don't we hadn't even gotten into.
NEXT> Unidentified: The right.

[R8648-283] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: The right.
TEXT> But the assessment culture it really is stifling the child's relationship. Why I saw really is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Where did you see this?

[R8648-294] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: You know.
TEXT> You're setting them and looking at the students, but you're not calling them like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do.

[R8648-297] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: You assess or do you not you.
TEXT> There's a difference between assessing for the purpose of of doing it within where the teacher's assessing, kind of looking at the students and then what they're doing assessments and they're passing them on to.
NEXT> Unidentified: What what I, what I've.

[R8648-307] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: But it is it does sound a lot like some.
TEXT> Boogeyman in some other district that you've heard about. I want to talk about what we're doing in our district, and I want to make sure that that as a parent, I've got kids in the district. I want to make sure that my kids are being assessed and they're getting the material, and I want their teacher to be able to see that they've gotten the material. And if they're not, what needs to be done to help fix it?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: I want to make sure, I guess I want to make sure that they're they're having a positive relationship with with learning and not in not becoming a becoming this

[R8648-317] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I do like what Chris said' | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: I want to do is kind of.
TEXT> Bring it back, though. This is where the board I respect the fact that you've got the teachers. It's about the learning. I totally respect all that. But from the board standpoint, we don't get into that kind of depth. But yet to a person, I think this year we have all asked for more data so we can start quantifying whether or not we're growing and getting better. There's no way we could possibly do that. If all we do is say the teachers evaluate their students, we have to find the mechanism that they all funnel so we can see the data, which is what what this is all about. I agree with you. I don't want to see it become every other month. The teachers are are doing things they don't. Really. It's a waste of time to just teach to getting data so we can prove a point. And I think that's what we've done in the past and failed. I honestly, prior to to this generation of it, I think in the past they've done that. We want data and they force the teachers to do things that weren't productive for the teachers.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I think we're now changing that culture, hopefully to give the teachers tools that make more sense to them, that will still produce the data that we need to see.

[R8648-325] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brent Ferland: improve the performance. And you're doing that at a different level. And I just think that's what, you know, when we say test and assessment right away, we think, oh, how fast are we driving? When really there's other, other things that we're looking for.
TEXT> Yeah. So I don't want to go and I'm going to move it off this only because I feel like if I do, it's going to go down a philosophical rabbit hole that, that, that will leave us here all night. But  I did have one. So I just wanted to say that, but I did have one other question, I guess, about this maybe more about the website, but tied to the curriculum because I so I went to check it. Check it out. I guess I'm trying to understand. So the difference between I said we have the parents and student link and the teachers one.  Well, go to look at the curriculum page.  I guess I also know, like, so. So what's the difference supposed to be? I assume that things are not loaded up yet because I'm not seeing.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Still a work in progress. So this is something that we have not had before. We're building it now. In all honesty, we're building the teacher side first because that's

[R8648-341] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: which standards they follow. There are a few cases that I've come across where you can see things to the specificity that we have in the writing folder, for instance, at that level of the specific lessons. But it's not commonplace that I have found.
TEXT> I, I think our curriculum website is more about  the outcome. What do we want students know and be able to do, but it also provides a pathway. Getting there.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: The only person called as a matter.

[R8648-437] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member and SAU 6 Chair (chair asks whether the  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> Told you, can I ask a quick question  about the parent that came in and her student didn't have transportation? How was that going at the SO6 meeting? I do I don't know.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I don't think we can.

[R8648-452] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member and SAU 6 Chair (chair asks whether the  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that without going into specifics. Chris was not at the meeting. Right. So he did not hear the resident. But Chris is working with that resident and and is working toward resolving it. Yeah. Without going into specifics. So it that is on our radar.
TEXT> Right. And that student is able to go to his classes.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: It doesn't matter coming. Home, the matter of coming home, the availability of transportation. And we are close, but we're not there yet. But we're making every effort. It's it.

[R8648-453] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Right. And that student is able to go to his classes.
TEXT> It doesn't matter coming. Home, the matter of coming home, the availability of transportation. And we are close, but we're not there yet. But we're making every effort. It's it. The problem is having a staff member, an employee, be available at short notice when a determination is made at the child's school. Okay. And that's the problem.  It's not really a schedule.
NEXT> Chris: I know it's what you're talking about.

[R8648-465] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris: make the recommendation to bring them back. And at the same time, those students are also sort of maybe interviewing at other places as well. So we've had some success with bringing back to, to to to inform our district placement at the high school.
TEXT> So we feel really good about that. And I think what we really feel good about is  having the high school folks involved on the front end of all of those conversations and going and meeting, and because these are these aren't just kids on a spreadsheet. Yeah, these aren't just  kids on a, with with dollar signs attached to them. These are these are kids. There's families, there's lives involved here. So the more we can get, everybody involved in some of these decisions and discussions, the better. And that goes for the high school that goes all the way to Middleton. Middleton. I will have several conversations about, potential kiddos coming back or potential kids who may need to go out as well. So this is a this is a conversation that just doesn't happen in isolation. This is something that happens throughout the six organization. We take, you know, we take these decisions about bringing kids back or having to, find placements for kids to go pretty, pretty seriously. So we've had two successes at Stevens. We've had one success for, Claremont Middle School.
NEXT> Chris: So we've had three. Been able to bring three back for the beginning of the school year. At the same time, you know, we talked a lot about we have

[R8648-467] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris: were in the process of trying to find them a placement now and again, these are, these are decisions that that get happened, by a multidisciplinary team. With your IEP team, you have, counselors, clinicians, whoever, all based on on the best available, the kids.
TEXT> The child's need.
NEXT> Chris: Based on the child's need. It's based on safety. Can we keep, not only the student safe, but can we keep all the other students in the school safe? And

[R8648-479] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris: the all program can live upstairs here for, for, for a long time, long term. Just like I couldn't live on the third floor. Stevens. Where it did last year. And it probably can't live here at the Tech Center for for a long time.
TEXT> A question, I guess, about, parents. Do you do you find that there is sometimes or  can there be a push for either from home for the to get the student into one of the into in an outside placement? And also, do you find that there could be parents that are fighting to try to get their kids out of the placement back into the school?
NEXT> Chris: I think it runs. It runs the gamut. It's very individualized to family. It's it's, you know, it's it's it's hard. These are hard conversations with with families. These are

[R8648-480] Chris | SAU 6 administrator reporting on out-of-district special education pla | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: either from home for the to get the student into one of the into in an outside placement? And also, do you find that there could be parents that are fighting to try to get their kids out of the placement back into the school?
TEXT> I think it runs. It runs the gamut. It's very individualized to family. It's it's, you know, it's it's it's hard. These are hard conversations with with families. These are really hard conversations. And I always have to approach these conversations with other families as if,  you know, I'm a parent to with, with, with, with and I understand with kids. And so I have to approach these alongside them and be really sensitive to what they're experiencing. And I think they a lot of these families will run the gamut of, of emotions between, yes, I understand and one moment. Yes, we understand what they need, and they need something more than you can offer to do. We really need to do this, you know? So it sort of sort of runs the whole,  and it's just working, working with, with families and being respectful and  and, and and ultimately finding a, a placement that is going to meet their therapeutic and academic needs.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Yeah, I think that's an important point. I know I've brought it up before, but just so we bring it up again, ultimately in a matter what solution we come

[R8648-489] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I do like what Chris said' | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Okay.
TEXT> Have you had any conversations with your counterpart at Springfield High School? We we talked. I'd given Doctor Goodwin his name a while back, but they were they're in a very similar situation, and they're looking at the same conversation we're trying to have. Maybe, you know, they've got a kid that's going further away. They could come here or vice versa. We could at least split, you know, cut the distances or things like that. Have you had a chance to talk to them? I'll make sure I get you in contact with him again because.
NEXT> Chris: Yeah, one of the.

[R8648-500] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I do like what Chris said' | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of the state had this conversation. And and to do exactly as you were saying. And stumbling block was the distance between districts, the traveling time, it's not so much a Claremont issue is it's an issue of just traveling. It just was not viable.
TEXT> Well, my thought is, if you know, we're all close enough together, if I'm if Claremont sending a child 60, 70 miles, so is Newport, so is Springfield. If we do something locally, we're all sending a child 20 miles. Yeah, potentially. And it's, you know, one district may benefit more than the other, but we at that the tipping point of we some point we've got to figure out a, you know, a centralized community based you know the the yellow, you know, lack of a better description, the yellow house but financed by everybody to benefit everybody. So again, if said going 60 miles, we're all going 20 miles.
NEXT> Chris: Yeah. When I, when I asked, you know, last year when I asked that question to a couple of folks that wasn't at that time, there wasn't really a lot

[R8648-517] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'I appreciate Patrick's | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Yeah.
TEXT> To to would it be more to be allowed to just say you know the the student does not require parent guardian authorization? If I mean.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: Yeah that makes sense.

[R8648-541] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: room that corresponds to their gender identity before or after other students. I'm going to propose that we take those parentheses out. And the reason for that is because I think all students should be afforded that. So if we leave it as all any.
TEXT> Student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any student may enter these circumstances may ask for an alternative place to dress. Then I would suggest that any getting down to the last I mean the last four

[R8648-544] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I do like what Chris said' | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: I would agree with that. I would agree.
TEXT> I agree with the concept. I totally agree with you coming from. But there's a part of me, my first reaction is that that's a slippery slope that could easily be abused, for lack of a better word. I mean, this the whole policy is to protect a certain group of people, if you will. You're just saying if anybody's I mean, all of us, I know at one point in time probably  were uncomfortable in a locker room when we were children. So what happens now? You said everybody has that option to opt out of being in a locker room. What are you going to do with the whole, you know, we've.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Been. Doing that. I mean, that's not unusual, actually.

[R8648-557] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: But feeling comfortable in the locker room, particularly considering. It's it's just policy.
TEXT> Extremely important. Every student.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Should feel should have access to an alternative.

[R8648-561] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Must be something to talk about. Is it is it the high school policy? Where would we find something like that?
TEXT> I think it's just respecting individual student differences. And I think most, most coaches I mean, we talk about teachers differentiating and making individual adjustments. Frankly,  for your several years at the high school, has this been an issue we've.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We've had an eye over? I mean, as far as I.

[R8648-563] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: We've had an eye over? I mean, as far as I.
TEXT> Know, I met a student and being sensitive and so that wasn't that dealt with by the. Yeah.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: But I think I think sort of, for lack of a better term, codifying in one of our policies that, that, that that's the way that that should be handled.

[R8648-564] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Know, I met a student and being sensitive and so that wasn't that dealt with by the. Yeah.
TEXT> But I think I think sort of, for lack of a better term, codifying in one of our policies that, that, that that's the way that that should be handled. I think that's appropriate. I do, you know, and I think it says a lot about us as a district that we acknowledge it.  And we, you know, kids have a right to, to, to be comfortable and not comfortable that. It can't be. It can't be sort of played with, you know, you can't go around the edges and, and if a student doesn't feel comfortable that, you know, maybe a coach doesn't fully, you know, give that student what they did, what they're entitled to. And I think that we should get rid of the sort of yeah, it's always been done like this sort. Of  mentality about it. And like I said, sort of find a way to codify that where it's appropriate.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Let me, let me review the policies and see if I can find a policy where that would be appropriate and, and insert that. So let me come back to

[R8648-575] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: They don't challenge it.
TEXT> They  if the law  and the students have.
NEXT> Chris Irish: The liability when somebody gets hurt because the, the the 200 pound linebacker last year is now playing a different sport and it is what it is. It's it's got

[R8648-602] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member and SAU 6 Chair (chair asks whether the  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: No I'm not. And again.
TEXT> I move that we accept the transit gender gender non-conforming students policy as motion.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do we have a second.

[R8648-607] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'I do like what Chris said' | 2016-09-21
PREV> Patrick Adrian: it's just things that that we can accept the puzzle. We just need to make sure that a lot of policies goes accepted to be comprehensive. And they haven't. But the details having to figure out and there could be problems to deal with it.
TEXT> Just to that end. And and to play the devil's advocate because I, I have no issues with where we're going with this, but let's just say it happens. And do the parents and the other students have any say whatsoever? If, you know, pick up Brant walks in and they go, I don't want my child to to have to deal with someone that's that much bigger, stronger, whatever. Do they have any recourse or are they going to say then they pull.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Their kid from the.

[R8648-608] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: say whatsoever? If, you know, pick up Brant walks in and they go, I don't want my child to to have to deal with someone that's that much bigger, stronger, whatever. Do they have any recourse or are they going to say then they pull.
TEXT> Their kid from the.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Sport, but they shouldn't have to either. That's just reverse discrimination.

[R8648-614] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides, calls votes; 'Michelle did ema | 2016-09-21
PREV> Chris Irish: And again, what I'm talking about has absolutely nothing to do with discrimination, has to do with practical application of what potentially could happen, has nothing to do with discriminating against.
TEXT> Could potentially happen is you keep a child from playing a sport because you don't believe that they belong there. I would love to see that show up in court.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I wouldn't.

[R8648-621] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [29-46]; ASR  | 2016-09-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Happening.
TEXT> Without without having a policy. You put the district at risk and you and you have and you put at risk violating a child. Excuse me? A young man or young woman's, a person's constitutional rights.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: It's, you know, it's like the First Amendment. It's a it's a framework. It's a legal framework. We need it. And, you know, we need to have it. And then

[R8679-12] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; 'as chair, I'm not going to al | 2016-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Second.
TEXT> Any other discussion?  All in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Student representative report. I love.
NEXT> O'Brien: It tonight. So the first thing to talk about is Martha mackie continues to support Stevens High School community by addressing David Hardie's economic classes. She deserves to be recognized

[R8679-13] O'Brien | Student representative and Stevens High School senior class president  | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Any other discussion? All in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Student representative report. I love.
TEXT> It tonight.  So the first thing to talk about is Martha mackie continues to support Stevens High School community by addressing David Hardie's economic classes. She deserves to be recognized by her peers in the community. She will be speaking to 44 students from three classes on Tuesday, October 4th during flex, which is our last block of the day at Stevens. Stevens was one of the teams from around the country who participated in the touchdowns for cancer program through MaxPreps, Pledge It and Saint Jude Children's Research Hospital. The program was run through the last three games of September, and pledges were made based on how many touchdowns your team scored. I'm very pleased to say that and looking at the national map of teams that participated, we were the only school in New Hampshire to participate, which is pretty big. We had pledges of $10 for touchdowns and scored 15 touchdowns in three great and three games. So he raised $150, and the high school football programs nationwide raised over $102,000 for these organizations, which is really awesome. I already testing is the next thing. I already testing has started at Stevens High School. It began on September 26th and will conclude on October 6th, with makeup sessions planned for October 7th, October 11th, and October 12th.
NEXT> O'Brien: All ninth and 10th graders are being tested in reading and mathematics. This is approximately 300 students in total. Some students are testing during their English or Mathematics course. For

[R8679-19] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; 'as chair, I'm not going to al | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brent Ferland: No. I'm just pleased that, you're having an event involving doppelgangers.
TEXT> I have a question about I. Ready? This is a it's a new, new test. Any feedback from the students?
NEXT> O'Brien: So far, nothing but positive feedback. Really. So, yeah. It's pretty. Yeah.

[R8679-25] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (asked to fill in for the superintende | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Do you have anything? Do you want to fill in for the superintendent's report, or do you want to let him?
TEXT> I will let him report, but I did have one. Just a reminder for folks. And that is tomorrow evening at, doors open at 5 p.m. for a community conversation around early childhood education and early childhood development in our community, and how we can help  young children learn, grow, and play in our community. So that will be held at the Claremont Middle School. Dinner will be provided. Child care is available also, so there's no excuses why people can't come. And we'd love to have everybody in the community be there and engage in the conversation.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. So we'll open it up to citizens comments. I sorry.

[R8679-198] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'hearing from the chair and | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: So okay.
TEXT> So I just had a curiosity. Do we have any way or do we have any kind of numbers of our athletes, what some of them have done outside of high school? I know my daughter went and she played a year softball championship at Nht, and I know a lot of other kids. Can we get that at some point?
NEXT> Doug: Just kind of cool. I mean, I have to I'd have to, I think, you know, I'd have to talk to a lot of the coaches and try to figure,

[R8679-212] O'Brien | Student representative and Stevens High School senior class president  | 2016-10-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: one that I fully support. And because of the nature of it, and I think also because of the ability for us who are chaperoning to oversee it in a safe and and mindful way. So with that, I will give it to Mr. O'Brien.
TEXT> Thank you. Another thing I want to go over real quick is to go off of the trips, the other trips we had in mind, like the reason why we had all of these, like Washington, D.C., in New York City, we had these in minds because of all the fundraising we have done financially, we would be able to make it to these places. But at the end of the day, we wanted to pick a place where one our safety like it's better. We have like other chaperons. This is a safer place. We're not out in the city, a place that we've never been before. And, we're like, we're not really confined to this one place, but this is like a place where we will be staying and we will be in this general area over how many days we're allowed to stay. But we just thought that this was the best option as a unit of seniors, seniors. So, I just want to kind of go over this and kind of like, if you have any questions, please feel free to ask me. Okay. But, so the general background of this was we were planning on leaving Claremont on Thursday, June 1st for this trip by 9 a.m. in the morning, and we were planning on returning on that following Monday. Students would forgo their unofficial senior skip day to take this trip. The reason why? Yeah.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I'm not sure what to put that one in there, but yeah.

[R8679-215] O'Brien | Student representative and Stevens High School senior class president  | 2016-10-05
PREV> O'Brien: not take that extra two nights? You know what I'm saying? Good bargain. The cost for a night stay will be approximately $169 a night. The accommodations are townhouses, which have two bedrooms, two bathrooms, a kitchen, and the living room and outdoor seating area.
TEXT> Each unit individually can sleep. Six students. And all we really need to do is bring some clothes and a bait and suit. Maybe a sleeping bag. Each group of students would obviously be sharing our townhouse, and we would be giving money to buy breakfast, food items and everything. Another thing is we have like not trying to bring this up again about bragging or anything, but we really wouldn't have to pay many class dues, especially with this trip. Financially it was the cheapest out of the three places with DC and NYC,  so we really wouldn't have to bring much out of our pockets, which we were really thinking about the senior class as a whole. So that's another thing that makes this so memorable, is we get to save a lot of money because of the money that we raised. So we planned activities. These aren't like set in stone, but things we could do while we were there. So Thursday, like relax once we get there and just hang out at the resort Friday, a day at Old Orchard Beach, like swimming, walking the pier. There's a golf course like mini golf something and playing in the arcade down there Saturday, like maybe Fun town, splash town, depending on the weather, or maybe going to see a movie bowling alley.
NEXT> O'Brien: Sunday. Maybe going chilling at the resort for a little bit, opening a soda, chilling around the pool, then going to a gun quick playhouse, and then after, like during

[R8679-217] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'the schedule that Bar | 2016-10-05
PREV> O'Brien: together and just relax as a class and watch a movie together. So the most expensive item will be the transportation. So that's another cool thing about this trip. So I just thought I would bring that to you and have you think about it.
TEXT> And I was very clear with them that my expectation and I knew that the board's expectation was that this would be a democratic  decision and a democratic opportunity in that the vast majority of seniors would be able to go on this trip, and it would not financially exclude a certain group of students. And so they were very mindful of that as well.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And that's that's known that that is the case. Yes. Okay.

[R8679-248] O'Brien | Student representative and Stevens High School senior class president  | 2016-10-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So the theme park and the splash Town are those all paid for? Also.
TEXT> Those are not paid for by this place that we're staying at, but it will be paid for by our senior class with discounts for students.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Wow. So go back to school.

[R8679-251] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'the schedule that Bar | 2016-10-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Every single day. You're going to do something from the looks of it, which I want to go now.
TEXT> And it's enough variety so that, you know, there's not everyone's going to want to swim. Not everyone's going to want to go on rides or it gives students options. If they just want to hang back at the resort and not travel, they can do that. And some chaperons will stay with that group. So it gives enough variety for anybody on any given day to kind of do their thing.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: A transportation. How are we bombing around? I'm from there, so I'm pretty familiar with how.

[R8679-290] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'the schedule that Bar | 2016-10-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: In your packet is is the schedule that Barry provided. And she is here to speak to that. An exciting time for Stevens High School later this month.
TEXT> Thank you. Yeah. What you've got  is still as dense as it looks. It's still the skeleton schedule, and we're going to be filling in which rooms and which people and which students. But basically we have the team of 12 educators, administrators from around New England coming to us at about 10:00 at Stevens on Sunday morning, October 23rd. They'll be met by students who will show them to the work room, which is going to be down in our basement. Tammy Morse's PD room is where they're going to be doing the bulk of their work while they're visiting with us, and they're going to spend their morning setting themselves up, looking at our reports that we have sent to them by 1255 is when we're inviting the public, the school board, parents, the student panel, the teachers all to the auditorium will have the band playing and the choir singing and  all of that. And we'll be having a PowerPoint presentation and a video to open up the, the, the event. And the idea here is for us to talk to this committee about who we are as a school, what what do we want to celebrate? Because Peter Weaver, who is the chair of our committee and he's the assistant principal from Raymond, this is about the fifth NEA's visitation he's chaired.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: His approach to this is this is not a gotcha visit. This is not a what what does Stevens need to do to to to get better, although that is

[R8679-292] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'the schedule that Bar | 2016-10-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: spent them touring the school, shadowing our students, doing an infrastructure tour with our facility director, meeting with the superintendent and you to talk with you about your perspective of the school and parents and teachers and faculty in depth, visiting, eating in our cafeteria.
TEXT> We have one day they'll have lunch in our cafeteria. One day every plaudits. Culinary students will be providing lunch and one day our life skills students will provide lunch for them. And the opening gala, which at 4:00 will have culinary art students from here doing orders. They will be dressed in their whites and they'll come down and they'll serve at 4:00. So it just basically, I wanted to let you know, Monday is a lot of when they're going to be meeting with central office staff, principals, with Steven Holt, with people like, Kathleen Bonnell, Corey, Nate, Chris to talk about our technology,  to talk about, our security systems, all of those big picture items. And then basically they wrap up on Wednesday at noon. We'll get everybody together in the auditorium. They will then give us kind of a wrap up. We won't know what their report says. For about six months. They go back, they write the report, the chair then wordsmiths it, and then we get it back. And that's when we'll know  where we stand on the seven different categories and indicators. So and  we have just to give you an idea, assistant chair is the district administrator from Pittsfield. We have an English teacher from Mount Anthony Union High School in Bennington, Vermont. Guidance counselor from quam, a math teacher from a middle high. A media librarian from Northfield. Middle High principal from Hanover. Principal from river. Science teacher from South High.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Social studies from Bedford High, special educator from Fall Mountain Regional, and a vocational director from Nashua High School North. So and the other piece is obviously they're going to

[R8679-305] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (arrives late after the accident on 93 [353-361] | 2016-10-05
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: are not going to be creating all these different layers. We are going to be taking the work that we have done in the past, our priorities, our values, and then to focus. So it's not going to it's not going to feel like new.
TEXT> It's going to feel like clarity and then clear focus. Example in point will be after a great deal of discussion regarding different values, the committee decided to focus on one statement that they believe captured the direction of the school district needed to take, and a core value to guide it. And this is the statement we are committed to do whatever it takes to expand or increase each student's potential success. That's a very powerful statement. Whatever it takes to expand your increase each student's potential success. More information will be forthcoming at the next board meeting this Saturday. The work continues. It's going to expand. The goal is by November before Thanksgiving. We're done.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any questions.

[R8679-324] Maggie Monroe Castle | Public commenter, Executive Director, TLC Family Resource Center (self | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anyone from the public like to speak up. Please come up.
TEXT> Good evening again. I'm Maggie Monroe Castle, the director at TLC Family Resource Center here in Claremont, and I want to applaud you all, first of all, for even considering this. And secondly, I would I would like to express my support of it.  I, I really appreciate Doctor Goodwin and you all looking at this, TLC Family Resource Center has a mission of promoting the optimal health and development of children and families in our region of New Hampshire, which is Sullivan County and Lower Grafton County. And as you know, and I think has already been cited, Sullivan County has. The second was one of the two highest teen pregnancy rates in the state and is right up there. I don't know if it's one of two, but right up there with sexually transmitted disease and infection. So we do have a public health crisis on our hands. I will reiterate what Doctor Goodwin said there. There is no that I have read or been shown no evidence that when  teenagers are given the opportunity to to get their hands on condoms, that it increases their opportunity to have sexual intercourse. In fact, it does show evidence shows that when those who are already sexually active  are given that opportunity, way more use that opportunity.
NEXT> Maggie Monroe Castle: And so practice safe sex. There is no legal issue about the school providing this, and you may have already received some information. I don't know if that was in

[R8679-367] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination - only board | 2016-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> The opt out program, any parent will be able to allow them to opt out. If the parent chooses, but the child doesn't. Or is a child at 16 can choose without a parent's consent? Does the parent have to? Every parent have to sign?  I heard it opt out.
NEXT> Unidentified: Without doubt program would be that the parent on.

[R8679-369] Willow Maureen | Public commenter, nurse practitioner at Planned Parenthood (self-ident | 2016-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Without doubt program would be that the parent on.
TEXT> The way it works in others in other schools is if there's an opt out program, a parent can opt out of the program and then that child, that teen is not a not able to to access condoms unless they're 18 or married  or have had a child.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So how many other schools are you familiar with this?

[R8679-390] Willow Maureen | Public commenter, nurse practitioner at Planned Parenthood (self-ident | 2016-10-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And how old do they have to be for that?
TEXT> We don't have an age limit at Planned Parent. There isn't an age I Planned Parenthood, and there's not an age to buy condoms in any store. So  you can be 12 and buy a condom at Rite Aid, and there's no opt out. But in a school, it's a, you know, it's under the, under the, the of the school. So there would be so parents can opt out and choose just like they can choose not to have their child participate in the sex sexuality  portion of health class. That's an opt out program. Also.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Good.

[R8679-393] Richard Seaman | Public commenter (uncertain - ASR 'Richard Feynman' at the mic [458] a | 2016-10-05
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Thank you.
TEXT> Just Richard. Just building again on on this policy. The policy is just one component of a larger education that we need to evolve to in this community. The health education program, which we have at our high school and our middle school is behind the times. It's adults wishing that their children were not sexually active. It's wishing that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: If.

[R8679-398] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (arrives late after the accident on 93 [353-361] | 2016-10-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: The board support.
TEXT> Of this policy is step one. It's not the answer at step one, having students be informed is critical.
NEXT> Chris Irish: So just to potentially save time at the next meeting, would it be worth putting the language in now for authorized? Sure. What you said authorized authorized personnel, assuming there'll

[R8679-414] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'hearing from the chair and | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: There. If they end up not being authorized to do it because of an issue, then they're not authorized.
TEXT> So and I want to see the part of me would love to do this tonight because I can't say enough what Middleton Doctor Goodman has already said. I'm so impressed with what you just just stand up there and talk about it. I'm the father of three grown women, and I'm as uncomfortable as I think I've ever been having this conversation in public. In a lot of ways, you're more adult now than I am now, let alone when I was your age. That is very impressive for you to stand up there. And it's because of kids like you that are going to help other kids. And that's what's more important. And I love what you said to. The most prolific thing I heard tonight was teenagers prevent teenage pregnancy, not adults. I'm going to take that and run with it. So between what you said and what you're doing, young lady, is very it brought this to reality. This is the real stuff that we deal with and it's very, very important. And you should be commended. And everybody you've worked with should be it's amazing what you what you've already accomplished and the strength you have to do this. I can't say it enough. You're very, very impressive. Thank you for doing it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I move that we bring this policy to final approval. With the change of school nurse to authorize personnel.

[R8679-436] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (arrives late after the accident on 93 [353-361] | 2016-10-05
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> There were six policies before you, for first read. Access to minutes and public records, student transportation services, video and audio recording on school property, food service management, patriotic exercise, and change of school or assignment. These policies,  some of them are current policies are year old, but they come with recommendations from New Hampshire School Board Association as a result of changes in legislation. So you have the current policy of the Claremont School Board. And then after that current policy, you will see a policy says draft, and that the recommended revision, as before you as a first read.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We want to take these one at a time or all at once.

[R8679-497] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Adrian: 'hearing from the chair and | 2016-10-05
PREV> Brian Rapp: And that is it for tonight.
TEXT> I have one quick feature. Agenda item. Just because I had. They just remind me I want to make sure we get it on the radar. I then contacted by Pat McCabe from the Da association, the daughters of the Revolution there. They're looking for some reason it dropped off the radar in Claremont years ago, but they're looking to get us back in the loop for the Good Citizen award that they give out to a student each year. The she she emailed me last week the package. I should have the packet this week. I'll bring it to the board once I have it, but I do want to get make sure that's on as a future item. So when we get the packet we can start talking about, I don't know much more than that, but it's an award that gives that. I believe there's a scholarship involved in it or just a just an award, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: It's an essay.

[R8706-67] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Patrick Adrian: To you.
TEXT> And as Brian indicated, there will be a discussion later on this evening as far as the protocol for November 2nd. It's really remarkable, in closing, to  be in Stevens High School and the middle school and the elementary schools and the tech center, and to see the students and to see what's going on in our respective schools.  Whether it's the academics, whether it's how students conduct themselves, whether it's the athletics or whether it's the arts. There's a great deal of energy in our district. And,  I do hope that we will be talking more about it. That being said, I had a visit with CCTV today  and  they were interested if I was interested in in being periodically interviewed to talk about the Claremont School District and have that telecast. So Corey LeClair doesn't know this yet, but I thought I'd, I thought I would publicly tell her that I'm going to invite her to be a partner of mine, perhaps not at every presentation or video, but I think it's a great way of the community to learn more about us as individuals, but more importantly and more about what's going on
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: in our district. The successes, the challenges and our efforts to it to address that. It's about communication. And CCTV is a very professional organization, and I think communication is

[R8706-163] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Brian Rapp: Strategic action plan update.
TEXT> Last weekend, we had a another weekend before last had another strategic action committee meeting. And we are making great progress. And in your packet there is a flier, Claremont School District and a five year Plan of Excellence committee invites you to a Claremont School District community conversation. That's going to be Thursday, November 3rd, 6 to 7:30 p.m. at the Claremont Middle School. Doors are open at 530.  And  as you can see, the purpose of this conversation is to solicit input from the Claremont community on important educational issues to consider while building our five year plan of excellence.  A light dinner will be served. Free childcare will be provided, and even transportation is available upon request. So you can see what we're trying to do here. We're trying to level the playing field. Not everyone has motor vehicles. Not everyone has access. And so with enough notice,  we can  expand  our the opportunity for residents to participate. And if you look at the bottom, two weeks ago on Saturday, we came to, agreement. We are going to revolutionize education in Claremont. One student at a time.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Sorry.

[R8706-174] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: results. And when we talk about I already tonight, you'll be able to see very clearly the impact of some of the decisions that have been made at this table and how we are making a difference for our kids. So it's kind of exciting.
TEXT> I will share with you, Brian. You know, I'm not surprised that, you know, there's some confusion. Which forum was this? Because, but I will share this with you last night, at the Nellie May meeting, one of the coaches came up to us and said, you know, the stars are aligning over Claremont. The Nellie May grant is going to allow us to maximize the resources from another grant that's going to be dealing with supporting students and families and our engagement through not only May and then being able to reach out to more  of our residents,  all cross-section of our residents, it's not going to just have them by by sending out a flier. And so, but all of this is all going into one direction. You're not seeing a lot of buildings here. You're seeing one structure that's focused at the end of that. Folk. I,  is the student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The child. Perfect.

[R8706-175] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers him as 'Frank',  | 2016-10-19
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: just have them by by sending out a flier. And so, but all of this is all going into one direction. You're not seeing a lot of buildings here. You're seeing one structure that's focused at the end of that. Folk. I, is the student.
TEXT> The child. Perfect.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R8706-192] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: the test will adjust harder or easier based on whether or not there answer was correct. And what it is intended to do is find what they call their zone of proximal development so that learning range in which they're ready to learn new information.
TEXT> So it's not too hard  that they shut down. It's just it's the just right learning target. And this assessment is designed to figure out what that is.  One of the the primary there are a few primary reasons why we switched to this assessment from NWA, because it allowed for better teacher and parent reports. And I'll show you examples of the parent reports tonight which parents will see. So the reports were clearer. They were more concise. They were easier to access, easier to use, and gave  more  detailed, higher quality information for teachers and for parents. It also allowed for not only the benchmark assessments, which we test all kids grades one through ten this year, three times a year. So fall, winter, spring. But it also allows for a few students who we need to check in on along the way to do progress monitoring assessments. The other piece is that it's very similar to NWA and map in terms of the assessment part of it. So kids were familiar with it. So it wasn't going to be a whole new learning experience for them.  And it's very developmentally appropriate. Some might argue that it's more developmentally appropriate than what we were using in the past.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: There are districts across our country using the assessment with kindergartners, and so it goes lower than the NWA map assessment did and can adjust down for younger, younger learners.

[R8706-193] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: the assessment part of it. So kids were familiar with it. So it wasn't going to be a whole new learning experience for them. And it's very developmentally appropriate. Some might argue that it's more developmentally appropriate than what we were using in the past.
TEXT> There are districts across our country using the assessment with kindergartners,  and so it goes lower than the NWA map assessment did and can adjust down  for younger, younger learners. So the reports we get from this give information at the skill level. Before we didn't have that, and we'll talk about that in a minute.  But it also is aligned with an online instructional module. And what that is, is that students, after they take the diagnostic test,  the software system then knows where they are at, ready for their learning, and creates, online engaging little lessons for them with quizzes. And so that's something that we had not used before in this district. Now, this isn't where we're replacing all teachers with computers by any means. Kids are doing the online assessment approximately 45 minutes per week per subject area. So about 45 minutes a week in math and about 45 minutes a week in,  reading. And in most cases, it's not a consecutive 45 minutes. It's it's split up across the week. And what that does is when a teacher is in a room full of 20 students and they're working in smaller groups, they can have one group of students, 3 or 4 students on computers working on their irony assessment in an engaging format that they can learn without the support of a teacher at that time,  and allows the teacher to work individually with the students who need the teacher's
NEXT> Cory LeClair: support on topics specific to those students. So it's actually, one might argue that it's actually allowing more time for teachers to work with individual students and students getting more

[R8706-196] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: does provide lesson plans for teachers. Now. It provides lesson plans for teachers for another product that we could have purchased. But we didn't at this time. But it also provides lesson plans for teachers to do in their classrooms without any additional product purchasing.
TEXT> And why that's helpful is because our teachers spend a lot of time planning for these small groups, and if  they're able to get high quality lessons for these small groups, and the program actually groups students by their skill deficit areas, if they're able to get these lessons from the program, it frees them up with some time to focus on other areas, and it allows them to have those comprehensive lessons available. So our approach. Oh, that's not what I expected. There we go. Is like I mentioned, the diagnostic three times a year. That's the same that we have done in our district for as long as I've been here. We've done the benchmark assessment three times a year. We have the online assessment or instruction as I mentioned, and then the classroom instruction can happen in core with small groups. It can happen in more small group time and it can happen during our intervention block. And this is not a program that is intended to replace anything we're already doing. It's intended to enhance what we're doing, and they  are designed to work together. So at the elementary level, this is designed to work with the other math and reading programs we already have in place.  The company curriculum associates, who who is the owner of I ready.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They actually work with some of the different math programs and reading programs out there and talk about alignment specifically, and can provide some of those resources. So as they

[R8706-197] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (superintendent: 'Would you like to ad | 2016-10-19
PREV> Cory LeClair: enhance what we're doing, and they are designed to work together. So at the elementary level, this is designed to work with the other math and reading programs we already have in place. The company curriculum associates, who who is the owner of I ready.
TEXT> They actually work with some of the different math programs and reading programs out there and talk about alignment specifically, and can provide some of those resources. So  as they grow and continue to expand, there'll be more information available for us to as to how to better align what we're doing. So I wanted to just take a quick moment to show you what some of the test questions. Might look like. This is an example of a grade. Two  math assessment question. It's very colorful, very interactive. And, there's a little. Sound box up in the corners and students can have the question read to them, and then they have to select the correct answer and click done when they are finished. There you go.  Of a grade. Six reading assessment question.  So what is the correct meaning of the phrase cut like a knife  and some multiple choice options there? And talking to our curriculum folks and some of our teachers, they do. They have noticed and witnessed the increase in rigor as students progress through the questions with correct answers. They have been able to see during the assessment process that we're just finalizing the test, adapt to students, and they've been able to see what types of questions students are being asked. And,  we've gotten a lot of positive feedback about that so far. So I'm sure you really want to see the data more than the assessment, right?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So this is our baseline data. We can't really talk about growth tonight because this is the first time we've taken the assessment. So we can really only talk about

