[R11510-123] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: some as Heather, a couple of disadvantages. But, I guess I'm going to get a sense of the board. Is this something we want to get some public input on, or do we want to make a decision tonight to allow them to go forward?
TEXT> In the seven years that I've been principal, I have never once had a parent or a student say, this is an awesome grading system.
NEXT> Unidentified: Keep it.

[R11510-128] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: To talk first.
TEXT> Josh. Yeah.  Just like from what  Miss Barry has been talking about. And Mr. Gessner, I think like, one of the things that I liked most about, like, the current grading system is the use of, like the competencies, especially in projects and getting to know like what specifically like in my my AP literature class. Like we were working on this like,  weeks long beloved presentation and like, we were able to, like, clearly define and like, see, you know, what we were working on and what we got wrong. And I really like how it's continuing on  within this format, but it's still  fixes the deviation that we see with some of the teachers, because just with like the P of UD for so many different teachers, there's like different definitions for what that is. And that can cause  a lot of strife sometimes between students and teachers. And I think that moving towards an a kind of  or like the A through C format  kind of standardizes it as well as also when it comes to velars classes. I know that there's been some  students and colleagues of mine who have been upset with how the classes transfer onto a transcript as compared to,  a class at Stevenson. I think this makes this more equitable when it comes to like the class ranking and everything.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So for classes as well as well.

[R11510-156] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: And I.
TEXT> Think what Steve is saying and get me, stop me if I'm wrong, is that we want both the what I would want as a parent is I want I would want my child evaluated the same in middle school as they are in high school. In  elementary school, I think it's a and that's what you're saying. That's what I need.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: To the.

[R11510-166] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: App up.
TEXT> Just in case anybody was interested in seeing that aspect of it. I mean, when you go into the app, you would see the current GPA for the number of classes that your student has not cume, but the current quarter that you're in, whatever the course is, you would see the actual letter grade right there as its current, you know, and you could see the assignments and you would actually see that the student got a 75 out of 100 on the assignment or a nine out of ten, and you would see what competency that they were great. On if  you wanted to see the standards. Those are here as well. They're all listed and they even give you  and this is current I mean, it exists now, but again, because we don't generate a final grade, you don't see it, but they even have a new dashboard look where it's just big boxes and it's more colorful and things really, really pop and stand out. So, you know, visually, I think,  you're definitely picking up  with the app versus what you got right now. There's no doubt in my mind about that.  So, you know, I think that's a win to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Few other concerns with the grading system separate from separating this. First of all, I know Richard might agree with me on this is I'm really hyper focused on the

[R11510-167] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: colorful and things really, really pop and stand out. So, you know, visually, I think, you're definitely picking up with the app versus what you got right now. There's no doubt in my mind about that. So, you know, I think that's a win to.
TEXT> Few other concerns with the grading system separate from separating this. First of all, I know Richard might agree with me on this is I'm really hyper focused on the competency, and it bothers me a lot to know that you could fail a competency and pass the course. And the reason why it's important to me is that after high school, grades only matter if you're going to college. But competency and it matters in life. And so that's a huge concern that somehow this is structured so we could have kids not being competent errors and still passing the classes. Another issue I have in particular in high school is retaking tests. I have a huge problem with that. And I've seen negative consequences. And, you know, with my daughter who's in college struggling with the I, it was a real transition for her to be as to focus enough to pass the test the first time, because it was a real habit for her to be able to just go back and figure out what she didn't know and then pass the test second time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And then, the third thing is, is that I, I it troubles me that you can pass the course, but bomb the summative because you can't bomb the substantive anywhere

[R11510-180] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: the whole semester, I'm going to house those assignments in here with their point values where they live. So we do that. And sometimes this essay, this 400 point essay may live in a couple of these columns. Okay. At the end of the day.
TEXT> If Johnny has a 90 here and let's say a 75 here and an 85 here, but a 20 here, we clearly know where the problem is. Right? But we're not going to have to wait until the end of the semester. We're going to see this very early on. Right. So what I'm going to do now with this student is I'm going to the assignments are going to live in here. This is where his assignments are going to be. And I'm not going to work here or here or here. Maybe the other students in the class will have assignments that are focused in these other competencies. But what Johnny's going to work on every day is just this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I finally the continuum.

[R11510-191] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Before you. Josh, did you have a question?
TEXT> So it wasn't. It was again. He came back off because she ended up saying basically what I was going to say.  It was just a personal example. So when I was in a senior year,  chemistry with Miss Altima, who's still up there?  It was not my class. I mean, I had a lot of fun in the labs. I did all the homework. I did not do well on the tests, but I knew the information and was still able to pass because I was able to show in other ways. So that's one of the things I love about competency work, is that the teachers are able to pinpoint, just like here, like where the child is struggling. And I do the same thing in school every day. So I can assign,  certain work that helps that one student while other students are getting where they need the work. So it really focuses on like where the strengths are. So if a kid isn't good on tests, they're not doing great on tests. They have those other opportunities to really get the content they need to get.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Which doesn't exist right now because we call it all formative and we don't bring this is.

[R11510-193] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: Which doesn't exist right now because we call it all formative and we don't bring this is.
TEXT> This makes me happy. As long as I know they have to pass all their confidence again. And this is my last thing, I promise. So,  weighted grades, AP classes, honors classes.  The way I would if I, if I had a magic wand is that I would, I would not weight the classes except for class rank. So,  you know, no matter where you are, you can get on the honor roll. If you stretch yourself  to your limit. But class rank, it should be weighted. And because that demonstrates for higher institution institutions of higher learning where you really are because, you know, a kid could be number one in the class and really not have taken extremely challenging courses.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I just want to push back on that. Back in my guidance days, I had a student and it was Wheelock College, and they had a matrix, and there was

[R11510-198] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: that arena. But I just think as far as valuing achievement, yeah, I think that everybody that's working within their their level and if they're pushing the envelope, they should be rewarded on the honor roll. But class rank I would like to see weighted.
TEXT> Well, a Hanover kid at Wheelock College would be at a disadvantage.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'm just I'm just saying that's.

[R11510-203] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: Okay, but.
TEXT> I just want to say, I've been a parent dealing with WD and,  trying to figure, you know, trying to figure out because your middle schooler is graded on maybe where they should be at the end of the semester. So you, you, you get your, you know, your kids not yet proficient NYP. And my alarm goes off. So I think now with the this little create I mean greater communication letting you know that yes you're you know your child is currently doing okay. You know  so I like the system. I had a question about the other schools, but I guess we answered that. I also like the fact that and I, I  personally believe it always should have, but that homework will count. And I'm hoping that,  maybe kind of across the board from science to math to English to that kind of a standard that. There's another many times where kids will come to school and homework will not be done. So then kids get 1015 minutes at the beginning of class to sit and work on homework, where my child sits at home for hours and works on homework or, you know, Steve's whoever child sits at home working on the homework and for them to show up and have that not count is very, that's not the way the real world works.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Your boss gives you assignment of work. You better get it done by the due date, or else you know you're gonna something that'll be repercussions. So I think this

[R11510-228] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Items that we had on there were kind of the summer program for the credit recovery, in the also, the end of the year update.
TEXT> All right. Yeah. So,  yeah, we have. Already sent out. Letters of invitation to students who had failing grades, but were, you know,  we knew were recoverable because it meant a couple of learning targets or a competency. So who had failing grades in the p p range from first semester. So those letters have gone out. We're starting to get students to already sign up for summer school from semester one. We're compiling a list from teachers  of students who they think are going to be in that category for semester two, and as soon as we  have a good handle on that, we'll send those letters out as well. It will be live. It'll be in person. It'll be a six week program Monday through Thursday  from 9 to 1 on the second floor in the high school. And then Fridays will dedicate to field trips,  and, and field trips that have some kind of an educational but fun component to them within a 30 mile radius.  And we'll set goals with students on Monday that, you know, these are the goals that you are  identifying. You want to meet this week. Then you are eligible for the field trip on Friday.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So we're really excited about that. And we're hoping to do maybe some kind of outdoor classroom or community service component for the students who maybe don't necessarily want to

[R11510-236] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: Yeah, yeah, we'll make that happen. So, Steve.
TEXT> Please, hopefully nobody takes me as being a complete jerk, but I just need some clarification on something on this.  It's six weeks for the summer school credit recovery, and we're calling the the the Fridays basically field trip days. So my real question is, is because I  have a child that will be attending, if they're if they weren't able to complete their coursework and yeah, we can recover their credit. What what is the reward to have that field trip, to be quite honest.  Because that, that that student, you know, should have done it without the little handle at the end, essentially. And then my next question that kind of piggybacks off why we're kind of doing it is, what's the cost per week for these field trips for  several different classes.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Most of them are cost free. I had David Silva do the research on the area of places that had little to no, fees or entrance fees for us to

[R11510-238] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: a good incentive. And a lot of times kids are done in a week or two. You know, because it's just a learning target. Or was one assessment that they, they, they missed. So a lot of these kids, they're there, they're out and gone.
TEXT> But it would be nice if they, you know, still wanted to go up, you know, to, you know, gorge or go up to the,  King Arthur thing and, you know, maybe bake bread for a day with a group of other kids. And we just think that they've had nothing for a year and a half. This is a way, a cheap, kind of easy way for us to give them something.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Think that, I understand the principal and the fact that people have been cooped up. But as far as the weighted grade, is that the same for the student that

[R11510-243] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short acknowledgements and crosstalk from se | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: So my that was my carry is as if.
TEXT> The student was a 4.4.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: For credit for companies. Are they automatically dropping the 1.2.

[R11510-246] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: No.
TEXT> Okay. That's that's what I was looking for for clarification because I don't that really in my mind that's not fair at all because while the AP student is trying to do something harder, they're going to get dinged because they didn't meet that target. But the average Joe student who also did not complete their work is not getting dinged.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, I mean, they're getting ding because they have to be on the second floor of Stevens High School, maybe for six weeks in the summer instead of out, you

[R11510-249] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: And I think we just have to figure out how to get them over the over the finish line.
TEXT> I agree with exactly what you just said, but you just got done telling me you're doing the AP core student. Thank you. That's kind of where I'm going with.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, so.

[R11510-251] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, so.
TEXT> What happens with an AP course, Steve, is you get an extra GPA point for a letter grade. So if you ever see you get a four, you get a three for that instead of a two. So so you get the two. You still get the C. So if you've got a kid that's in a non weighted they get the C. They get the two. You can't put them down to a failing grade. You can't put them down to a D. You know what I'm saying.
NEXT> Unidentified: They understand that.

[R11510-253] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: They understand that.
TEXT> But the way it was described which is what's created the question for me Frank, was that the AP student, if they were to achieve perfect they're down to a four. So you've.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Waited because the 4.0 wait versus the 5.0 wait. So I think there's two different things we maybe were talking about.

[R11510-255] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: Waited because the 4.0 wait versus the 5.0 wait. So I think there's two different things we maybe were talking about.
TEXT> I get that and I'm only talking on the wait here, okay. Because I understand that. But what I'm saying is, is that there is no possibility that the AP student can earn the five if they do their summer work. Correct?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, AP is is I don't think is a good example because once the AP test comes and goes, they're out of the running. If they if they fail that

[R11510-274] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: And you're.
TEXT> You just have to take the AP test in order to get the 5.0 wait. It's an incentive for students to take the test because otherwise students are taking an AP course, getting an AP on their resume, but opting out of taking that AP test, which doesn't give us a sense. Or the student sent a really how well they did.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: A they don't have to pass the test to get the 5.0. That's so it's kind of irrelevance. So if you don't have to pass the test to get the

[R11510-329] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: I do.
TEXT> I but I think it needs to be done the right way. I think, I think that we need to hear the public,  we need to have there were concerns raised.  When we talked about it last time that were legitimate. I'm an elementary person and I'm a middle school person, and I'm a high school person, and my kids are on three different or I've got two different grades. They're on different busses, things like that. I think that need to be kind of ironed out, but I think that we need to commit to begin the process.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I agree, and just we we talked about we spoke about it today in this room first thing in the morning with our A team meeting and, and I, I

[R11510-331] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to get more aggressive and experimental. But you want to make sure you have community by in and understanding and, and and by buying I don't I don't mean that everyone's going to completely agree because that never happens no matter what the issue is.
TEXT> But exactly what and why in the rationale and the interventions are significant. The savings are significant in the for students as part of the plan you just voted in are the most significant driver behind that.
NEXT> Unidentified: So you're not.

[R11510-343] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: can, so to speak. But, it's the what, the, the argument we don't have yet that we haven't vetted is our, our proposal was to put those things in so we would have early literacy so that we would have, also enrichment types of things.
TEXT> And basically when we did the first run of this before, I think there were about 6 or 7 teachers that if we could still have a class size of about 18. And again, I'm going from memory, but but we did a lot of work on it about 18 that we could we could use some of the other teachers in other capacities have interventions in once one school. But the the part we don't have an answer for yet that we would need to have, and that, I think, might be a little bit premature to go kind of all in for the last meeting before summer to break. Right. Is, is that,  we we don't know the, the argument that you want to limit the transitions that students have. So what we would what we would kind of what we were thinking of was having a  bluff. Right. Just because it's the smallest school or it doesn't have to be bluff could be anything. And, and,  we have our enrollment is, I think, two 7300 maple 153 ish or something like that in in bluff. And the layout and the configuration, you might want to have two primary elementary schools.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. And we have several config models. We won't, you know, don't need to get into all of it tonight, but have, early childhood universal pre-K, okay. All the way

[R11510-349] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Multiple busses.
TEXT> And a fourth grader would be sending three different kids to three different schools. I think that's what I hear you saying are part of what you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Said it could be.

[R11510-360] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, I.
TEXT> Mean, I think getting started is a good thing. Maybe, maybe I jumped the gun a bit. But,  I also think it's maybe looking at the comparison of the plan that we talked about with changing the grades at the grade levels at each school, or do we simply look at redrawing the lines? So Disney has so each elementary has a kind of an equal number of students. So you know, bluff doesn't have five kids in second grade. Well it has eight, you know. So do we look at changing the whole layout of the schools. Or do we just look at redrawing the lines for which school your kid goes to?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All all of the we. You're sitting in the same chairs that you're in. We talked about this exactly this morning. And so and that's they both have to happen.

[R11510-368] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: And then no.
TEXT> Matter what. So if you just think of it, you don't necessarily want to balance your classes either. You don't want to have three small two hundreds so that you still need,  hypothetically six first grades when if you at at 16 or 14 students in a grade where you could we net gain. If you say that you know two, two and two for the three schools. If you had  only five sections of 18, right? Or even 17, it's still easier to take in. If for each grade you can just see how you can take those other teachers out  them for the interventions and for other things. That's what we would like to present. We'd like to present a kind of a slate of options, you know, if we have them and also hear those concerns. So we,  it's it's a lot. I mean.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, good, Steve.

[R11510-375] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The any potential reconfigurations and things like that and, and scale things that we can do, we can present that even in the next meeting. We can also present kind of the trappings of, of, of the secondary schedule, of what's at risk of why?
TEXT> Because when we look at our,  our,  our weakest spots academically,  historically have been mathematics  in a few other things, we're okay. And  and we have some other programs that can bolster that. That's it's way on our radar. We're looking for ways at which we can we can ramp those up. But  ultimately, when you get to  a  block schedule at the high school,  and what also what feeds that is,  there can be a lot of breaks where, where  in time between math courses for students and other types of things. So I think we can we can sketch those those out for the next meeting, you know. But  and we can also have a timetable for, for implementation in summer forms. Yeah. I think that's great.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's really. Yeah. It's a start.

[R11527-50] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: A second.
TEXT> Other second. Set  further discussion on the minutes. Okay. Here we go. We haven't done this in a while. All those in favor of approving the minutes of March 17th, 2021 signify by saying aye. Aye aye. Opposed? Perfect. Student representative report.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Valley Regional Technical Center five programs will be offered this summer to middle school students. Registration will be shared next week. The options are culinary, computers and business. Explore your

[R11527-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: where we were when we did have the very few times we had, some spread and we had to quarantine and things like that. But it there were just hundreds of hours that went into that planning and prepping and whatever, and it's paid off.
TEXT> So and I say that with respect to the I know the zeal to, to move forward. But we've been doing this all year and we have been doing it around the clock the last couple of weeks. Like,  like as one principal said, this is our really our fourth first day on April 12th  for this year with new sets of kids, new class lists and and  forth times of charm. Because we're kind of crushing it. All right. So next slide please.  If you look at this and I, I tried to just mark it, we thought it would be about 85% when I sent  this to you folks. I think on Friday we were at 87.  If you look in the lower right quadrant,  in the very last line, in the last circle across, you can see why Maple does have the bragging rights at 94%. Back on Monday  in person, 6% out, 87, 88 at 81 and 70% at Stevens. If you look right above, you can see the percentage increase of of what they've done from everyone has has gained the overall. Excuse me our percentage going up, you know, seven eight.  Points. No matter. No matter what. Which is a lot. We also know that in also in the spirit of this, at our last admin meeting, we we started seeing how we could cobble.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We still had some room on busses. They went back into lists, called parents, made a few other adjustments to get those busses right around 25. Some of them a

[R11527-67] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that. And the the bottom line, actually, do you want to walk through where we are with the with that we the bottom line is we still have leftover money from one, okay. That we have that we're looking to, to we're allocating right now.
TEXT> We have money coming in for,  for allocation to as well that we can use for certain things. And  the larger number and this, this money is up to three years out. The expiration immediately before us for the CARES one is  September. So we're, we're, we're looking at those those final submissions.  But we can do we can, do things with technology, anything that mitigates the gaps created by, by by Covid for the CARES two and the CARES three. So that's what we've been also planning. That's the foundation of our,  if we go forward, two slides of the summer program  where we put initial feelers out that we're trying to have kids come in.  To mitigate gains, open that up to the public, have transportation and things like that, and we'll, we'll we'll talk about that. That's that's one use of that money. The other uses of that money. And that's why Richard can speak to the exact timelines better than I can. But I think it's a good idea to have the  there were so many things we couldn't get to in the capital plan that we spoke about that if we if we had that things like in, in our strategic plan and in the,  you know, in what's  promoted for, for cares, education in general, basically outdoor classroom.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Being able to pivot remotely and things like that. So we could get to some of those outside projects, playgrounds, outdoor seating areas, other types of things that we already

[R11527-68] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: many things we couldn't get to in the capital plan that we spoke about that if we if we had that things like in, in our strategic plan and in the, you know, in what's promoted for, for cares, education in general, basically outdoor classroom.
TEXT> Being able to pivot  remotely and things like that. So we could get to some of those outside projects, playgrounds,  outdoor  seating areas, other types of things that we already have done.  But we can expand on those things. So it would be good to have a group together to, to go through that. But Richard, Richard can speak. To the money itself, you know, and and basically the timeline of it.  Better than I can. But we have an additional. Our hope is to have these things to mitigate the the gaps.  We have planned as the summer we have preschool after school tutoring to to really focus on student,  remediation and catching up. But we also have the ability  to put in put in other things as well. In terms of infrastructure, some of the money, generally speaking, can be allocated towards  anything with  any HVAC types, things that do ventilation. But I kick it, kick it over to my esteemed business manager.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: You've hit it the the additional. Dollars that were just allocated, which is I spend. No, that's not it. Sorry. I'll get there. I spend so much time on these.

[R11527-69] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator (Director of Finance), SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: ability to put in put in other things as well. In terms of infrastructure, some of the money, generally speaking, can be allocated towards anything with any HVAC types, things that do ventilation. But I kick it, kick it over to my esteemed business manager.
TEXT> You've hit it the the additional. Dollars that were just allocated, which is I spend. No, that's not it. Sorry. I'll get there. I spend so much time on these. I should know by now.  The additional money that was received recently, which is two point approximately $2.9 million.  So on top of the 760 which which  superintendent spoke about and the supplemental is that were provided to us, is this 2.9 million? So the the discussion around the 2.9, it's still somewhat robust and trying to be interpreted how we can use it. But basically anything that is related to Covid, whether it be related to  students who have fallen behind additional programing to help students out, indoor air quality outdoor classrooms, outdoor playground or anything that's related that you could tie anywhere into Covid is basically allowed to be  expended through this $2.9 million.  And again, it's a it's an ongoing discussion that is taking place.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I've heard other school districts are saying, can we replace a roof with this money? And the feeling is, well, if the roof has caused a indoor air quality problem.

[R11527-84] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator (Director of Finance), SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: And there's a CARES three. There's a third allocation.
TEXT> Isn't there. Hasn't been an allocation. But with the latest with the latest  I know what they call a bailout bill. Whatever it was really is consideration that because it focused on education and making sure students were up to grade level and  trying to address any losses during the pandemic, they're throwing out a number of three times, two and a half to three times. So it could be seven, $8 million could come from that. We don't have it. It hasn't been brought forward. And understand the money comes into the state and the state then,  administers it out to the schools.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But as it is now, we don't we're not completely clear on what that money can be used.

[R11527-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we can, but we're also aggressively hiring in booking camps and doing all these things. We started this camp that is going to be preregistration all this a month ago, knowing this was coming five weeks ago, like it was more than a month ago.
TEXT> And and now we'll be signing people out, working with the community center to do that as soon as possible. So in the, you know, to look at it in general terms and I don't think it's going to go away. We're we're basically looking at  up to about in of what's coming. We still have we're still taking care of cares one and that that will be fine. Nothing will be on left on the table. You can you can go to the bank on that. But you're generally looking at about $10 million over the next 2 or 3 years, in addition to what we have that can only be used for those purposes. So it's an amazing way to think in open up some of the opportunities we have for students that that people have always wanted to do. But but we can do and we can. We'll do it prudently. That's why I think sooner than later, getting that committee  together, what we did with that committee when we didn't have anything was amazing. So now just kind of we have the same list ready to go and prioritize. And it's how it should be done. And it's it's  we're also not going to, you know, it's not going to be kind of spendthrift time either.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We it's going to align to goals. It's going to do things. And we want to go slow and steady. But we also it's that's an awful lot of money.

[R11527-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: example, I know that the high school has two plans they're looking at for the prom and for graduation. They have an indoor proposal. They have an outdoor proposal. They're trying to meet the timelines to get it out to everyone and things like that.
TEXT> But they I don't I don't think they've come to a decision yet, I don't think  and I know with the middle school same thing we we spoke about it  the elementary school teachers want to have. They talked about social distancing, outdoor  step up days and everything like that. Literally they they have the plans of, of of, you know, how they would have people seated by blankets and stuff outside. So there we're going as, as quickly as possible for that. And you should have at the, at the May meeting, we should have exactly what, what the plan will be. It's in flux. So  I, I don't want to be I want to address those things. I want the public to know that that we're on that. And you will be hearing at the school level as soon as possible. It has been all hands on deck, all and getting kids back for the,  you know, for,  you know, next week. So that's that's been our, our primary goal. We haven't lost site on all of the other things on the we're looking at  programs to assess  student and benchmark students to look at the gains for next year with products that will monitor that and the everything like that as that's coming and being, you know,  put together as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So all of those things are we are at it. And we'll have we also have the competency based. I mentioned that before of the separation between the competencies and

[R11527-118] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: there that, you know. So I don't know, it's just the I think we people are thinking outside the box. I just think we need to keep pushing. So I, I, I, I, I know you guys are working hard. I'm not not at all.
TEXT> So, so but we also ask for proposals.  Address kind of everyone like everyone on the admin team  and other forums and things like that, that. So let's say a teacher said maybe we could have a  maybe something that could go into the summer. So that's why we said we wanted to target this reward. Kids  focus on the gains with the CARES money. But if there was if there was anything that was missed, live performances, everything that opens up over the summer in a theater teacher, a music teacher said, hey, I think I have a bunch of kids who are around and they love to perform, and we do a little concert in the park or things like that. We could we could do that to mitigate those losses of performance. Time for the I mean, we could we can do all those things. The one thing that we have been knock on wood, okay. Very lucky with so far in planning and really focusing on,  the elementary in the early literacy for the summer remediation is we have had a lot of staff commit to coming in and teaching better than we thought, because we have also heard anecdotally and we're trying to mix it up some one part time, some want the whole summer because many folks, including our teachers and the people who do those, they also want to take a break with their families and go off.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's been we've had a great response to that, but I, I will put that out again. If there are other types of clubs or activities, we certainly have

[R11527-119] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have also heard anecdotally and we're trying to mix it up some one part time, some want the whole summer because many folks, including our teachers and the people who do those, they also want to take a break with their families and go off.
TEXT> So it's been we've had a great response to that, but I, I will put that out again. If there are other types of clubs or activities, we certainly have enough funds to do that. And kids certainly did miss out in the regular year for the it can't even pull off that hybrid in a big space. I know what you're saying. So  as soon as that opens up and also for us for seed money, I was a activities director and stuff like that in back in the day. And  if you wanted to start up your club early and promote it to freshmen coming up and other types of things, that I like that idea. So we will push that out.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Mark, is there a specific ones that you're thinking about? So we can kind of because I know CMS is band also meets during sore throat.

[R11527-126] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Follow up. Yeah, okay.
TEXT> I know we had our,  groups before school started that we we were hearing a lot from high school kids that were in band and,  in chorus that were feeling very, left out. So, high school level, I think as much to. Don't forget about that.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: High school.

[R11527-130] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: the marketing, but targeting it to specific students are our students that are in high risk or high need. Are people reaching out to their families to really encourage them? Are we able to identify which students are at higher risk for the greatest disparity.
TEXT> And yeah. So so. We. We two things. One one we we know those students and we we are. We're.
NEXT> Unidentified: All over it.

[R11527-132] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Unidentified: All over it.
TEXT> I we're we're on we're on them as well. And we're on. And we've also  worked closely with what has worked with the community center for.  And we can we can talk about that too, about we're using them like we can mitigate all fees at all, even the registration, all those types of obstacles. And we're willing to do that. But it's important to know as well, when the spirit of the cares money that this is for every one of every strata of every academic, any single person who wants to do this can do it. Picked up at the door.  You know,  it eight to,  for 430 or 5. No, 830 to 5 with a drop of. Sorry. Should have it. It's coming out of my pores. But but all all of that,  anyone can do that. We do know that the students that we haven't seen the the  some we have some students.  Where we haven't had much contact, even going out to the houses, sending social workers to the houses and things like that, and all the suffering  and drop offs that have happened because of the remote type of situation and families, you know,  you know, balancing work and coverage and all those things. We're reaching out to them all, all over the place to to have them come in as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I was I want to take you back on your thought, Heather, just for a second. So one of the things that just popped into my head was, when

[R11527-133] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and drop offs that have happened because of the remote type of situation and families, you know, you know, balancing work and coverage and all those things. We're reaching out to them all, all over the place to to have them come in as well.
TEXT> So I was I want to take you back on your thought, Heather, just for a second. So one of the things that just popped into my head was,  when you want to have people participate in something that's good for them, and I'm speaking in the context of of insurance, say, and you want people to engage in healthy activities, you give them incentives. And so I'm wondering if there's any kind of partnership possible with Hannaford or Walmart where if if kids come and they complete, they could get a a $50 gift card to Hannaford or Walmart. Because all six weeks. If they come, they would get some sort of a, an incentive for, for completion.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we we we do have incentives. We haven't thought around that. You know, we have t shirts, we have giveaways, we have manipulatives, we have, you know, books. Other

[R11527-136] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: For things that the parents can use that that way the parents are motivated to get.
TEXT> Them there. We had about 98 children that pre-registered for this. So.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah.

[R11527-140] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of, you know, traditional camper of the week, other types of things, and, and they're going to make it fun. They have the food service program is going to do barbecues, food like it's it's going to be it's going to be wonderful. So yes.
TEXT> On the camp talk in my correct and hearing that there's some there may be some volunteer opportunity for high school students to earn their,  volunteer credit or their volunteer hours.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. Thank you for thank you for that plug. We're putting that out. And they they do have a graduation requirement for community service. And we're also looking at that

[R11527-141] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: On the camp talk in my correct and hearing that there's some there may be some volunteer opportunity for high school students to earn their, volunteer credit or their volunteer hours.
TEXT> Absolutely. Thank you for thank you for that plug. We're putting that out. And they they do have a graduation requirement for community service. And we're also looking at that as well to try to  potentially we don't think the hours we anticipate, depending on how many cohorts we have and the help that we need is that we want those students to sign up, and we're hoping that they also at the end of what they need for that,  for the grad requirement, which is off their plate for senior year, which is no small thing. As you know, Mr. Sprague, that's off the plate and we may be able to employ them  for hourly on top of that, to make sure we have the staff that we need. And that's that's one of the first populations where we're targeting, along with the certified teachers, the specialists, the counselors at  the nurse, all that other stuff that that's,
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I always fond a willing partner to help. Fund things with the Claremont Savings Bank. Yeah, they have a, a foundation, which I think the applications are probably being accepted

[R11527-154] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: board. I pads like 65. Amazing. Each classroom is outfitted in the district. It has a camera capacity and follows the teacher. It can be used for distance learning. It can be used by the kids to present. And it's just it's just wonderful stuff.
TEXT> And that's what it is. It is for exactly that, for stuff to bridge the gap, the spirit of the grant to. And we've all we've only had a couple meetings so far. I have with  Superintendent Landry and Superintendent Minahan about how we can also look to programmatically, maybe use that technology that each of us now has in the schools to share learning opportunities for kids clubs or  all these other types of things we can do. So we're excited about that part. That's the  after it is,  you know, for future years. But that's that's what the commit would commit, that what you're doing is accepting the money. We have a small match that we have to do, which is $80,000 for the to match to get. It's a 85.  15  ratio. What that that money is already budgeted. We're putting in the same boards that Jeff and his crew have already started. We're just finishing the job with this for 50. So it really is just accepting that getting it in the minutes that it has the blessing of the board and going forward.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R11527-225] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> The the grading is, is,  we have a proposal based on that. That was a that that kept going after Covid, so that that was good.  We can talk about the I think we should on the pay pay to play sports. So we still have that lingering. We have  some,  any existing student that could play that we had before. We have kind of grandfathered in. We didn't want to do that. Well, we came down. It was. Thought I was on a roll there. Mike. So, so sorry about that. So we,  we we should come up with something and really get into,  if we want to,  you know, we can go into the funding of sports and athletics in general. We can talk about some of that at the, at the retreat. But,  in,  in terms of pay to play sports,  in the like, I think we, we know that we have had the issue for middle school teams and other things creep up where we've let people come in. I think we just iron that out, how how we're going to do it so that we start next year,  clean, whether it's a nominal fee or whatever.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We don't want to detract to the degree to which we promote people to come to, to Claremont and eventually play for Stevens, that's one avenue. But we also want

[R11527-228] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are we talking about levels? H is that what.
TEXT> You're where I was on a e e so. So,  exactly what's what are we remediating for? For,  and how we're doing that. I don't know that we can. I can show you the numbers for the next meeting. I think we can. I think we'll have them. I still don't,  one thing about if we go to a traditional grading system, many of the. Once we separate the competencies that I think you'll like in the presentation, many of these things that are somewhat mysterious, including kids, eligibility for sports,  competing against other kids for  sports in different schools and things like that. It'll it'll,  a lot of these things in some way are tangentially related to that.  The,  school safety, we won't have safeguards. I think we've got I think we've got we got at least at least three there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R11527-232] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Unidentified: Those.
TEXT> Grading system proposal play. Pay. To play sports in high school? Students failing due to remote learning and the things of the system?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yep. Yeah. Okay, good.

[R11527-246] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Know not on the meeting agenda.
TEXT> But I'm not, not in the meeting agenda. But so in just for folks at home, that doesn't mean that we're looking to move schools around and everything like that. What we're talking about with that and where we kind of left off with this. We've talked at the elementary level. This was in the quote before time,  right before before Covid, but we're looking at ways in which we could  have more interventions, have better capacity, and have a better bang for the buck in terms of class size, in relation to population shifts, student bubbles and things like that that were wildly swaying class size numbers. So when bluff, you might have a class size of seven and maybe you've had a class size of of 21, that's what we're talking about before. What has to happen in terms of doing that and why? It's a it's a heavy lift and I don't want to alarm people at home. Is there are a.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There are different goals in terms of doing that. So if we were looking for interventions and trying to have like size grade configurations, and that's one thing, no matter

[R11649-16] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: RJ is a two hander, right?
TEXT> Yes, RJ it's funny, the funny thing with with  Jay, he started bowling like a month and a half before we started having a competition. And Sean at the ball and he goes, hey, look at this kid ball. And I'm like, I don't want a two hander ball. And I just, I just don't. So we kept talking about it. I watched him, I'm like, all right, you're on. Yeah. So  I was just he was just so, so smooth.  He was almost like a  natural, which works out good. He played soccer at the school also. And it seems like all the all the athletes Campbell like for, for like they play basketball, they play soccer, they play softball. Any of them, they can always come back and I can teach him how to bowl. So hopefully we get a few more kids this coming year because after next year it could get pretty thin.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We've heard that before though. Yeah yeah yeah.

[R11649-23] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (vice chair by 7/1/2021 per 11720 [048]) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes.
TEXT> I think you've had a student that went on bowling scholarship.
NEXT> Sean: I did. I actually have two. I had to, Ian. Ditto. Fitzpatrick went out first he went and he bowled out in Indiana. He bowled for two years and he

[R11649-24] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think you've had a student that went on bowling scholarship.
TEXT> I did. I actually have two.  I had to,  Ian.  Ditto. Fitzpatrick went out first he went and he bowled out in Indiana.  He bowled for two years and he took a year off and he bowled for another year.  He's back now.  He's actually helps out. When he came down, down to the lanes with us, he turned to a really good kid. Ian Fitzpatrick bowled with me for four years. He actually got a full scholarship at Martin Methodist.  He's done really, really well.  Him. And  so he'll be back for his junior year this coming year.  And he's got a like I said, he's got a four year full ride, which is something that little Claremont, New Hampshire usually doesn't get out of a student, which is nice.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And ditto if I am following Facebook correctly, is thinking about getting his PBA.

[R11649-29] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-06-02
PREV> Sean: It out.
TEXT> That's why. And  one of the things I'll say about bowling is it does it does bring kids in that are a really kind of nontraditional three sport athletes. And,  and  Sean is a gifted bowler himself. I don't know how many 300 games you've had, but it's a lot. Oh, yeah.
NEXT> Sean: 19.

[R11649-40] Nicholas Stone | Applicant for the Claremont School Board vacancy (Ward 3); appointed a | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: A whole.
TEXT> Hello, I'm Nicholas Stone, Ward three that matters here. I'm not sure if city council or not, but, my interest here is I want to help,  have an active role in helping our  school system right now.  Wasn't that long ago. I was there. I graduated in 2018. Currently still at school in Plymouth.  I also  work at a store here in town as a general manager. So for budgeting experience, I do have some in that,  that facet of that system to help kind of, you know, make an operating budget note kind of line by line and how that goes.  And really, my biggest interest in this is to really just kind of help strengthen Claremont's  education system. Obviously, I don't have kids there. I simply just want to kind of, you know, work with all of you guys because from different realms of experience, you know, principal salesman, kind of all that stuff.  And I feel like together all be able to work pretty well with everybody here.  And I think it takes a lot to kind of, you know, serve for public office because, you know, it's it's one of those kind of things where, you know, they were in love with everyone kind of thing.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: And I think it takes a lot especially, you know, having the younger generation get involved in that kind of stuff, which, is something that I've always felt was very

[R11649-59] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: All right.
TEXT> Thank you. So I first wanted to give recognition to Carolyn Tol,  the member of the board who recently passed away,  whether at these meetings or seeing her swimming at the community center, she was always interested in engaged in what was going on with the student community and at Stevens. And it's really sad and a shame that other student representatives in the future won't be able to connect with her. Like the way that I was able to,  and then for the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center.  The tech center inducted 23 students into the National Technical Honor Society.  The students had to excel in their chosen program. Have no student conduct violations and be recommended by a program teacher in order to be inducted. Spring  Perkins, monitoring for the Career and Technical Education by the New Hampshire Department of Education, came back with positive feedback on how well we were doing in our programs. The adult Ed program for adult learners will be continuing through the summer, with approximately 40 adult learners enrolled. And then the Tech Center just partnered with Sullivan County on writing a USDA grant for offering more adult education tech classes to the community  at Stevens. Seniors are rapidly coming to the end of their time at Stevens, with classes ending this Thursday.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Seniors are expected to receive their caps and gowns on Monday if they are confirmed to graduate, and then we'll have graduation practice, senior breakfasts and elementary walk on Tuesday

[R11649-60] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: enrolled. And then the Tech Center just partnered with Sullivan County on writing a USDA grant for offering more adult education tech classes to the community at Stevens. Seniors are rapidly coming to the end of their time at Stevens, with classes ending this Thursday.
TEXT> Seniors are expected to receive their caps and gowns on Monday if they are confirmed to graduate, and then we'll have graduation practice, senior breakfasts and elementary walk on Tuesday and Wednesday with  graduation this next Thursday.  The class officers have also set up  events for students to participate in  throughout the region. And so,  seniors are asked to check their Google Classroom and order to sign up. The Unified Track team did incredible at their state meet.  They had six players on the Unified Team and went against teams like Londonderry, and that had 40 players on the team.  They received third place in the four by 100 meter relay, which had Colton Knight, Wyatt Burke and Zach Bascom.  They received six place in shot book or Zach Pax received sixth place. Sakari Bailey received second place in long jump. Zach Bascom received third place in long jump. Zachary Bailey received fifth place in shot put. A Zach Bascom received fifth place in the 100 meter dash, and then Zachary Bailey received first place in the 100 meter dash. So we have the fastest student in all of New Hampshire.  And then in Claremont Middle School on the  eighth grade celebration night will be held on Thursday, June 17th, and then Miss Finn's social studies class.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: They are starting off the week by finishing their Code War discussion about cyber warfare. They'll be conducting a mock situation room situation where students will debate what response to

[R11649-61] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: received first place in the 100 meter dash. So we have the fastest student in all of New Hampshire. And then in Claremont Middle School on the eighth grade celebration night will be held on Thursday, June 17th, and then Miss Finn's social studies class.
TEXT> They are starting off the week by finishing their Code War discussion about cyber warfare.  They'll be conducting a mock situation room situation where students will debate what response to recommend to the president after a massive cyber attack on the electric grid.  And then they'll end the week by starting their final project, where students will choose a turning point in modern history research. What if, if the outcome had happened differently and then prepare for a turning point? History. That is, my sister is in this class, and I kind of wish that I was in it too.  And then at Bluff Elementary School.  And Miss Seminoles, fourth grade, they've been learning about angles, symmetry, quadrant  goals, fractions, measurements, patterns, and graphing. While learning about this, they decided to do a math outdoor scavenger hunt to incorporate how our new skills with real life objects and noticing math in the outdoors. The students are having all sorts of fun measuring leaves, drawing symmetrical things they see outside, drawing things they find outside that have a cute right enough to triangles, measuring leaves and making a line plot with their data, and how someone can use mass concepts like area and perimeter, division, decimals, and elapsed time in real life on the playground.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: It's been a very fun way to practice their math skills. And then the second braid just finished an extensive animal research, writing and reading project. Students self-selected an animal

[R11649-62] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: drawing things they find outside that have a cute right enough to triangles, measuring leaves and making a line plot with their data, and how someone can use mass concepts like area and perimeter, division, decimals, and elapsed time in real life on the playground.
TEXT> It's been a very fun way to practice their math skills.  And then the second braid just finished an extensive animal research, writing and reading project. Students self-selected an animal and then found themselves information on the habitat, the name of it's young, what it eats, and then any interesting facts that they wanted to share. Once the research was done, they wrote a report, created a diorama of the animal out of clay, and then depicted it to habitat and then presented it to the class. Students has also recently completed a Cinderella Story comparison, where they wrote and kept track of the similarities and differences between the stories, and after they listened to and track the information, they created a poster of their Cinderella story. They've also been planning several end of the year activities. They'll be hosting a Water Day on June 16th for students included in the summer temperature, and have some fun. And the day will also include a picnic lunch of hot dogs, hamburgers, and frozen drinks.  At Disney,  the designer community should be super proud of the third, fourth, and fifth grade students. Students work extra hard during some hot days to show what they know. In the New Hampshire state. Assessment and testing continues this week, with makeups occurring even next week if needed.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: At Maple Ave, a field day is scheduled for June 13th, and then our fifth graders are being involved in a rocketry union. And this week they launched Stomp Rockets

[R11649-63] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: community should be super proud of the third, fourth, and fifth grade students. Students work extra hard during some hot days to show what they know. In the New Hampshire state. Assessment and testing continues this week, with makeups occurring even next week if needed.
TEXT> At Maple Ave,  a field day is scheduled for June 13th, and then our fifth graders are being involved in a rocketry union.  And this week they launched Stomp Rockets and are also looking forward to their picnic celebration at the CMS field later this month. And they're also been preparing the raised beds and preparing for planting.  And then finally, since this is my last meeting with the board, and as a student of Stevens High School, I just wanted to touch upon my experience at Stevens over the past four years. For day one, Stevens offered new experiences and opportunities that I would have never been able to do if I had gone to another school  from spending hours making a three day long presentation in AP lit, to even forming an eel low to study the New Hampshire First Nation primary, Stephenson and faculty were able to match my ambition and more. Well, there were some staff who may have had infamous reputations when I was entering. Almost all the teachers I had were willing to go above and beyond in order to help me further understand a concept, or make sure that I was able to truly do my best work. However, I would be remiss if I didn't mention some of the improvements that could be made.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The same faculty that encouraged me to shoot for the stars and served as a support system throughout high school is rapidly dwindling, either from retirement or to go to

[R11649-80] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: outcomes with our internal measures that we have, and then also having other opportunities to do that so that we're looking at the individual student growth, the kid themselves and how they progress, but also how cohorts are achieving compared to other cohorts in years.
TEXT> Where are our graduates going? How are they  becoming  in in the area? How where are they going  post education and the like?  And also where we are for a district school  grade level and standards  alignment. Okay. Next slide please.  The increasing and individualizing the student time on learning. We had some, some, some things and I'll just say this and you're going to hear it often and, and  I don't think it's try to cliched but but the  there's a lot of and I think Churchill was the person who said it to not, not squander a  crisis on what you've learned. And we have learned a lot in this year of Covid. And some of those takeaways are what we learned about blended learning environments, other types of environments. Absolutely no substitute for the core curriculum. The teacher and the student face to face in person. Not even hinting at that, but how can we accentuate the experience and individualize instruction for different kids? Okay, so how do we manage time? How do we look at school schedules,  content hours, expectations? Per school? Per subject area? And how do we have uniformity of expectation in there. Not micromanaging every, you know, academic freedoms and stuff like that. But but also making sure that we know that we're teaching the same courses in the same ways.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: For example, at the elementary schools, in terms of pacing guides and objectives. Blended learning. Excuse me? Year long classes versus half year classes. And we this is something that's

[R11649-83] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: acronym for the CARES money. Then you have cares. Then you have success or a second elementary and secondary ed recovery. So that that that's your your alphabet soup quiz. But basically what that is and we were and I didn't even look at it.
TEXT> We haven't had time to tell you the truth, but we but we have  all in. Claremont has almost $10.6 million from the beginning of Covid to the end of about 2 to 2 and a half more years after this, that we can allocate some of that is already out of the barn. And we've used we're still spending down our Covid one, never mind our two and three. We're in a place that we can. And again, for the folks at home, this is outside of the budget. It's it's meant to  close gaps in impacts from Covid remediation programs. Our summer program is a good example that we're on right away. I'm going to show you some other things that we're looking at right away.  As well okay. In the next few slides.  School safety and wraparound services.  Sal, next slide please. Just a small in in district special ed.  Same. We have we have the programs that we have we have students all the way back from Vermont and we're growing those.  I  have we have also had recent  to to wishin students.  We had three meetings this week.  Another one I think is coming up  later in this week.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But we had two this week with students in programs that are not full from ours. Tuition. Again, we also had very positive news from the new Goshen, contract. Tuition

[R11649-84] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: programs that we have we have students all the way back from Vermont and we're growing those. I have we have also had recent to to wishin students. We had three meetings this week. Another one I think is coming up later in this week.
TEXT> But we had two this week with students  in programs that are not full from ours. Tuition. Again, we also had very positive news from the new Goshen,  contract. Tuition contract at the first for students coming in to either unity or  Claremont, our  so far have all selected to come to Claremont and  those those are at about 16,000  per student again. So that's  well can easily fit in  our  middle two in middle school, two in high school. Again, very positive news on the revenue side.
NEXT> Unidentified: What's the number.

[R11649-94] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: So. Sorry.
TEXT> No worries. So, next slide please. I think we went through so the governance structure that I was  just referring to before, very simple additions. Most of our schools have toes, active toes in internal leadership councils. What we're trying to do is expand a few members of that. And we'll  send this out in the fall.  Well, in yeah, I'll present again in the August meeting and we'll  send out,  you know, invites any people at home. I've had conversations  with people from the last presentation who were interested in being on a superintendents  council, people  who are in the community.  Going to get back. We want to have  members for that as well. One of the committees that we,  Chair Sprague mentioned at our retreat.  We talked about things particularly about,  when they had a meeting  today with Mark Breslin at the community center, kind of looking at how we we could continue some of our partnership ideas, along with Principal Barry today, earlier. And one of the things that we want to look at is to have committees on how we involve all of the other feeder groups in the community, whether it's art, theater, sports, how, how we're working together to maximize participation in and just getting kids involved. No, no matter what what their thing is. And  and we want that feedback that's going to be one.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We also have another. And that's focused on arts Stem, everything. We also want to try to wrangle that, to borrow a phrase from from from Frank through sports so

[R11649-96] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: again, this is all, federal money that we, we, we put in the grant and it's and we have the opportunity to, increase to accentuate what we've already started with. Outdoor classroom, with play spaces, with active play curriculum in the, in the early grades.
TEXT> And what we're trying to do is get more outdoor classrooms. All right. So if you bend to desired, you know, in the front of the building to the right of the entrance, they have an outdoor  classroom and have always had success with that. Our goal is to explain  other places so that  it is very difficult for us to replace, particularly where there are not airflow mechanicals in terms of the heating and cooling system, to kind of got it and do this and capital meeting coming up tomorrow night actually. Right. So that's that's going to be  the the 10 million will go fast. If we focused it on that. Our focus is on really maximizing  our  educational spaces, as you know, skillfully as we can. We know what these allocations that we have a lot to get, get on right away. And we also know kind of from our work  with,  the, the capital Committee that we, we didn't have, we couldn't do enough outside in spaces. We focused on what was going to break the roofs and everything else with this money, again, not taxpayer money. We can serve both purposes, just generally by getting more students outside, you have more people outside. It's active. It's part of our curriculum anyway. And  and we can also use some of our money to address some of the, the sorely needed  updates  around.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I'll show you another perspective. These are outdoor art and weaving centers and things like that that are in the slides. This was just I thought it was a

[R11649-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: term, crashed a meeting with the elementary principals when they were meeting with the playground rep when, when and active play station rep to go over what, we could have athletically and in in play areas for gym classes, outside climbing towers and the like.
TEXT> This is what he sent us. He also we also told him to give us some renditions, particularly for the elementary and middle,  as well as the high school, which they did. But it would be tougher for the high school. But  these are the next slides.  To  next slide, please. So basically, if we were looking for an allocation ideas and we had him put them together,  and he put the elementary schools on there, I'm sure they're, they're borrowed from other  perspectives, but they're very active. Types of designs where kids,  they're called competitive challenge types of structures.  Kids love them and they could be part of gym classes. We're also looking at traditional things that need  in last year's  last year's budget. A while ago I was like forever ago we met with at bluff and they have a they have some old trees that are  enormous. And  potentially a hazard. We talked about putting in  field or also resurfacing and having some basketball things, any, any structures that you can rotate your specials through, which we already do, where kids have more active and structured  play outside so that those are some of the things we're looking at right away.  Again, these are just as ideas.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Next. Next slide please. The the one on the left is, is bluff the one on the right. And this was an interesting concept. This, rep was, was talking about

[R11649-99] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: some basketball things, any, any structures that you can rotate your specials through, which we already do, where kids have more active and structured play outside so that those are some of the things we're looking at right away. Again, these are just as ideas.
TEXT> Next. Next slide please.  The the one on the left  is, is bluff the one on the right. And this was an interesting concept. This,  rep was, was talking about that's very popular. And I think it's  a very,  very dated. And I'm not in tune with some of the structures.  They have  ninja contests and, and different types of  competitive. You know, I think the popularization TV shows and other types of things, but they model the playgrounds now, like them,  and send it to,  to a Frank Romeo over at  at the middle school. He also is putting,  some proposals together.  Including having  a mountain biking course as part of their. Just on the periphery of the field, really creative, nice types of of ideas to get kids out and active  in. Just a better,  gym component. We're putting all that together to, to just try to try to get kids outside and, and  as well as  lecture areas outside,  you know, adventure ropes, types of courses.  We're looking to see what we can do and how we can do it, things that, frankly, we couldn't even entertain if we didn't have outside one time money  for the next couple of years to really line it up with the plan and take the time to do it right. But there's some substantial improvements that we also know will get used outside of the school day by the community and. Things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Like that. So these are some of the exciting things that we wanted to showcase with you. Next item I have that's somewhat exciting and somewhat so this this is

[R11649-122] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Richard Seaman: in effect, they use the remainder to lower their elementary school property. This is the imbalance of the value of property in each one of the communities. And this is the change from initially when there were what people call donor towns or receiver towns.
TEXT> We don't have donor and receiver town team, or we only have towns that raise money, and either it's offset some of your building or some of your education tax or  it it it does not. And that's the inequity that is being looked at here of statewide property tax is not at all what the initial intention was. And in the case of Claremont, that has a big impact, there's no doubt about it. And the question is to go back and say, okay, where do we you know what, what is a fair amount? And then as as Frank laid out, I just put together the calculation for Goshen for what it cost per student. So what we're charging them for  tuition. So our cost per student is in the 17,005 range of what is a,  the state says we can educate a child at $4,000. Actually, it's a little less. I think it's in the $3,000 range of the 3600, there's no way you can educate a child on $3,600. And that's not just related to poverty. Demographics.  Special education or anything else. There's no way you can have that kind of disparity. There's not a school district in New England that's anywhere near $4,000 per student.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: But that ongoing discussion, ongoing debate is the Claremont cases from before. It's the current case going on, and it's just trying to bring and to meet the needs. The

[R11649-124] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (vice chair by 7/1/2021 per 11720 [048]) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Richard Seaman: to meet the needs. The constitutional needs of every child is guaranteed a free and, quote, adequate unquote education. How do you define that term adequacy. Challenging on its most clear day and just wicked when you really start to dig down through the calculations.
TEXT> I think Hanover spends 27,000 per student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It wouldn't be surprised. It's not far behind. Yeah. And again, the average what's important, there's a distinction between what your average cost per student is and what it costs

[R11649-144] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: Yes.
TEXT> All grades on average a week, which is a great place to start. We hope to roll  some of this out. We want to obviously get this under our belt. We also have program at the at the middle school,  where he hopes to have 60 to to 100  students involved. And they're just they're, they're it's the what has been a little challenging is balancing the the lives of teachers and people committing to it as well in the time. But that program runs  from the 12th of, of of July.  To  to mid-August.  And it has a lot of  an enormous  theater component to it.  It has  a band. It has it's a lot of arts, PE, and obviously remediation for skills and all the it's it's really, really good stuff that they're doing it. I think what's, what's really exciting about,  you can tell how we can get excited about it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We know that this it's going to be successful even in the first year, and we know we're going to modify it and have it and open it up. And

[R11649-145] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a band. It has it's a lot of arts, PE, and obviously remediation for skills and all the it's it's really, really good stuff that they're doing it. I think what's, what's really exciting about, you can tell how we can get excited about it.
TEXT> We know that this it's going to be successful even in the first year, and we know we're going to modify it and have it and open it up. And once it catches on,  we will have it for each year at each level and then expand it  appropriately.  We're also hoping some of the things, particularly,  some of the innovative Steam ideas at the middle,  as well,  really  drive what they've been doing with the project based learning and some of the other things that they have going through out the year with that after school,  interest types of things. We're looking at  how we can make the the libraries  more accessible with more types of machines and formats and makerspace type of creativity to get kids in and around and excited about being in school again. And  obviously, it's great to have the funds to do those facelifts and things like that. That's what we're targeting in this first round of planning with with the money. So,  it's it's really exciting and we're fired up, but we're, we're also, you know, it's a whole other like we will have no summer. So it it's okay, but we're, but we're just trying to try to keep the momentum going.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So one of the things that was really exciting about our, about the summer program is that I, you know, I sit with other assistant superintendents and superintendents at meetings

[R11649-205] Unidentified | Unidentified - asks clarifying questions about the mask motion (possib | 2021-06-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: No mask.
TEXT> With. Social distancing of six feet. No, not even without I. We can go right on the website and find it. Now. Are you talking about,  assembly? Like. Like right. Right now we're meeting. Do we? If we take our mask off, do we have to be six feet apart is what is. I'm just wanting want clarification on that?  And then what if we have,  people that come into our meetings, so they're going to be sitting over there very close to each other or near each other. If we have small children, come in.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Now, there's a motion referred to board members.

[R11649-252] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at all the things that fed the strategic plan and opportunities? I try to have them at the tech center, maybe gather places, a around town, look for folks to come out in, in, in, you know, talk about these ideas as well as others.
TEXT> You know, as, as directed by, by the board. But,  the types of things that we want to look at are the difference between  your, your typical course that we talked about before, say, in the English course of mass math course. Right now at the high school, we have a what's known as a 4x4 block schedule, where you have four classes each semester. And  as a student and as a teacher, you, you teach three of those four.  The average class size, I believe it's 7 to 8 minutes with the flex time and things like that.  I the number I believe is a 119 hours  per semester course. And looking at some of the other models where some of those  what is now a. So even though it's a half year, it is a the equivalent of a year long course. So if you take your year of English, freshman year could be done, for the first half of the year, or it may start in the second half of the year. Then you're done with English and you go through  eight of those, courses. Some of them are quarter classes meet different types of things. So what. We will.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Be looking at and talking about, we've already started pulling some of the equivalencies around seeing and looking at other models, what other people have have done. But we're looking

[R11649-254] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we'll be looking at and talking about and getting feedback on. But we hope to have proposals which we would have to have in a timely manner just from our last board meeting. In order to do this, we want to have a draft proposal.
TEXT> We want to model a few. We want to be ready to do this going into budget season, which begins almost immediately, October, November. And then we're in the throes of it because you have to plan for this. So in order to do this. What are the impacts? We may need more teachers, fewer teachers, different types of things. There are some things  when you're on the same schedule, the advantage of being on the same schedule for the middle high school in Tech Center is you could have people, you could share staff, you could have a natural transition. You could have students in the middle school who are used to that schedule sooner. Whereas right now,  and again this year, absolutely. It's not it's not the norm. So I just.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Want. To clarify. A little bit. Because I'm hearing two different. Things committees and then focus groups. Yeah. So I would the focus groups, I'm hoping. We're, we're looking. For

[R11649-255] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: could have people, you could share staff, you could have a natural transition. You could have students in the middle school who are used to that schedule sooner. Whereas right now, and again this year, absolutely. It's not it's not the norm. So I just.
TEXT> Want. To clarify. A little bit. Because I'm hearing two different. Things committees and then focus groups. Yeah. So I would the focus groups, I'm hoping. We're, we're looking. For example, when we start talking about school consolidation, we're going to be hearing from parents. And one of the big issues is going to be bussing as far as or getting my I've got three different kids and they're going to three different schools. How do I how do I get them there. So I'm hoping that's in the evening so that some of the board members that actually that that work, I mean, I'm retired, but there are others that that work. And I'm looking at Steve, you know,  because I'd like, like him to because I know he's passionate about this. So I'd like him to him to have access to. He may not decide who doesn't want to do it, but at least access to being there for those groups in the evenings. So  they would definitely be in the evening.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. As they were before. And we tried to have snacks. We tried to have daycare. We want to make it accessible for everyone, probably a Monday or Tuesday. I

[R11649-256] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: he's passionate about this. So I'd like him to him to have access to. He may not decide who doesn't want to do it, but at least access to being there for those groups in the evenings. So they would definitely be in the evening.
TEXT> Okay.  As they were before.  And  we tried to have snacks. We tried to have daycare. We want to make it  accessible for everyone, probably a Monday or Tuesday. I want to thank committee. Sure. Sold. America okay. So we we want to have we want to have enough.  Having someone who's done a master schedule on a schedule committee is is a is a plus. So so the,  but that's what we're looking to do to see what it is and how we do it and get that feedback, make kind of,  presentations  as exactly why we're looking at it, what what benefits are there. And, and it aligns pretty clearly with some of our gaps in mathematics and other types of things that have been, you know, spoken about,  for, for a long time. And, and I do think we, we have to look at what we can do, and we also have to look at there's things embedded in the schedules to our,  our it's easy to say to do this, but we also have kids  from Claremont going to Newport okay. For that, for  that tech program, kids from Newport coming to us, other types of things we have to to make sure we have a  way to do and what the impacts are  would be to do that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And, in fact, the middle school already has a set schedule that is very different from what we have at the high school. So we we have three, you know,

[R11649-274] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes. Yes.
TEXT> Steve just thinking ahead. Since we have all this money that isn't costing the taxpayer, you guys obviously know how much I love this realignment and stuff.  Idea. The key thing is, is that, you know, we're concerned about bussing, but in my mind. Hey, if we're going to make it more streamlined, more efficient, and see huge gains with the students, that my understanding is, is we would qualify to be able to use some of the funds there. Correct.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You can you can use the funds there. Okay. So you can use, particularly if it's related to a gap that was created by, by Covid. You can make all

[R11649-275] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: we're concerned about bussing, but in my mind. Hey, if we're going to make it more streamlined, more efficient, and see huge gains with the students, that my understanding is, is we would qualify to be able to use some of the funds there. Correct.
TEXT> You can you can use the funds there. Okay. So you can use,  particularly if it's related to a gap that was created by, by Covid. You can make all those arguments to do that. The important thing to with all of this though is that it has to be sustainable, right. So if,  for example, with the schedule change or with the transportation change, I think we're going to be okay with transportation. I  do,  a schedule change in things like that. So let's say it takes  five more teachers. We want to make sure that we may have that we have the long term outlay for those teachers, what they're teaching, how they're teaching it, and what we need. For example,  we know it was very tough at the high school this year with failures in some kids accessing some kids. You know, it was very impactful  for them to graduate. And they're struggling with that. With credit recovery this summer. It's not just our school. It's all across the state and across the country. In that case, we want to make sure that we have  exactly what are we offering? What's a core elective? What if these are our resources? What do we want to make sure that we have so that kids have the most possible chances and experiences to be successful?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We're going.

[R11649-299] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short remarks from several voices (board mem | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: You start. Yeah. They're available on the community college.
TEXT> High school student.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Today could go on take a course.

[R11649-315] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm not sure if we've covered a or not. Second elementary school realignment, have we?
TEXT> I think I think we I think we have I don't know if there's specific concerns about that. I can I can summarize it. Basically what we're trying to do was look at  ways in which we've had lopsided sizes of school, with about 300 in maple just under that, and, and only 150. And in bluff, the catchment areas need to be looked at and things like that. One of the ideas that was kicked around  again pre-COVID,  when we were going into the budget, was  are there ways to make efficiencies that would max out the results for kids? We were looking at ways in which to consolidate  programs for for kids at different schools. And if we had  a potentially,  pre-K in, in for, for everyone in types of things that we have  at our, our center. And there's a lot we could gain in terms of outcomes with literacy, literacy interventions starting and continuing. And also and this was a big piece that that we we never got enough  time for creating other tracks and academies for very high achieving kids and arts kids and all that. If we're looking at those pathways for a kid for the whole K-12 run,  we might be better served by by looking at those efficiencies to have everyone together and then following cohorts.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The downside that we talked about before was having too many transitions. And I think we we had some we learned a lot in Covid with how we had to

[R11649-318] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: in different schools. That's a nightmare. That's a nightmare, I get it. And I think we have to figure out ways of making that that work. But pedagogically, which is where I'm coming from, given my background, the advantages are just unbelievable to this model.
TEXT> So and, you know, it was interesting going through this last time we remember it. I don't remember all the stories, but some of them I, I heard the history of every school in town and, and how they used to do it this way, where you did have the grade level approach and kids were all the way through together and it's, you know, old wine, new bottles type of thing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So used to be a designer. That's where I did my internship for guidance. And it was fifth and sixth. Yeah.

[R11649-320] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So used to be a designer. That's where I did my internship for guidance. And it was fifth and sixth. Yeah.
TEXT> It's it's been done  and it might, may have been done for just what you had for buildings and facilities and different reasons. And student population was more. But it's it can be done. And we want to make sure it's aligned and it's, it's beneficial for kids. So but okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: All right. Hey pay pay to play. I asked that this be put on because I want to I want to kind of come to not necessarily closure but consensus

[R11649-324] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm not sure. Do we buy their instruments? I don't think so.
TEXT> No, I was going to go there. Eventually. But the point is, is that we're giving a select group of people, and it's basically it's borderline discrimination in my eyes. I have a sport student that doesn't really cost me a lot of money. Fortunately, my daughter, who was very much into band, well, a trumpet clarinet. You start adding up the cost of those. Now, I do understand that there are some that they can use at the high school, instrument wise, that have been previously purchased. There's a cost to maintain them, so on and so forth. So I think it's really about leveling the playing field a little bit, because it seems like you have a couple more activities in the district that are financed more off the taxpayers back than other things that possibly could be. And if we're going to level the playing field per se as to what the taxpayer is responsible for, you either cover everybody except for obviously parents are buying cleats. So obviously footwear is one thing, but we cover pads, helmets, they have to go out for inspection, refurb for football, baseball, kids. They can either use the equipment that we have or they can get their own helmets and bats, so on and so forth.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So we're putting a ton of money into these other things. But then you have once again, your kids in the arts, they're not putting the same type of money

[R11649-325] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-06-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: obviously footwear is one thing, but we cover pads, helmets, they have to go out for inspection, refurb for football, baseball, kids. They can either use the equipment that we have or they can get their own helmets and bats, so on and so forth.
TEXT> So we're putting a ton of money into these other things. But then you have once again, your kids in the arts, they're not putting the same type of money into them. When you're talking. The football team uniforms are not cheap. I'm sure there's a few that get torn every year. I'm sure. I mean, it's a contact sport, so I think that's really kind of where the pay to play sports comes into play is that if you're in that sport, you have a fee essentially to play, because the other people that are doing bowling, what what are they really getting from us? Because it's a bowling ball and shoes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We pay their lineage.

[R11649-346] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I don't necessarily know that there would direct impacts for this year or other years, but I think that's something that the committee agreed that we should look into that get get kind of the facts and just come up with general guidance on that.
TEXT> I do want to say on the other issue, though, Steve, and that this is something that we've already put out to  the principals about the  the cares money. So what would be a great incentive to get kids back in one time? Outlays and things for musical instruments, for, you know, drama things and for other types of things, maybe even to recondition,  other types of things that would again, be outside of the taxpayer. But we can look at programing,  because kids couldn't perform like they would have. They're still trying to now, and they're trying to get some in right now with the right up into the. So we we do. Oh that in a compensatory way. Right. Looking at the impacts from Covid. So that's we already  have proposals. And when I say proposals I mean proposals from the music teachers. They were pretty pretty stoked about the ideas to get more kids in camps and some of those other things that are going on at the middle school. So we we are looking at those things aggressively.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So. So who is on the policy committee, Steve. And who your you're the only board member on the policy committee.

[R11649-371] Nicholas Stone | Applicant for the Claremont School Board vacancy (Ward 3); appointed a | 2021-06-02
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Sure.
TEXT> It's kind of tough where you know, you want to keep kids playing, but they'd be fair to everyone else, too. Yeah. When it comes down to like a safety versus a, you know, what's, you know.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Welcome to the school board.

[R11649-387] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: A full. Flexibility to increase.
TEXT> Well so. Teachers yeah. So that's a that's a great question. So yeah. So every budgeted position some some of we we may need more. You know I'll tell you exactly what we we don't know yet. We don't know.  We do know  what we can apply the esser money for. Right. So for example, if there's a scenario where  we need more teachers for another section of a lot of kids failed math or something at the high school, as long as as long as it doesn't touch the existing budgeted, you know,  if that comes out of SR, I just I want to make sure we have the full complement to do that. And  but again, I don't know that that's going to happen. I do know that we wrote into Esser,  what we what we don't know is we have about 40% more kids out on home school. We don't know when they're going to come back. We anticipate that they're going to come back in a staggered, even though, let's say everything is just completely fine and normal and all set.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I still think people will come back slowly, but we can't afford to not hire in the elementary. It's a it's a good example. I've already allocated one more teacher

[R11649-421] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: midyear. Right. But but what could we do now that we have all this fun, all the funds available? People are still talking about continued surveillance, testing and all this other stuff. We want to be as normal. We haven't changed. We really haven't changed.
TEXT> We went through four iterations, okay, throughout the course of last year, but I don't think we've changed from the first day. We always said even when we pivoted from hybrid the day before the opening of school, we pivoted and said, we're going to pick a date, we're going to go towards that. When we presented that date, we always said we would be back  full as soon as possible. It went from February to March to April to  now being 94% back full,  which we have been since. So  I think it's going to go that way. We're going to be  we're going to prepare for every scenario. But that's that's what we're looking for. The we like the things that relaxed for the summer program a little bit with this announcement and and are more realistic, which we're still prepared to if we have to mask for the summer program, look at the spaces and everything that I don't think we're going to have impacts there. Even with the 180. So are kids at elementary. They're going to be staggered, different shifts in waves that probably still will only be 50 or 60 kids  in a session throughout the entire area of Maple. So we're we're looking pretty good people to put in a lot of time at those scenarios. So I, I think we're going to be good.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: In the fall. Well, I can change.

[R11649-445] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: And I think you've got to go. It's got to be.
TEXT> We're all going. We were talking we had to start that three weeks ago and. Yeah. Yeah. So we'll sit with some high school kids and chat with them probably. All right. We double checked who's coming in. I saw were all there. I saw all the gear ready. All prep people have been working on.
NEXT> Unidentified: I've gone over the past. I've done a couple times in the past. It is. Very. Much a lot of good information. Yeah.

[R11720-73] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - content only: describes p | 2021-07-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: For the for the elementary one. Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> Some weeks we have like almost 200 students. So we're pretty excited about it. And I received a couple today. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So so it's it we're we're we also like that size when we projected we didn't know what we, we we we looked at chunks of 100 in terms

[R11720-82] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: Is the summer program something you guys had before or is this something new that you're putting in place now.
TEXT> So yeah. So it it what we did was morph off of an existing  program that they had. The elementary folks  started with it. That was the frame. And then we met and we,  we knew that we'd have a lot of need. We knew that we would get a decent response. And obviously we knew that it's this seems  this is a no brainer for the funding. Right. So it's exactly for,  recovery for, for for students reactivating, back to school and things like that. So it was a no brainer for using  this as well as some of the rich activities that that we that we have going the other ones where we, you know, I don't want to say we're, we're,  we're excited about, but we the big purchase is the playgrounds. We're waiting for a little bit more clarity from both the feds and in the state to make sure those are immediately reimbursable before we put down large amounts of money. And that's why I showed that slide. It was it was validating to know that everyone is a little bit confused around and looking for clarity across the country as well. From, from that that wrap that was in the upper corners, right from Washington. Okay. Talking about that and advocate.  You know, for the funding. So we're we're we're in a we're in a good spot. So it's it's a.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just for some clarity, though, I think it's different this time because we are providing bussing. Am I correct.

[R11720-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: You go.
TEXT> Be remiss if we didn't really thank the Community Center two for stepping up.  We're using their staff. We're doing it jointly as well. And we have the other cohort.  And this is again, this is the focus was, particularly early literacy for the younger students.  Right away that they were all in. So hats off to the principles for kind of leading the charge for all of it. But we also have programs in a similar  fashion at the middle school, and we have the credit recovery at the high school.  Everyone has something going on, whether that is going to be funded and supported, and a few more field trips and incentive components that we just haven't been able to fund previously. So it's it's exciting, really is nice.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Just to point out Rocco, that's Claremont Unity running a light program.

[R11720-93] Donna Magoon |  | 2021-07-01
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: that's why I asked because it seems to be more of a topic that summer school programs are being advertised, and it almost continues the school program and more of a relaxed environment. So it's just interesting I think it's great get to, you know.
TEXT> Because it used to be right. You were invited to summer to a summer school program, right? It wasn't if your parents chose to have you go. It was, you know, we'd send out invites to students saying, you know, you need to come in for this, but this one's you're right. This one is different. We're saying we're taking anyone, whether you're the low, you know, low falling behind or whether you're high. And we need to do more achievable stuff for you. It's all individualized learning. And so it's it's it's a whole new level. Yeah. It's a whole level. So it's going to be it's really exciting. I'm very excited for.
NEXT> Rocco Ruggeri: Pretty soon those those gaps will be closed and it'll just be school 12 months a year.

[R11720-96] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: as we know, and we have to do that individually. Through the different boards. But we are prepared. Both boards have said over and over, and it's certainly, the intention of the administrative team to open 100% as, as, as regular instruction as we can.
TEXT> Like, meaning that's that's it. And then we're going to see,  exactly what turns, you know, Covid might take or whatever. But that's certainly our intent. Always was our intent.  And, knock, knock on what? It's looking that way. So,  but that's it. But those, those would have to be passed again in individual boards. Not not for this, but I, I don't think we're going to have any pushback from, from board members or parents or students to get back as soon as possible to know. So. But that's it. That's all I had.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just had one quick question or clarification for Richard about the money for the renovation that didn't come out of the Capital Reserve Fund.

[R11720-110] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board member | 2021-07-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So so thanks to the teachers and parents and everybody that's doing everything and appreciate it.
TEXT> I have two kids in it, so I'm very appreciative for it.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Thank you. Oh you have well you know, that's the second piece because we could provide summer school all day. Right. But if you do it from 8 to 1230,

[R11720-111] Donna Magoon |  | 2021-07-01
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: I have two kids in it, so I'm very appreciative for it.
TEXT> Thank you. Oh you have well you know, that's the second piece because we could provide summer school all day. Right. But if you do it from 8 to 1230, the parents, you know, we also have to think about the parents, because the parents also also suffered through Covid, right? And having to lose their jobs and not work and all that. So when we were doing the planning, we said what would work for students and what would work for families, you know? And so that's why we have that that big stick approach from 830 to 5. It's great. Great.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Okay. Anything else? Okay. We can move on to our action items. We need to elect a treasurer. Heard rumor that Josh. So there was a possible volunteer.

[R11720-138] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Vice Chair, presiding (Unity School Board Chair) | 2021-07-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So that's what I'm going to put out. I'm going to I'm going to build it about six. I don't want to overwhelm people. Like it's going to be 5 or 6 that we know of. And then, you know, email for other topics. So.
TEXT> I have a question that may affect everybody or not. Do you have any update on Goshen students?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So where we are with Goshen students is we we had to recently within within the last week, we've gone back and forth on on the way in which we

[R11720-139] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: I have a question that may affect everybody or not. Do you have any update on Goshen students?
TEXT> So where we are with Goshen students is we we had to  recently within within the last week, we've gone back and forth on on the way in which we present the future budgets and  in, in in a raise. Excuse me, an increase in the tuition from what we agreed upon. So  there were without beating it to death, basically part of the exit as I understood it. From our from our meetings from Newport was that there was there wasn't enough clarity on what the race might be. And talking with both boards  throughout the entire process, we started foundationally with  141 for  K to five and  from 6 to 8, 6 to 12. Excuse me, that the tuition would be 153. We increased that 3% this year with an understanding that in future years it would be 3%. And Richard's more astute at this  than I am, but basically they need that to know where their their cap is going to be for where they send to other, if people want to go for other tuitions, that's all they're paying, is what we agreed upon. So we're waiting for the clarity on that. We went back and forth in a couple of meetings and that's where we are. I forget the exact number.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Right. Sure. I'm following you. We agreed on what the raises could be. It's in the contract.

[R11720-150] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Unidentified: There's nothing that you can.
TEXT> Really do with those students to say you need to tell us they can show up where they want to show up, when they want to show up. So.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: But they can't demand that a bus pick them up the day before school starts.

[R11776-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: Recent play was okay. Yeah. Did I miss something? I'm just trying to catch on to. To where the breakdown in communication is. So, we did we discussed.
TEXT> We clarified in the last meeting about the. So we we discussed the option of discussed. We clarified between because there was a kind of misconception about athletic fees in general versus last year. We had a few students who were grandfathered in,  one from Vermont, one from  a neighboring town to play with. That happened because, again, you had Covid going on. You had other things going on. In the Vermont case at that time, there was a restriction. It was an easier call. But we did allow in the spring, I believe we had people continue. But it's it's something that we talked about looking at for to have a policy first. So if we in the the upside and the downside as we discuss and people chime in, but  it's it's an opportunity, as you're saying, as a recruiting vehicle, but it also even when people pay their way. And that's what we did in those two cases last year, we just divided the total cost and the people did pay. There was still the issue of potentially if there was a cutting situation or bumping a kid, and what is actually the property and value with the town. It's a it's a thorny issue. I mean, it's not no one. Everyone wants opportunities for kids, but it was the overall equity. And that's why we, as I remember, we were going to revisit it in committee. But I mean you can I  don't.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Meant before. I think with the time frame that we're dealing with, it is fact that they are conditioning for football. How many children are we looking at.

[R11776-22] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: kind. Those were easier decisions. That's why this one's got is a little layered. So and I haven't talked specifically to either a D about impacts and pushing. You know, if, if our kids would lose out and I haven't, I haven't gone that far.
TEXT> Can I bring up the fact that that our the hockey program in, in Stevens combines with a couple of other PSUs to feel the team. I don't see this being I see this being a relatively similar situation to that.  And it's football, guys. It's not like basketball where there's only five people at the corner, there's 22 people on the field at the same time. In order for you to cut kids on a football team, let's hope we get to that point. It's not the that's not where you guys are at right now. I don't.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Think that. Okay. Tell you.

[R11776-26] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael: it's just a stupid river. They go to a really small school, you know, basketball. They can barely feel the basketball team. That's how small the school is. But yet there's this group of friends that loves to play sports. Let's. Let's let them play.
TEXT> Being a former little tight football player that played tackle, I can tell you one thing. Going from seventh and eighth grade to high school and getting popped by a high school kid. Yes, if you don't have that integration at those younger ages, it's going to deter students or children from wanting to play a great game.  I, as a board member, I'm okay with our district giving approval if it's up to the board. Obviously, at that point.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And my consensus that I don't just talk at all, I would have to agree with Stephen. Mister Nick would probably be able to give testimony to that.

[R11776-32] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Athletic.
TEXT> Athletic people.  It's under citizens comments. It's not an action. It's not warned. It's not warned as an action item. Do I support the concept? Sure I do, but I'm not sure we've got I feel don't feel good at all about, going around actually, procedurally as well as ethically going around an athletic director without having him have the opportunity to weigh in. I would support this if there was room on the on the team as and because Smallwood we all yeah because certainly I know that Wethersfield is in our catchment area. We tuition kids in to Stevens from Wethersfield. I know we don't have in the past, so I have no problem with that at all.  The two problems. One is making a decision in citizens comments, and two, not hearing from the people who are directly affected by a decision which would be inappropriate to begin with.
NEXT> Michael: I've talked to them all. They just don't know where they're supposed to be on it. Yeah. That's so it's it's easy to say no based off of that. Yeah.

[R11776-37] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: A supportive.
TEXT> So I think everyone's in agreement and it would be great. I do have concerns about doing something just from citizens comments, but I but I also know the conditioning and the pitfalls of all that. So,  my recommendation would be if you tentatively approve it, then I can do the the legwork, the proper procedure. When we got these emails, I shared it with both principals, both athletic directors, and we didn't have we didn't have a  robust discussion about it. I just know in the past we've had to say give hard news for other people who couldn't. And we were trying to shore up that line until we had it. We last year we made an exception because of we didn't want to take the opportunity away until we had a better look at it, and we haven't had time in policy or whatever to do it. I, you know, if if we do that while it's pending so that kids don't miss out, I think everyone would be okay with it. But I don't know the exact impacts. We've had so much going on this as hasn't risen up.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Like I said, I don't want to really vote on it, but I think I everybody nodding. I think we could safely give tacit approval, if possible, to, you know,

[R11776-62] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: I didn't know I.
TEXT> All right. So the, the first,  the first item that I have is I have to do this in order to kind of keep it together. Okay. So, administrative transition. So first of all, in the elementary  schools, we have two new interim principals.  And, I have the information to,  for the board  to put out.  We have interim principal Nicole Bailey at Maple,  who  comes to us from Santa and is both of those positions are interim  for this year with the  understanding that we're going to start the, you know, the, the process of  talking to  and putting a committee together for both of those  for the spring, that's our timetable. The other  interim principal is Christine Baker at Bluff Elementary  School. Jen Donovan is the  student services coordinator at Maple two. Completely new team. They're already up there already interfacing with the students in the summer program and interviewing with staff. Christine Baker will be starting. She's coming to us from Croydon, where she is the  teaching principal and  is excited about the,  you know, the transition. So  those those are  exciting. So,  and and  we're looking forward to all of that. And, and there will be more  the The bluff one was just finalized yesterday and  that's why I'll have that out.  The other  administrative transition we have that that's tougher for me to talk about is  Donna  magoon  is is  going to say 40 in Milford.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It was a little over two or right at two years ago, almost to the day where she joined. It was at that time it was just been, Melissa, myself,

[R11776-71] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: going to open what we how we think we're going to open, but also for after school care, things that we talked about as an admin team. We wanted to see the success of the summer program, which is absolutely, you know, off the charts.
TEXT> It's at a manageable size.  And we'll be floating that out now that we, we do have,  three elementary principals,  and we're going to be talking about how we can do that. Some expand after school things. It's still a little fuzzy on the reimbursement for big purchases. But I would like to talk, you know, in the forums and kind of highlight some of the things that people have presented,  that I did in the other meeting. We're talking about playgrounds, musical instruments, kind of using that one time money to enlist as many kids to stay after school, to have other types of of experiences and catch up. That's our general plan, and we'd love to hear from the community  about that as well, to start betting that so that we can bring that to the board, like the gentleman who spoke before, if we're going to have have those things. Vetting that full summer program was was a lot of work, and we started months earlier, the same concept for a few hours, rotating the schedules and seeing who's available. I think there'll be momentum coming off the summer program for people to do that, but I don't want to speak. We have to assess what we have for staffing. We have to look at that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have to look at the interest. But that's a great first step to hear from the community. So the next, the next meeting, we're going to overview, steps on.

[R11776-72] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: few hours, rotating the schedules and seeing who's available. I think there'll be momentum coming off the summer program for people to do that, but I don't want to speak. We have to assess what we have for staffing. We have to look at that.
TEXT> We have to look at the interest. But that's a great first step to hear from the community. So  the next, the next meeting,  we're going to overview,  steps on. We wanted them to be specific. The two tests  for the administrative team from the board were to look at  common schedules. Okay. Common schedule in it's not just Stevens High School. It's the it's the secondary schools. It's the tech program. It's the middle school. How can we maximize the resources and things like that. So kids have the most options. More time on learning for the Strat plan. And we're going to talk about that. All we're going to do is at the meeting is put up structures, models and things to look at. We're also going to have follow up meetings after that and we want to have a vetting. We'll put out surveys. We're going to do all the things, things that will ramp up in  August and then going into  September. But it's good to just to hear where people are with that as well right away. The other one that we're going to dust off from the before time,  which we were doing right before Covid on, on on  March 13th, was the elementary restructure proposal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we looked at that as well. And we're going to we'll start off with kind of where we left left off with that. The positive about it. And there

[R11776-96] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: We have a maple.
TEXT> So it was cross data, but you can see 33. Page 33 is the overall district for performing at an early proficiency rate of 40%. And that is year after year. And then you can look closer at each individual school. Elementary school. Okay. So what ended up happening is Joan and I got put on a teaching team together, and we are very passionate about literacy. And then we started working with Kathleen. And so we started having these conversations. And it really came down to this question. Is there something different that we can do to improve student reading achievement? Is there something different so from that, is this the sort of springboard into this project? Okay. So from there we started to do a whole lot of research. And the last three pages of your packet are many of the journal articles that we use to guide our research. And we did prioritize peer reviewed articles. So we pull from scholarly journals. But we did want to write a perspective. So you will also see like news articles and interviews. And what we're really looking for is what are the best instructional reading practices.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: What are the research based practices, what are the evidence based practices? And also, are there other schools who were able to turn the dial and what are they doing?

[R11776-98] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: reading skills and like Common Core standards within books. So our students are still learning how to find text evidence. They're still learning how to compare and contrast. They're still learning how to understand text features and informational text. But here's where it's really important.
TEXT> This is the key difference that students are learning this within a topic of science or social studies. So for example this is one unit where they are learning about the topic of habitats. So they're still doing all those Common Core standards and skills. They're still getting how to find text evidence. But they are also gaining science and social studies knowledge and vocabulary okay. So that's really important difference. And we'll get into what we use in our school district elementary schools in a little bit. But what we currently use  is not designed that way. It's not designed to build,  science and social studies knowledge per unit. So this is really a defining factor of knowledge based reading program. And as you can see, it's actual published literature. So these are real books that kids are reading. And we are teaching the science and social studies units for grades 1 to 5, because we really want to build kids background knowledge, which is what they know about science and social studies and their vocabulary and science and social studies.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh, sorry.

[R11776-100] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, sorry.
TEXT> Okay. So then we want to talk a bit about the science behind reading. So when a person is reading, there are two major processes that are happening. The first is decoding and the second is language comprehension. And decoding is like foundational skills. It's knowing letter sounds. It's knowing high frequency words. The  like adds. It's knowing how to break apart a word and sound it out. We have programs in the district that address that okay. The other piece is language comprehension, which is really do you know what the word means? Do you have an understanding of the word? So if a child can break apart and sound out a word now, do they know what it means? That's what this means is okay, so why a knowledge based reading program? While it is really speaking to that second piece, that language comprehension piece, that is what it's a is addressing. Because as readers, we need vocabulary and we need context or knowledge of the topic to be able to understand the language. And this is really important. People, adults and kids, we need to read with about 95 to 98% accuracy.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: That's really high, right? So we need to know a lot of the words on the page to be able to comprehend. Okay. Now this I love this example. This

[R11776-104] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: we decided that there were three main things that we were looking for when selecting a program to use. The first was how is the program designed? Meaning how did they go about deciding what the children were going to learn in each grade level?
TEXT> And then number two was how strong is the vertical alignment? So meaning,  the correlation between the grades and how it builds over time.  And three, what if the quality,  what is the quality of the text that students will be reading? Will it be a basal reader?  Will it be small pamphlets? Will it be actual published literature? All right. So for criteria one, what we found in terms of the program design is that fish tank started with the end goal. So  when we are looking at their their units of study, they are preparing students for middle school, high school and college level work.  They actually developed their ninth through 12th grade units. They are modeled after S.A.T. reading passages and SAT questions. Okay, so that means they're starting with the end goal. And in education, we call that backward design. And that is a very strong method for planning content and outcomes. Okay. And then for  the second criteria we looked at vertical alignment. So looking at essentially how does knowledge build year after year after year. How is it connected. And we found that fish tank has very strong vertical alignment.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: So here's a science example where in kindergarten students will be reading about and learning understanding Earth life cycles. And then in first grade they're going to be learning about

[R11776-105] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: for planning content and outcomes. Okay. And then for the second criteria we looked at vertical alignment. So looking at essentially how does knowledge build year after year after year. How is it connected. And we found that fish tank has very strong vertical alignment.
TEXT> So here's a science example where in kindergarten students will be reading about and learning understanding Earth life cycles. And then in first grade they're going to be learning about animals second, habitats, third, understanding the animal kingdom and adaptation. So year after year, they're building their knowledge and increasing the complexity and still developing the vocabulary.  You can also see with social studies units, grade one studying ancient Egypt, grade two studying  ancient Greece, and grade three exploring ancient civilizations from. So we found that their vertical alignment was  very strong. Okay. So The next part text quality. This was. Our. Last. Indicator that we looked at. For. Our programs. And we really liked that match. Fish tank was very intentional about the text.  They looked at the actual text that was. In. The books first. Does it meet the criteria to teach that  standard and that to get them to that end goal, not did it have pretty pictures, or  did they have an author on hand that could just write a story to fit the curriculum as some as some do?  They also have chosen to use published books. This way students can,  the first unit being habitats.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: All of the books are from the same author. This helps them when they're learning about text structure, to be able to see that repeated text structure from one author,

[R11776-112] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: some assistance, but was still able to access that knowledge and show what they knew. So it says, first, an insect is an egg and they have filled in the blanks there. And the teacher did help them label their drawing as well, their diagram.
TEXT> And then over here we have first an insect is an egg. Next it turned to a lava.  A lava eats a lot, a lot of food.  And they have their diagram here as well. Important to add is this is a,  a  in English as a second language student as long. So yeah, pretty amazing that  they were able to do that. And you can and we also have students that were writing multiple paragraphs actually getting another getting another sheet of paper or asking, what can I turn it over? I know, I know more and excited to show what they know and write about it. And we wanted to show you these two examples, because we want to show you that that students can access the books, the knowledge and the vocabulary. This is a student who has intensive reading and writing needs, who's still able to access the vocabulary and the content. And as we said before, this is an English as a second language learner who was in our classroom.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: Okay, so talking about all the great things about fishtank learning, we also wanted to give you a little bit of background on some of the reasons why, we think

[R11776-168] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: No they took.
TEXT> It out. No that's what I'm saying. You can pull it in though. You can't pull it in. Right.  Well, we had students who said my grandmother came to Ellis Island. My great grandmother came to this, I was  texting, I have a student who is a first generation American. He his family immigrated from Mexico. We have a story about a child that did that and he said, hey, wait a willow,  a willow. He recognized the word of Willow and he said, Abuelo, I have a whale and was so  excited about it, went home and told his parents about how he read a book about a child that was like him.
NEXT> Brendan: And he could be a leader, like tell. And inform.

[R11776-173] Brendan | Curriculum coordinator, Claremont School District (surname not stated  | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: Well, and it's it's a it's a depth that we just weren't able to.
TEXT> And I think it's also when kids pull this out, it's not as exciting as pulling this out. Like this is like they're like, oh,  I guess this is exciting. And they get a new book every week. So I think, yeah.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: Yeah.

[R11776-183] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Brendan: Not engaging.
TEXT> So having a social studies unit as well as an A unit on top of it, I, I mean, I know there's concerns about the content in terms of  being too high or too low, but kids are seeing this stuff on the news. They're hearing it from their parents. It's related to every.
NEXT> Brendan: Talk to.

[R11776-192] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: maybe you don't understand what I'm saying. And so it was just that's the age appropriateness. And it wasn't I didn't see it as, solely an introduction to, what I would consider culturally relevant pedagogy, which is what I read a lot about. Sure. Yeah.
TEXT> I disagree, and I think when we look at the book, some books there, there is a level of intensity. But if you really look at the books, they are children's books. And I don't think that every book of every or every social studies is, is matching at local intensity. It certainly wasn't with our immigration unit and actually the integration unit. What we found, the prevailing theme was that communities in this country take care of each other, and that we are all so important that we respect each other, that we care for each other. That was a theme throughout coming to America and the Jesse book. So I, I don't I don't find that there's a theme of fixing the world's problem. I find that there's a theme of saying, hey, we're part of the community. Our communities really take care of each other. I think that's a big difference. That was that was my experience of teaching.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It was.

[R11776-199] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Brendan: button and ask your questions, and they get back to you quickly. I literally, emailed her yesterday and she got right back to me. And it was the same with Cassandra. So, I think that's a great start to get involved with Fish Tank. Mike.
TEXT> The the. The one thing I. Just want to preface is that. We don't get lost in all this is and I think it's  everyone is saying the same thing. It's understanding the context. Right. So everything that we do in the strategic plan is around the core content, the teacher, the student in the presence of content and and bringing that together. Don't lose the. And I think the best point made was and I think it was a  very good one and I want to clarify it and highlight it was the fish tank may have stopped that book, but it's the teachers in the room. It's those PLC. It's incredibly articulate teachers and leaders who are  coming together to to form this and they talk about it in our  professional development has changed to ensure that that continues to grow capacity.  We're just getting started and here's, here's what I want to challenge the community and the board to engage more in these conversations and clarify in the forums are a good start and a way to do it, because you have to have the whole picture in the in.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're spoiled, we get to see it and the one, the wonderful stuff going on. But it's a very typical process to talk about in show articulation guides of how

[R11776-229] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (Disnard per Dec 2020 roster; school not s | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm going to let Melissa go. Josh that's okay.
TEXT> Sorry. Just compelled to clarify a few things and Donna just hit on one of those. We did not change the curriculum. We are still teaching to the same. Common Core standards in this area. We have not changed the reading curriculum for children. What we're proposing is using an additional tool to help us meet those standards. And some of the features of this allow us to do that for students at a variety of levels. So, for example, I won't date myself and say maybe what the title of mine had been. Maybe Dick and Jane were characters. Reaches one level of students, right? When you have a piece of nonfiction or even a fictional story about immigration, you can pull in additional text at different levels to meet all students reading abilities in your classroom. And so that flexibility again around a theme thematic teaching.  Again, I'm maybe quoting some age here. Thematic teaching is not new. It's not new. It's been done for many, many years. And actually, the whole act of integrating learning for children is a high end strategy.  I think the questions around,  you know, as a teacher, if there's a particular topic, I don't know how much to get into or how should I have this conversation.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Kudos to that teacher for speaking up and saying, I'm uncertain about this. And that's exactly what we want those conversations and teaching teams to be. It's no different than

[R11776-230] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (Disnard per Dec 2020 roster; school not s | 2021-07-21
PREV> Melissa Lewis: And actually, the whole act of integrating learning for children is a high end strategy. I think the questions around, you know, as a teacher, if there's a particular topic, I don't know how much to get into or how should I have this conversation.
TEXT> Kudos to that teacher for speaking up and saying, I'm uncertain about this. And that's exactly what we want those conversations and teaching teams to be. It's no different than I don't understand this strategy. Can I play it out with all of you before I go teach it in front of children? You know the topic raised in this book? I'm not sure how in-depth I want to get with it. Well, great. As a team, let's decide what's appropriate and what's developmental. So, you know, again, with any program, teachers need to be able to play with it. And as part of any curriculum program review process, after we use any program, after we implemented wonders, the reason these two can speak so articulately to some of the deficits is because they've implemented it, played with it, made some changes to it, and recognized where their children needed something different. And you do that with any curriculum program. So I just wanted to clarify, it's not our reading curriculum. It's a tool. It's a curriculum program that we'd be we'd be offering. It's to as they as they said, very well, it's to hit three of the five major areas in reading vocabulary, comprehension, literature, comprehension, informational.  So it's not meant to supplant any other areas.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: It's not meant to be a phonics program. We don't intend to use it that way. So we're still teaching to the same standards. I want to address Frank's question

[R11776-231] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (Disnard per Dec 2020 roster; school not s | 2021-07-21
PREV> Melissa Lewis: tool. It's a curriculum program that we'd be we'd be offering. It's to as they as they said, very well, it's to hit three of the five major areas in reading vocabulary, comprehension, literature, comprehension, informational. So it's not meant to supplant any other areas.
TEXT> It's not meant to be a phonics program. We don't intend to use it that way. So  we're still teaching to the same standards. I want to address Frank's question a little bit. Why are kids so excited? Because we're putting a real book in their hand about real topics, as Josh said, that they hear at home,  that they hear other kids talking about. And who better to guide a discussion and know when the developmental level has been reached than teachers who work with kids every day at that level. So just my $0.02 and I promise to be quiet. Thank you.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: That's kind of what I was going to go to. The community is not going to know one way or the other. The community as a whole does not work

[R11776-236] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Brendan: Whether that was the intent.
TEXT> Whether that was the intent or anything. But if it's if we are not completely transparent with the community, with a very different way of teaching kids about very important and relevant issues that have not been touched at this depth. So this is a new this is a new approach. So if we're trying to kind of get people used to this as being a norm, then it has to be a discussion. And that's my concern is I don't want anything jeopardizing educational mission of this school system. And if and if any way, shape or form we have a community that's that thinks that something has been done to them and that we haven't been absolutely transparent and that our intentions have not been 100% what they should be. There is a distrust amongst about public schools, and it just is is the case whether it should be or not. There is a genuine distrust and that we have to, as a board, ensure that the community continues to trust us and continues to trust us in our intentions, regardless of whether our intentions are misconstrued. So that's kind of where I'm going with this. I'm not saying that anything should happen other than complete and utter transparency, so that our school district can can continue to garner the trust of the community so we can move forward with other programs that we might need community trust to move forward with.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So it's kind of a bigger picture than simply this program. So, you know, my objection isn't necessarily objecting to the program. I I'm just being very cautious of protecting

[R11776-237] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: not saying that anything should happen other than complete and utter transparency, so that our school district can can continue to garner the trust of the community so we can move forward with other programs that we might need community trust to move forward with.
TEXT> So it's kind of a bigger picture than simply this program. So, you know, my objection isn't necessarily objecting to the program. I I'm just being very cautious of protecting the trust that we're trying to build within the community. And I think that I'm feeling like this angst from people as if they're misconstruing my intentions, which is what these teachers were kind of bringing forth, is they're going to see us as trying to stop progress, and they're going to see us as trying to like, you know, not show kids certain things and  that there's going to be social penalties for that and that. Donna, you said that two people spoke out, but, you know, it's kind of a if two people right into a congressman, it means that 100 people probably had the same thoughts, but just didn't take the time to put the pen to paper. And so my I'm going to assume that there's more than two teachers that have concerns that are fearing those social penalties that will come from having their objections misconstrued. So that's all I'm going to leave it as I as I just want our intentions not to be misconstrued.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Right. And so with that, two teachers, like you said, pen to pen to, you know, writing, writing to you. Right? You've got two teachers standing here in front of

[R11776-241] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Donna Magoon: And then then the question will become, how many? How many parents do you guys have? That was how many complaints have they had? How many complaints or anything? Have you guys had from teaching the program?
TEXT> So I would just also like to add that I was the remote teacher for second grade. Yeah.  So I taught actually bluff remote children and maple remote children,  this year. So my bluff students did also get the curriculum. The books went home. We had our discussions,  around the book over the computer.  And so and many times I had parents popping in. I actually had quite a few students whose  parents, you know, would be sitting right there with them,  and, or would say, oh, when I hold on just a second, my mom wanted me to get you because she wants to hear the rest of the story. My mom, she wanted me to go get her. And so, yes, they are great books. Yeah. So,  I just wanted to add that that parents in my class, I had 19 students  remotely, and the parents that I had all saw the books. I sent them home and heard, discussed  and heard discussions around them as well. And  I didn't receive any parent just consoles quickly like this. It is our professional responsibility as teachers to communicate very clearly and very often with parents about what we're teaching in the content in our classrooms.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: So that's what we did. We shared with families. We said, this is the unit that we're doing. These are the books. Okay. So that's one piece to and I

[R11776-250] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: That the that the school is supporting the whole community and that everybody can get on board with this mission, which is a very positive, healthy mission that needs to be supported. So that's where I'm coming from.
TEXT> The, I've been kind of I was,  sort of in the null curriculum camp for a while until I thought about what was going on with this and what the intent of the curriculum is, and it is to,  teach kids how to communicate effectively, how to become critical thinkers  in high interest areas. I was trying to think of other controversial topics that I've been involved with over the years, and the resenting of SATs came to mind when I was first a guidance counselor, back when Steve was still in high school so long ago. This was  they're or re normed SATs, and they renamed them because a 500 score  when I was in school was average. And as time went on, the median score, if I'm getting my statistical terms correctly, was slipping, slipping, slipping in relation to that 500. And why is that? Because people of color, women, students with disabilities, kids in poverty were all now taking the S.A.T.. So it was a whole different ball game. And I think what we have when we start our immediate, visceral response to looking at social studies is, whereas Abraham Lincoln, my first question was Temple Grandin and no Thomas, no, no Thomas Edison. I mean, that was my initial response. To and,  but it's more than that. It's really about teaching kids,  skills that will serve them well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We still look at a lot of test data back all the way back to the knee app days. The app kneecap, SATs, SATs, and the example that you showed

[R11776-303] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: They don't think it's going to be statewide.
TEXT> No, it sounds like decisions will be will be local. And while I've got the floor, my my main concern,  and I don't disagree with optional masks and all that. Maybe mandatory on the bus if we're jamming them on the bus. But what I want to know about is the,  the ten day quarantine. Yeah. And that that is with staff and with kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The the.

[R11776-330] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: This is also known as SB 130 and HB one or whatever it is, and it is substantially different from if you talk to the commissioner and supporters of of these, this legislation, they'll tell you it's based on what other other states have done.
TEXT> And it's true, there are some education choice initiatives and other states. What's different about the New Hampshire model, however, is that in the other states, the state money follows the kit. So. So if I want to send my kid to  a private school, I can take my $4,300 in state money and I can go to the school. What's different in New Hampshire is they get all the money, okay. They get the state money and the local money. So now they get a check, they get 20. I believe they do. They get $20,000.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If they.

[R11776-332] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: If they.
TEXT> Leave, if they leave, and there really are no regulations on where they can go.  And many of the other states, they talk about when if you've got a kid who's whose specific needs aren't being met in a school, then you can use that money to access a program. An example might be a school for the deaf or a school for the blind, or or someone with pretty intense needs. As far as I can tell, there are no restrictions to that.  With the New Hampshire bill. So the concern there and I and I communicated directly with the commissioner on this is that,  how do we he he had indicated,  that we can cut related costs of $20,000 for a student. So I challenged him on how do I do that? And his response to me was,  you waste too much money anyway. And I'm saying that publicly because that's what he said to me. You waste way too much money. You can find the money. So that being said,  I posed another problem, another scenario where  if we've got a student who's in the  all in the same family, we've got a, a fourth grader, a sixth grader and a ninth grader all in the same family, and they'll opt to go to private school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That $60,000. How do we cut that from our budget? How do we do that? So I'm only I'm only I'm not looking for solutions to that. I'm just saying

[R11776-333] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: posed another problem, another scenario where if we've got a student who's in the all in the same family, we've got a, a fourth grader, a sixth grader and a ninth grader all in the same family, and they'll opt to go to private school.
TEXT> That $60,000. How do we cut that from our budget? How do we do that? So I'm only I'm only I'm not looking for solutions to that. I'm just saying as we enter the budget process, I think we have to go into this knowing that we have to do some contingency planning around losses of income, really without any means to cut the positions, to, to save them, to,  offset those costs. I don't know how you would, because it's one of the things I tried to explain to the commissioner was that the average cost per student is not the same as the actual cost per student, and the distinction being,  my kids, Richard Siemens kids going through school cost a certain amount. They were they required no special services as opposed to another family student who may go to Crotchet Mountain, and that costs $250,000 a year. So that's how the average cost per student has arrived at, factoring in these very expensive placements that we have some students in. And Ben could probably throw a number of what that total is, but it's a big number. And  so that's a concern not looking for. I'm just bringing it up. Another concern is the the fact that the, the state has is cutting the tax rate on room and meals and business profits, and those are actually the funding streams to fund education in New Hampshire.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So they're they're anticipating, I'm assuming, less income with which to pay Lester.

[R11776-352] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: like to be able to, monitor these things. That's why I wanted specificity on the swept. I want to know if that helps us or hurts us. I also want to know the damage of the of the education, freedom, how much that hurts us.
TEXT> That one, that one, in my mind, Frank, is is the harder question, because public schools must accept a student. Any student who wants to come here can come here if someone wants.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What's that? As long as they're a resident.

[R11776-357] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> Correct me if I'm wrong, Richard, but I think that there's a pretty draconian income level that you have. You  there's a threshold. Not everybody can use this money. You have to be at a certain income level to be able to access this fund. And I think it's something like $43,000 per family. So it's not like I can go and say, oh, I want to take my kid and use this money to go to a private school. They'll be like, nope, you have to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: 43,000 or.

[R11776-360] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Less or less.
TEXT> So it's not as if your child is already going to a private school and you say, okay, I'll take the money also, because it should.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's basically targeted for lower income families.

[R11776-382] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: That.
TEXT> 30 students didn't.
NEXT> Unidentified: Make it.

[R11776-388] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: It.
TEXT> And to be completely honest and depends on you. I mean, you were principal some years, some that that's not outside the realm. And what we need to be looking at is those stats in general, right. What is what is in creating more opportunities for kids and looking at that and again, that data culture type of we we need to put it right out there and say,  and I also one of the things we were talking about too. We're talking with the community college and a great article in that same etiquette about the budget, about the great opportunities  that that Alex has gone out with, with Nica and having kids in the camps and things like that, maxing out the tech center.  Those are the things that we'll talk about in that other form of what opportunities that we get and how are we doing it. And,  we said, what story are we telling? Right. So one of the stories that I'll a preview of that, that we have with our new linkage with the  with the community college is  as sensational as that stat is about the 30 not graduating.  The approximate stat we're still looking at the numbers of of students, of Stevens, students who graduate with college credit in hand.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There's more than 30. Okay. It's it's almost like a, a 30 or 40%. And what's what story are we telling that that's what we want to look at and

[R11793-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [20-60]; c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: district had said what they wanted to do precisely in terms of masking. And now many are presenting tonight and this week and things like that, and we've had more finality on that. And I've also conferred with people in the immediate area and around.
TEXT> So,  the recommendation. So I do think it would be  wise to  vote on it tonight. And I'm recommending that we have it on the agenda.  So what we want to recommend  is that masks are optional, except for busses. And I have this in also a reopening metric  in a few slides. And then I'll talk talk about three foot distancing to the extent possible. No monitoring except as mandated by the state of New Hampshire  in terms of  temperature checks and things like that only. What we have to do, no remote model at all offered is not recommended. We think that the best recommendation is for students to be in person,  old school, as it were,  with, you know, using. Electronics and other things to complement  what's going on, flip all the things that we learned and we learned a lot  last year with doing that. But the primary mode of instruction, the only mode of instruction, is direct instruction in the classroom.  And parents should know as they, as they already do, know that there has always been an option for it's a charter school option, but we recommend that we have only  in school instruction.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I did amend this last bullet. I sent this a draft out to the board on Friday. The same community spread matrix as last year. Unless and we I

[R11793-23] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [20-60]; c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And I think it's a good term to use. And we had when we switched cohorts last, last year, we went from cohort A, B and and see different times. What we're talking about cohorts here is for contact tracing and efficacy in that regard.
TEXT> So  the cohorts are not required in terms of grouping in the hybrid pairs. If you remember back to last year, for some of us it was bad memories, bad flashbacks or whatever. But we are not going to we're not going to have those divided out to start. So it will be less confusing. There is one group of students going all the way through and there's going to be  cohesion with that,  the assigned seats on busses. And I want to  make this clear that we were doing this way before Covid. Okay. They added, particularly for for the littles in the elementary, we were always doing this highly organized bussing system. And we will be back with all busses for all schools and opening day as normal from the before time. Okay.  That is that is the plan. That is what most districts are doing. Same thing and we'll get to athletics. We'll get to everything.  No restrictions okay. Visitors appointments are required.  Always were embedded in approved. And then we have visitors have to wear masks in the minimal appointments required and have to wear masks in the moderate. And  only when we get to substantial are we going to limit the visitation as we started and remained in most of last year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's a substantial change that we're very happy about. Athletics and co-curricular everything will resume as normal. This is also what we're hearing from a deed. We're excited about

[R11793-26] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [20-60]; c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: team wants to resume to normalcy. We had a couple of forums, and we, the parents that we, we spoke to, I spoke, you know, very emphatically about having a the best matrix we could have to open, which, which makes a lot of sense.
TEXT> And we feel like this is the most comfortable,  least restrictive matrix we could have, particularly based on where we sit today. And I just want to make that point because we know, just like we had to do all of last year, we are hoping that  people continue  to vaccinate in that, that we ramp up towards that. 80% recommended by Doctor Chan. We're hoping we're going to make every effort that we can to facilitate that. We're going to post that. We're going to host  whatever we can host. Most of those are going to smaller venues and clinics and things like that. We're going to advertise and facilitate and advocate for for students and staff to do that  as, as from from what we're hearing nationally and from from Doctor Chan, that is the best way to go. But that's that's going to be our, our, our focus and our that's the plan that I feel comfortable presenting to the board. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions to the superintendent.

[R11793-62] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Heather and I've been talking'  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: it's compensation. Do you believe blah blah blah. So I mean there's some things to go through, but this is a well-worn path that others have used. I think it's a great idea. And, I'll work down through the logistics on that side of it.
TEXT> And can school nurses or are they willing to vaccinate children in school once the FDA approves?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think we can we can broach that. You know, we talked about it last year. We were very concerned last year with the strain, any way of sorting things

[R11793-78] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [20-60]; c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: know, like on the 11th we presented and on the 13th we shut down of March, you know. So, but what we noticed if we went to the year long, this just kept coming up from from different educators and online in the round table.
TEXT> And then also  that we would have advantages  in maybe,  if we had year long classes that we could build more community with the teacher, with the student, and that they would have more time on learning, and in some cases, in the model that we put out  up to up to 46% or 50 more hours a year for the same course. There is a lot to unpack within that, though. You know, it's the variety of courses, all the other stuff. That was just our preliminary work with that and that's it. And this was just the reminder slide about the presentation. It's a repeat of the previous one.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Quick, this coming Monday, 530. Yeah. When board members think that you'd like to go to that okay. So we I think three can go. Correct. Yeah. Oh, we can

[R11793-100] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So you're saying parents shouldn't have to remember?
TEXT> I would say at a district visitors. I think that's kind of, you know, where I would go with it, because I think parents are around so many kids and staff members. I mean, I can't go to Walmart without seeing somebody.  I just think, I think while I were I respect being cautious. But at the same time, I think that we've proven that what we're doing is working. And I think that if we do out of district. So, I mean, if you have a vendor driving a truck from Massachusetts, yeah, maybe he should wear a mask because there's higher numbers and he's hitting a lot more places. But I think more of the local folk maybe just classified as parents.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So who would vet the people coming in?

[R11793-105] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm not in favor of changing the motion.
TEXT> So I'm just a little confused, actually, by that statement, because in order to get into the buildings, you have to be buzzed in anyway. So I don't see it being any. It's not hard to figure out who's a parent. If they're saying, I'm here to see my kid, or I'm here for a conference and a truck driver or somebody outside, I think is kind of common knowledge of what their business is. Yeah. That's fine.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The only thing I would be concerned about, too, is if the parent doesn't bring a mask. If we had this policy, would we provide them?

[R11793-114] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1]; runs age | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: 42.
TEXT> Okay. Thanks for the discussion, though. So I have inserted Mimi rhymes. The other day I was,  the building walking around with the assistant superintendent candidate and, so library full of kids with Mimi and charge.
NEXT> Mimi Rhimes: Scared thought I know.

[R11793-119] Mimi Rhimes | School counselor, Stevens High School, and summer school coordinator ( | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: You know, turn tension of the man behind the curtain.
TEXT> So. Hi, guys. For those of you who don't know me, I mean me, Ryan's. I'm a school counselor at the high school, and I'm entering my six year Stephens High school.  So when I'm running our summer school program, I'm just here to tell you guys about it. So the basics. It started July 12th. It goes until August 19th. It's from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., Monday through Thursday. We're on the second floor of the high school. We've taken over the wing by the library, so we have the library, the AAC, the staff room and the three classrooms that are right there as well. We have eight teachers teaching six different subjects.  And then you have me, the coordinator. So the process for summer school has kind of evolved throughout my years at Stephens High School. This year,  students were recommended based on  if teachers felt they were able to recover the credit in six weeks, as opposed to retaking the entire course.  And then let  me go home to families in April. And then I did additional reach out to it's email and phone calls and sometimes text messages with my school Google phone. Throughout the end of June. So I know everyone loves numbers. So we had 137 students were invited to come and recover 200 credits, and I had 100 students confirmed they were going to attend summer school.
NEXT> Mimi Rhimes: And this is just the attendance average. So week one, we had about 80 students. We two, we had 67, and week three we had 55. And it's actually a

[R11793-135] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: are choosing who do graduate are choosing to, move forward into the world beyond Stevens High School. And so, as you can see, with 2019 on the right going up to 2021, just this past year on the left, we've seen a pretty steady increase.
TEXT> Students who are electing to  or an increase overall in students who are electing to pursue  post-secondary, either in a four year or two year school,  based on our understanding of the state of the world last year,  and a lot of what we know of the choices that students were making, I think that a lot of schools saw  an increase in students  choosing to defer their plans to go on to a 2 or 4 year, and 2 or 4 years sort of education experience where we saw more of them opt for employment. But we're really excited to see that that,  number of students and percentage of students who are choosing  to pursue a post-secondary education is  increasing. And we're hoping that that will continue to be the case.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Where do we see where kids that do advanced technical training is that there.

[R11793-136] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Heather and I've been talking'  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: where we saw more of them opt for employment. But we're really excited to see that that, number of students and percentage of students who are choosing to pursue a post-secondary education is increasing. And we're hoping that that will continue to be the case.
TEXT> Where do we see where  kids that do advanced technical training is that there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Is.

[R11793-141] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: opportunities to our students. And although 91 was our count for this past school year, we also wanted to note that several students are taking more than one class, to earn college credit. But there are 91 this past year who earned at least one.
TEXT> So,   that that all being said, one of the things that we really dug into was completion or graduation.  Especially sort of in light of Miss Berry's statement during graduation about there being a number of students who did not make it,  this past year. So  in looking at our enrollment, based on beginning of your report that's tied into our state data,  and then accounting for students who are on Ed plans, who's who are either out of district placed or  they're,  on a more than four year trajectory. And then accounting for students who moved there ended up being 130 students at the beginning of year who were projected to graduate this past June 2021.  So when we broke everything down, we found that there were 88, which is approximately 67% who completed, and in that number  there were three certificates of completion. Two students who opted to graduate early. They would have been juniors this past year, but they had enough credits and the desire to move on. And so they are included in the 88,  as Mimi referred to. There was one student who actually ended up just completing  during our summer credit recovery program, and then five of these 88 students completed  their education, either to earn a Stevens diploma or to earn an adult Ed diploma through our adult education program.
NEXT> Unidentified: Next slide. Thank you.

[R11793-143] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: Next slide. Thank you.
TEXT> And so I think that looking at that 67% number, we also have to look at the historical completion rates. These are  can be found on the New Hampshire Department of Education website. They do not yet have the data posted for 2020.  But as you can see, historically 2017 to 2019. We're looking at 78, 79%. So this year is unfortunately markedly lower than what those numbers have been in the past. And so, naturally, that begs the question, who are these students and and what happened with them?  And so we found that when we dug through everything, there were actually 43 students who were, non-compliant for various reasons. And this chart breaks down,  how many students were in some general situations. So we had 18 who did not meet their credit requirement. And to address a question that you had asked,  of Mimi, I think five of them were offered a summer school or summer credit recovery opportunity. And I think one additional student, in addition to the one who has already completed his degree through summer  credit recovery, is taking advantage of that.  But it was offered to more students.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: Four of the students were enrolled in adult editor for the duration of the year because they are under the age of 18. They also show up on our Stevens

[R11793-146] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: at kind of our what I might think of are as our most basic. We are in contact with home teachers. Like I said, school counselors, administration reaching out and, you know, trying to understand the why of of what's going on for these students.
TEXT> We also have the academic resource center and after school tutoring.  We have our handful of staff who will engage in home visits for those hard to reach families.  Our social worker, truancy officer, SRO, I made reference to our attendance committee this past year.  One of the things we're really proud of is we've developed a process. That we are  excited to really get off the ground.  Right away and hopefully have a positive influence on those attendance and ultimately graduation and completion numbers.  We offer our flex block and offer in during the school year credit recovery.  For students who are almost there and maybe they need to to do a little bit more work to show that they're proficient. Some teachers have been really flexible, and they have  worked with students during flex and said, okay, you know, we've got two weeks we can do it, and we've recovered credits that way.  We also have as an opportunity as an option for students and our Odyssey where program.  Our school counselors are fantastic about doing individual contract plans with with students when we notice that they're struggling.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: That entails having someone inviting someone from home to be part of the conversation, inviting a, teacher, a administrator, school counselor, and all coming together as a team with the

[R11793-147] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: we can do it, and we've recovered credits that way. We also have as an opportunity as an option for students and our Odyssey where program. Our school counselors are fantastic about doing individual contract plans with with students when we notice that they're struggling.
TEXT> That entails having someone inviting someone from home to be part of the conversation, inviting a,  teacher, a administrator, school counselor, and all coming together as a team with the student to say, okay, what is the what's going on here? And how can we help you to be successful?  As I referenced, we have some students. It's a small number, but there are still some. That early graduation works best for them. They know what they want. They know what they're after. And they for a variety of reasons.  Once they have earned their credits for their desired graduation track, they,  are able to finish early. And so that's always something really positive that we celebrate. We also, have certain programs that we refer to students to. The two major ones are our adult education program here,  that's housed here in the Tech Center, Job Corps.  We have a school counselor who joined us this year named Nico Oaks, who has really taken up the mantle on Job Corps.  Referrals. We do. And really, she's kind of the point person. And our school counselors are doing a really good job of talking to families about what adult education looks like, what job Corps might look like.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: Some families aren't interested and really want to see their their student finish in a more traditional manner. But those are always options that we put out there. And then

[R11793-149] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: to intervene early. And it was definitely something that was in the forefront of our minds when we were making recommendations and decisions. One of the things that I think we have a really great opportunity for is building a stronger partnership with adult education.
TEXT> One of the things that we had identified this year as  something we could do better and we're working toward is that,  we have some time. Sometimes we've made referrals,  for adult ed that we aren't sure  what the outcome is.  And so one of the things that we want to do is really tighten up our communication with  whoever our director of adult education is going to be, so we can keep  more track of those referrals and what becomes of them. We also, talked about broadening our odyssey where in school year credit recovery programs we have is it 1500 licenses? We have 1500  Odyssey where licenses. And I believe those also  cover our career and technical education programs. And so we have an opportunity.  To work with our teachers who are our experts and, really whittle that program into something that will give students more of an opportunity to recover those credits as they're going through their year rather than waiting until summer, so that they can stay current and not get too far behind. We also, as Barry and I discussed, possibly establishing a partnership with the middle school for an eight through 12 summer credit recovery and enrichment program. We've seen the wild success of the,   summer programs this year. They're really encouraging.  One of the things that I had experience with as a teacher,  was teaching sort of a  pre ninth grade freshman academy over the summer to some students who are at risk.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: That really helped them to get, to get acclimated to what high school is going to be and that sort of thing. So that's something that we'd be interested in

[R11793-150] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: seen the wild success of the, summer programs this year. They're really encouraging. One of the things that I had experience with as a teacher, was teaching sort of a pre ninth grade freshman academy over the summer to some students who are at risk.
TEXT> That really helped them to get,  to get acclimated to what high school is going to be and that sort of thing. So that's something that we'd be interested in exploring in the future.  And then this last piece, which  I want to defer to Pat on because she has much more of the,  history of the, the program. And, and what happened with it is,  looking at the reestablishment of an alternative program.  When we were looking at our numbers and the data, there were 16 students who were enrolled in that Alt program when it was discontinued. And those students would have been seniors this year. And,  as it turns out, none of them,  ended up graduating and completing it. Stevens. So our question then becomes, what happened with that? What impact would that kind of program have? So I wanted to defer a path on that. Sure. So, you know.
NEXT> Unidentified: For those who.

[R11793-162] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: I can speak to to that.
TEXT> I'm just I'm going off the reestablishment because if we never had something that foundationally worked or that we could keep track of, we're not reestablishing. We're looking at another avenue to to try something. And I'm not knocking that at all. I'm completely curious. But I was kind of trying to see if we're talking about 16 students. That would have we could almost guarantee 75% of them graduated. That's, you know, amazing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. I just a quick thought article prior to my.

[R11793-164] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'as Ben suggests' [279] a | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. I just a quick thought article prior to my.
TEXT> Coming onto the average. But Frank, in one year, 25% of the graduating class were alternative program students. So just thinking that's one metric.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: I right when it was the when it was the Odyssey program and we and students we had 15 morning session students, 15 afternoon session students that was also housed

[R11793-166] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: that program as well. It was a good option for students at that time. You know, that's a whole nother conversation as to why that was dismantled. But that year, 2014 spring of 2014, 24% of the graduating class were graduating from the Owls program.
TEXT> Okay.  A follow up question onto this again. Sorry, guys.  No. Are these more hands on learners? Like, are we talking like a kid that wants to bang a hammer and read a tape measure, and we can get them some fractions in there?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Well, sometimes. Sometimes a lot of it has to do with students who, emotionally struggle with school. They struggle with life. They're coming from a variety of situations. Many of

[R11793-167] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: Okay. A follow up question onto this again. Sorry, guys. No. Are these more hands on learners? Like, are we talking like a kid that wants to bang a hammer and read a tape measure, and we can get them some fractions in there?
TEXT> Well, sometimes. Sometimes a lot of it has to do  with students who,  emotionally struggle with school. They struggle with life.  They're coming from a variety of situations.  Many of them were not successful at the middle school either.  They come to us often with low math and reading scores. They don't feel successful in school.  You know, failure after failure. That's a problem. You put that together with, you know, their trauma, their family trauma, PTSD,  other issues.  And much of it is behavior. And so being able to have a dedicated staff who's specifically trained with how to work with students with those kinds of issues. That's that's the big that's a big piece of it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Can I just jump in for just so. So what we did, Steve, was, I can't remember the year 2010. Maybe SB 18 came through and that raised the, compulsory

[R11793-168] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1]; runs age | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: their family trauma, PTSD, other issues. And much of it is behavior. And so being able to have a dedicated staff who's specifically trained with how to work with students with those kinds of issues. That's that's the big that's a big piece of it.
TEXT> Can I just jump in for just so. So what we did, Steve, was,  I can't remember the year 2010. Maybe SB 18 came through and that raised the, compulsory education level to 18. Kids could no longer drop out at 16. And the state of New Hampshire provided grant money, two years worth of grant money. And we wrote the grant and we got it. And so we brought in a company called Ombudsman. And Ombudsman was down actually in the Goddard Block is where they were located. And it says Pat said, we had two, two sessions, a morning session and afternoon session. We ran on for two years. And then  I looked at it and I felt we could do it in-house for less money. So we brought it over here to the tech center and put it in the computer lab.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: It was downstairs originally, right across from Alex's office.

[R11793-175] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Heather and I've been talking'  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: No.
TEXT> I, I get that, but I guess if I'm saying is that if, if, if we stop the program and these 16 kids couldn't even graduate, I just think it's. And what's Pat saying? Excuse me. Doctor Barry is that it's a coping and behavior issue, and I'm just I'm afraid we're not preparing them to actually function in society. I mean, they may have the the degree, I mean, that the diploma. But are we really setting them up for success? And is there any data that you can tell us about what happens to them after they graduate? And it may be a good number to have, you know, are we are we really providing a service that that extends into their life?
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R11793-190] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1]; runs age | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: from to. I mean, that would help to further the cost. If you think if we're thinking. But if we could take you know, for kids need to come in or playing field, you know. So I'm not sure where we would build that, but.
TEXT> My prediction would be there'd be so many Stevens kids in it. There's something wrong.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: I mean, the model that that we were beginning to, to develop and the hope was that, we were going to use as a template the Hillsboro Deering, model. And

[R11793-191] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: My prediction would be there'd be so many Stevens kids in it. There's something wrong.
TEXT> I mean, the model that that we were beginning to, to develop and the hope was that, we were going to use as a template the Hillsboro Deering,  model. And I've seen that in other schools as well, where you've got a limit of 24 students, I believe you can have  up to 60% of them be students who don't have, i.e. you have one core teacher, one teacher for each core discipline. You've got a crisis counselor, and you've got  access to a school counselor within that program. And they house their all program in the  one of the hangers  out endearing at the airport. And so there's a ten minute shuttle bus ride to the high school, and  students can start as early as the ninth grade. As a matter of fact, their program is so well developed and has such a good success rate that when I was in the middle school principal in Hillsboro Deering, I had parents asking me to place their students in the old program because they knew that they would not be successful if they went right to the high school.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And in the idea was that it wasn't a four year gig. It was, you know, there were benchmarks and things to achieve so that a student knew what they

[R11793-203] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: What? So one of these 18 accepted the other one, because he's completed his graduation requirements through summer school, is counted in our completion rate.
TEXT> Okay, so just now that creates another question. Sorry, sorry. On that. So out of the 181 entered summer recovery, five were offered. So why were the other 13 students not offered.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R11793-208] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: So you were talking 1015 credits in some.
TEXT> So they were lagging way behind? Yes, already. So if they were lagging way behind, how many times have  and I assume that all this interaction has been done with them at that point, right. So at that point, my real question is, is if they didn't meet credit requirements and they were so far behind, but they just showed up all day and socialized so they don't fit into the student withdrawal category because they didn't just fully drop out.
NEXT> Unidentified: So the the student withdrawal category and the category or, we are we classified as dropped because the age of compulsory education in New Hampshire's 18 that 18 might be

[R11793-209] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the clerk's roll call (see overrides) wit | 2021-08-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: at that point, my real question is, is if they didn't meet credit requirements and they were so far behind, but they just showed up all day and socialized so they don't fit into the student withdrawal category because they didn't just fully drop out.
TEXT> So the the student withdrawal category and the category or,  we are we classified as dropped because the age of compulsory education in New Hampshire's 18 that 18 might be or the 18 students that might be students who are 17 who are chronically absent, but they can't be dropped from our rolls because they are still,  under age and still are required.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: To be. So they would be the drop student withdrawal number. Right? Okay. So I my thought process is slightly accurate, not 100% that these 18 are under 18. They

[R11793-211] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: we've given them lots of opportunities here. Three other students dropped on their own accord now out of the student withdrawal dropped because it's separated from the 18 plus. I assume that we're intervening with the legal process with those three students at some point.
TEXT> There's not we don't have a lot of leverage. We don't have, you know, a lot of yeah, there's no chins anymore.  You know, a student chooses to to not come. And if a parent is either, not involved or incapable of of changing that students mind, or maybe they're, they've moved out of the house. Maybe they're living with a boyfriend girlfriend, couchsurfing or in a car. All of those things are what we see. And they're just not coming to school. There's, you know, we send the social worker out. We we we try to do whatever we can get the kid in to meet, to talk, to find some kind of deal.  But the.
NEXT> Unidentified: The state, we were also told this year that because of the sort of extenuating circumstances with remote and Covid and all of that, the state was not pursuing duty

[R11793-213] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: The state, we were also told this year that because of the sort of extenuating circumstances with remote and Covid and all of that, the state was not pursuing duty of a parent.
TEXT> The only reason I was asking is, is because I'm just trying to grasp where these students fell off and how  the top line particularly was how long they have been fallen off.  You know, because they're part of our enrollment numbers. And of those 18, I assume that some of them would have made it possibly in the proposed idea of an alternate program, the adult Ed, they're at least trying. And then the continuation of two down here. Awesome. So really, the the number that concerns me is not the 18 the 18 year olds as much, even though it's 37% of the number. They're an adult. We can't do anything. But where I get concerned is, is seeing ones that have been continually falling off. And then the three that dropped out.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And a lot of those 18 were behind the eight ball. By the beginning of sophomore year. A lot of them entered sophomore year with 1 or 2 credits. And

[R11793-214] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: not the 18 the 18 year olds as much, even though it's 37% of the number. They're an adult. We can't do anything. But where I get concerned is, is seeing ones that have been continually falling off. And then the three that dropped out.
TEXT> And a lot of those 18 were behind the eight ball. By the beginning of sophomore year. A lot of them entered sophomore year with 1 or 2 credits. And when when you you're coming in that you're the air is out of your balloon. You start to you're now in freshman classes as a sophomore, you're in freshman classes as a junior, you're taking health the second time or civics the third time. Now you just don't want to show up. Or if you're going to show up, you know, you've been through this civics class two other times you're phoning it in. You know, that's some of what we're seeing. But it's part of the problem is they don't have to learn for credit for the first eight years of their lives. And then they show up at high school. And now  you have to A, B, c on time, do this show proficiency, show up and do and prove every day. And if you don't, there isn't that magical credit at the end. And it takes a lot of kids, no matter how much the middle school teachers tell them and their counselors, and we tell them and they get warned, there they are, sophomore year going, oh.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R11793-221] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicholas Stone: So I saw for the eighth grade entering the high school that there's a credit recovery. Is there any, college courses being offered through the summer going into high school to get credits before they enter or.
TEXT> Not at this time. But we we'd like to and, you know, superintendent, I was very, very interested in working on those partnerships with the community college and, increasing those opportunities. The eighth grade summer credit recovery is not a thing yet. It's something we want to make a thing. When we went out to  San Diego several years ago to look at high tech high schools and see workshops from schools around the country, this district in Nevada did a wonderful job of combining the eighth grade, the rising freshman, with a nine through 12 credit recovery, and it was both the middle school and the high school teachers teaching in tandem, and not only just preparing those eighth graders for what high school was going to be like, but also get them a math credit ready under their belt or an English credit under their belt going in. So,  I mean, that's that's something I would like to really work on because I think it would help a lot of kids to prepare and give some kids a jumpstart.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: Yeah. Awesome. Another question is, do we track, how many people complete the four year school in two year school after the fact?

[R11793-232] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (chair: 'as Ben suggests' [279] a | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> That's exactly the goal. Yeah, that's exactly the goal that we we really focus, as everyone knows, on the elementary levels, both for the financial benefit of capturing the population, really, and to intervene. Really. And so we've got the elementary behavior emotional support program in place pretty solid. And we restructured the behavior and, you know, emotional behavior support program for the middle school for this coming year. So that's that's in place, if you will, or getting ready to do that for the first year. So, you know, we're still going to be some growing pains. But then the next step is the high school version of that. Right? So if you've got these programs that feed one another right now, we have a big hole at the high school. And perhaps the goal is that the kiddos do so well and we've intervened earlier that they don't need that level of programing at the high school. But we do know that there are certain kids that will need that level of programing all the way through to high school, but that's that's exactly the goal. And Mike and I have talked extensively about that, and I think we're all on the same page there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R11793-239] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Unidentified: So we'll.
TEXT> Have all four classes go through the virtual presentation and do the surveys. But we're going to cycle all our juniors and seniors the rest of the day through the gym where these will be set up. The stimulate, the simulators will be set up and  32, about 30 students and a chunk will be in the gym working on the simulators, testing each other, having the goggles on, doing all kinds of things. So,  we're very excited about this and hope that all of you can come by some time on the 14th. Just kind of see it in action. So I just want to let you know about that. So, we were supposed to in April of 2020, go on a lovely trip to,  Gettysburg, Amish country and New York City. And we had tickets to see Frozen on Broadway. And then the pandemic hit. Yeah. And and Hannah was supposed to go and we offered that trip because we had done the DC trip two years in a row, and we knew we had a lot of upperclassmen who may want to still travel, but we're not going to go back to D.C. so we were really excited about that.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: At first we thought we could maybe reschedule for the summer that turned into the fall, that turned into the spring. And there we were. Our tour person ended up

[R11793-240] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: that trip because we had done the DC trip two years in a row, and we knew we had a lot of upperclassmen who may want to still travel, but we're not going to go back to D.C. so we were really excited about that.
TEXT> At first we thought we could maybe reschedule for the summer that turned into the fall, that turned into the spring. And there we were. Our tour person ended up leaving the company. We struggled all that time to get back the almost $9,000 that we had given them in fundraising money that we had raised and given in scholarships to students. But we did get that money back.  Thanks to Shane Taylor, who was in just a battle ax on the phone about that. And  then we got a new person to work with us. So it was surprising, but understandable, that we found out that tour companies like F Tours and World Strides, they don't do bus tours anymore post-Covid. They don't want 40 kids on a coach bus for nine hours with one bathroom going anywhere. And when I thought about it, I was like, yeah, that makes sense. So all they do are flights now. And so it's not about, you know, determining your destination based on our on a bus, you're on a plane, you're on a plane.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And the cost is pretty equitable. Whether you go out to the Grand Canyon or to Puerto Rico. And we just did some casual, surveys of our summer school students,

[R11793-241] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: anywhere. And when I thought about it, I was like, yeah, that makes sense. So all they do are flights now. And so it's not about, you know, determining your destination based on our on a bus, you're on a plane, you're on a plane.
TEXT> And the cost is pretty equitable. Whether you go out to the Grand Canyon or to Puerto Rico. And we just did some casual,  surveys of our summer school students, and it was 100% Puerto Rico. And so and staff as well.  We also have a very committed Spanish teacher who is, is very interested. And  the idea would be that we would promote this through our world language department and through our Spanish classes. There's no requisite to have any kind of Spanish background to go on the trip at all,  but we figured it would be a great, kind of carrot for a lot of kids and a great way to to market it. So overall and you've got a lot of information here, but just to kind of go over this, these bullets  we would be proposing this is a travel is an educational trip. Eat the E and F is for education. And so  the education the students will get both both pre and during is is equal to what they will have experienced in a week in the classroom here at Stevens. So we want to go that week before April vacation. And then people can kind of recover because it is a seven day trip.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: While April vacation is going on, we would leave from Boston is $100. We can leave from Manchester. It's $100 more. Students who enrolled in the first 40 hours, 48

[R11793-243] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: form by the parents and an essay by the students in order to qualify. And so you can just see everything that's covered round trip airfare, all the hotel stays overnight, security in the hotels from 10:00 to five in the morning, breakfast and dinner.
TEXT> The tour director who meets us when we step off the plane in Puerto Rico. All tickets, entrance fees for museums and everything. It's up to $50 million in liability and accident coverage. And for every ten students they pay for a staff chaperon. And then there's a percentage. So if you have 30 kids you get three free chaperons if you have 36 kids, they pay for 60% of that fourth chaperon. So that's how that works. Some of the things that aren't in the brochure that the,  our person was telling us about,  students will get to experience what it's like to live on a Puerto Rican farm and their equine traditions, and how to use materials from the ranch to make jewelry. And they'll experience a real crafting workshop. They'll visit a farm and go through the cycle of composting, organic growth, harvesting, getting food to market in the local economy.  They'll also have a cooking class using those ingredients that are grown on the island and learn the culinary traditions of Puerto Rico. So those are some of the other things that will happen. Students, as as always, will be required to keep a journal throughout their  time on the trip.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we set aside time every day for that to happen and also kind of do some scrapbooking. And students have to do a research project on something that they're

[R11793-244] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: using those ingredients that are grown on the island and learn the culinary traditions of Puerto Rico. So those are some of the other things that will happen. Students, as as always, will be required to keep a journal throughout their time on the trip.
TEXT> And we set aside time every day for that to happen and also kind of do some scrapbooking.  And students have to do a research project on something that they're going to be visiting, something about Puerto Rico, and then they'll be called upon during the trip to be the expert on that place. And so it's a research paper with MLA citations and all of that. And if students are asking us for financial aid, they are required to participate in at least two fundraising activities in order to qualify for that.  So and as you can see by the,  the agenda and this is, you know, we get to really create our own agenda. But when I looked at it, there wasn't anything I necessarily thought should come off of it or it should be changed for something else. But it's everything from exploring Old San Juan and the 500 year old walled city visiting the local museums. They have an exchange with local boys and girls, where the students get to meet with Puerto Rican students and hang out with them a little bit.  The Hacienda, which we just talked about, the art museum going to the coffee plantation, going to  also, it's a lot of it is trying to learn some Spanish while we're down there.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Right. And and all of that. Taking a boat tour of the Bayou Bio luminescent bay, which is at night. And they see all of that. That's a real highlight

[R11793-247] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - onset of the trip motion Sp | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Questions for Pat. For a motion.
TEXT> I'd like to make. A motor room facilitation. Or what's a good word to make? To say for what you want to do is expedite.  E.F. tours  to senior student trip to Puerto Rico in April 2022.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Josh seconds further discussion. Steve.

[R11793-269] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Doug Belgrave: Doug Belgrave. Athletic director at Stevens.
TEXT> We were asking you  here today to talk about  pay to play option for our district.  Families. The first thing I wanted to do was I know that some people weren't on the board when this first started, so I wanted to kind of give a back of  kind of how this started. So we got an email on about mid-December, about two Cornish kids that played and do over sports, soccer and basketball. We were asked to look into it a little further, and we found that there was one other student who was from Scott. We were asked to tell them that they were ineligible to play because they were out of district students.  We also found out that it was kind of under the radar that this was allowed in the past from former ads, and there was no formal policy on it. So we later,  we later grandfathered them in and we allowed them to play. The Vermont student could not  could not play in winter because they still had restrictions due to Covid in Vermont.  But he was allowed to play during the spring.  Which opened up the discussion for a formal policy.
NEXT> Sean: We when we were asked to think about how we would go about this, we had some essential questions to ask ourselves of, how to how do we do this?

[R11793-276] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: Covid related to spikes.
TEXT> I knew that was going to be a question, so I made sure that I actually knew that answer. So, there was actually only one boy that didn't play  that didn't play for Stevens this year. That played for me last year. And it was because of Covid, everything else. I think it naturally drops off.  The reason why is probably it's very it can be very overwhelming to go from high school and being like Pat actually described in her,  in her presentation, it can be very overwhelming for kids to have all of that stuff to do at Steve and Stevens and feel very overwhelmed and not want to take on a sport. So sometimes that's natural. They could be having a job.  They want to balance.  You know, work in balance.  Other things. So it could be. It could be many. It could be many reasons. But I know that only one of them was because of Covid.
NEXT> Doug Belgrave: And part of it was. Ineligibility. Because. You know. They they by the time you start the winter season for basketball, those fall first quarter grades have come out. And

[R11793-280] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah.
TEXT> I also wanted to give a brief description of what cut and non cuts programs actually are. So a cut program is a program that needs to be capped at a certain participation.  Participant rate due to being limited time space equipment and personnel to make  an adequate development of of athletes. So an example of this would be basketball, baseball and softball. There's probably a couple more. You could probably add soccer  on it that as well.  I know that I've only had to cut basketball  basketball kids,  last year because, I mean, if you've seen my gym, it's really, really small. I can't have I think my first year I started, I had 54 kids sign up. I retained 36 of them. And I think the other, the other kids were sixth graders so they could play down at Parks and Rec. So  I can't have 50 kids in the gym. It's not safe. And I didn't have that many coaches, so I, I couldn't have that many kids in the gym at one time. It's just it's just not possible.  When you when we're talking about non programs, it can support a larger  a larger roster and accommodate for that development. Because  in football I have three coaches at the middle school. So I can have maybe 15 kids with one coach, 15 kids with another and 15 kids with another, and they'll get similar development. It's a lot easier to maintain.
NEXT> Sean: Our policy proposal is, any added district kid that should should be allowed to participate if the a tuition area and I believe the tuition areas are Cornish Wethersfield is

[R11793-281] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: accommodate for that development. Because in football I have three coaches at the middle school. So I can have maybe 15 kids with one coach, 15 kids with another and 15 kids with another, and they'll get similar development. It's a lot easier to maintain.
TEXT> Our policy proposal is, any added district kid that should should be allowed to participate if the a tuition area and I believe the tuition areas are Cornish Wethersfield is cutting in unity. I may have missed one, I'm not sure, but those are the ones that I know of.  They are held. They are held at the same standard as everybody else. Eligibility and conduct.  Do not  do not have the program offered at their own school. Homeschools. Kids are usually the closest. I think the kid was home, was homeschooled and he his closest district was Wethersfield. So all of the homeschooled paperwork was actually,  filed there and then must be a fee proportional to the total cost of the program divided by the number of participants. This would include equipment,  coach salary, and  the officials. So in the case that I believe,  I think it was Michael Marsh came  two weeks ago. In that case,  it should be that they are allowed to play because they are from Wethersfield. And according to act 46, they actually do have the  the option to go to Stevens.  If you're not aware of act 46, it is a Vermont law passed in 2015 to consolidate schools.
NEXT> Sean: They tried to make it more effective by consolidating into one building and having staff and students go, go just there and have the dollars flow. There are smaller districts

[R11793-282] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: that they are allowed to play because they are from Wethersfield. And according to act 46, they actually do have the the option to go to Stevens. If you're not aware of act 46, it is a Vermont law passed in 2015 to consolidate schools.
TEXT> They tried to make it more effective by consolidating into one building and having staff and students go,  go just there and have the dollars flow.  There are smaller districts in Vermont that opted out of that. If they opted out, they actually have school choice. And one of the schools that is on the Wethersfield list is Stevens. They all agree to be held in the same standards. So eligibility and conduct  does not have a program offered at Wethersfield. I believe I actually went to school with Jessica was the 80 there. And they offer programs, but they'd never they're never able to feel them because they don't have enough students. So  they do offer them. But she'll tell me if they can't feel the team,  they must pay a fee. In this case, it would be $245. But these are last year's numbers, so it actually might might change.  17000  $1,700 $2,846 for coaches salary and then 200 $264 per home game. And there's usually eight games. And we have half of our season is for  four, for home games. Yeah. Yes. And then the total participants last year was 23 for a football team. So this would be like a rough estimate for for the families.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Away games. I assume that they're willing to to travel. But let's say they meet here with the team to go. Would there be bussing involved as well? Yes. Towards

[R11793-291] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Joshua Lambert: He had mentioned that they would get their students here. So yeah, I mean I don't think it's going to be an issue that.
TEXT> I wasn't here last week or two weeks ago.  And this is a non program. So it wouldn't be an issue  for this particular case. One of the other things I actually wanted to mention is that there was a couple, there was a couple other examples that happened last week. I got a call from a grandmother from unity, and she wanted her daughter to play, or she wanted her granddaughter to play soccer. They offer soccer and unity. So under this rule, she wouldn't be allowed to play here, because they offer it there no matter how  weak or strong their program is. I think we both feel that we don't want to take away from other other people's programs, because then they don't have any room to grow.  And then another,  we got a couple calls or emails about Charlestown and Walpole kids wanting to play football here, too. They play for Fall Mountain. We don't we can't take them in because that's another program that we don't want to take away from. That's pretty much it. I think that was the last slide.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So a lot of the argument taking at least the football kids was based on the that five. Football and tackle football are fundamentally different. You're standing here that they're

[R11793-292] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (roll 'Michael Peacham here' [6]; chair  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Sean: Charlestown and Walpole kids wanting to play football here, too. They play for Fall Mountain. We don't we can't take them in because that's another program that we don't want to take away from. That's pretty much it. I think that was the last slide.
TEXT> So a lot of the argument  taking at least the football kids was based on the that five. Football and tackle football are fundamentally different. You're standing here that they're not different. That flag football still feeds their high school program. So so by that argument, if their flag football team is feeding their high school program by taking these Wethersfield kids, we'd be taking away from feeding their own high school program.
NEXT> Sean: No. So since they're from Wethersfield, they actually have school choice. And one of the schools is Stevens. So if we open the door for them and they join our

[R11793-293] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: that they're not different. That flag football still feeds their high school program. So so by that argument, if their flag football team is feeding their high school program by taking these Wethersfield kids, we'd be taking away from feeding their own high school program.
TEXT> No. So since they're from Wethersfield, they actually have school choice. And one of the schools is Stevens. So if we open the door for them and they join our program, we're actually feeding ours. If they decide to go to Stevens. So  I think it was slide three, I said it was the possibility of retention. So we're investing in those students for the possibility of retention.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah. And I get that. And that to me is still a big if I think I, I'm not sure if 100%, but I'm pretty sure I heard Mr.. Say

[R11793-303] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Could you remove that then, because that was, that seemed like a competing argument for me because I was like, oh, geez. Well, then they can't come because you're saying it's the same. It's just a different approach.
TEXT> You're talking about  my argument. So the reason I don't want it to, the reason I don't want to make the argument that,  they're the same program is because if we open it, if we open that argument up, Springfield kids and Windsor kids would be coming over here as well. But it does. One of the stipulations in here, it has to be a sending area but.
NEXT> Unidentified: Got it.

[R11793-320] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: I want to I want to make sure we put in a placeholder policy.
TEXT> So I, I wouldn't even call it a policy at this time where allowing these for children's to pay  or to pursue under this presentation, until a formal policy is in place.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I can look at that. You second, restricting only to these four or you're saying this is if there were.

[R11793-328] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Steven Horsky: Have we had any other.
TEXT> Yes. I was waiting for you guys to come to me.  So I at least have two other kids that are, from Cornish. I have another kid from unity. Unity can come over. That's not an issue.  But I do have a kid that is going to come over from Cornish. Should they be included? And that will be. That's. That's not football, that's soccer. And that's  that's something that I left. I didn't really answer in my PowerPoint presentation because,  I think that should be up to you guys. Are the taxpayers because soccer could be considered a cut sport. So if I have enough numbers, do I not have them come over? Yes. And if I don't have enough numbers, how do I how do I let them know that, hey, there's a couple spots open, so it's kind of a catch 22.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That's the sticky wicket I guess, because if I concern to is, is you could have you could have kids. You know, it may not be cutting kids, but maybe

[R11793-332] Sean | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'My name is Sean.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Joshua Lambert: So this corner of soccer. No, no okay okay.
TEXT> But but the other the other thing that I put in here, one of the essential questions was should we have it as a cap for certain sports. And that's why I made the distinction between cut and not cut. Because non cut we can we can support people coming in. We're not even going to hit the cap even close. And we have a football coach right here. He can he can attest to that. We're trying to recruit other people.  But with soccer, it's almost hitting the cap. So I don't know if we take in more kids or if we, you know, if they find out about it and there's like, 4 or 5 more kids, can I support that? And is it going to take away from Claremont kids? And I understand your argument. That's why I'm like, I don't want to put it in here because I shouldn't have that say. That's something that's should be up to the community.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's my point is that is one of my at least.

[R11793-334] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Nick has not asked a question'  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's my point is that is one of my at least.
TEXT> It becomes as a Claremont resident, because they're paying that fee to be a player on the team and on middle school, you're playing times. It's not really a big thing because it's supposed to be more equal, because it's not, you know, about winning stuff like that. So I think that's kind of a down the line thinking of that, because once they, you know, pay the fee, they're approved to come here, then they're treated as a student of one of their own because they paid that fee and then they'd be treated as such. So I think that kind of, you know, the playing time or even I don't know where that really comes from.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I'd like to amend my original motion to non cut sports only at this time.

[R11793-356] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1]; runs age | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: that we need in our timetable. And, reopening, again, updates on where we are. I would like a little bit more information next time on, quarantining procedures, contact tracing. What do we do if someone, goes out for testing? How long will they be out?
TEXT> These types of things, hopefully that'll crystallize a little bit because that's,  I know from having worked in the schools, if someone goes out for ten days, that is not good. So I want to make sure that we're we're clear on that.  Because I'm wondering how much that contributed to some of the failures that we had as well, the fact that kids were going out for extended quarantines. The other,  would you be able to give us any updates on hiring at all?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Do you plan on doing there today? But okay. It has been.

[R11793-365] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (roll 'Michael Peacham here' [6]; chair  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes, I figured it would. Mike.
TEXT> I had  a question or,  I had the news, the local news playing in the background while I was home. And it something came across where it said that the CDC and the USDA were getting together to provide meals for students. This is this year. So I'm not sure if you've heard anything is probably relatively new.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm not familiar with that one. We already have through the USDA free meals for our students for next year. It's been extended. Yeah, it's been extended current program

[R11825-28] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: see the pictures of the kids both in the classroom and staff. And that's the very successful summer program. These are mostly the elementary. These are all the elementary program. In one of the culminating day. They also had field events the very last day.
TEXT> This is from the Thursday before when they went to Sunapee. But I like to preface even the,  the, the conversation about,  and we will talk about masking and all those other things that, that the board has started to,  you know, adopt. But it was really surprising to me to send the board a new packet this morning based on, on kind of a spike that we have that we'll talk about in Claremont right now. We're still I want to preface that we're weeks away from opening things go up and down. We'll look at the total picture.  But when you look at these slides, just remember that we had for six,  really six and a half weeks. We had kids.  In at all buildings, at all levels  from elementary, middle and high, approximately 250, 270 students. At least 125  support staff, for the most part, particularly at the elementary program, we're talking about 8:00 in the morning to in some ways, round trip to 6:00 at night. No incidence of spread infection. You see the pictures there. You see staff working with kids unmasked.  And  and we have done very well by that.  And,  and I was surprised to see the recent climb in Claremont.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're going to we're going to talk about that today. We're going to look at some of the information. We're going to look at what's up there. We're going to

[R11825-29] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: ways, round trip to 6:00 at night. No incidence of spread infection. You see the pictures there. You see staff working with kids unmasked. And and we have done very well by that. And, and I was surprised to see the recent climb in Claremont.
TEXT> We're going to we're going to talk about that today. We're going to look at some of the information. We're going to look at what's up there. We're going to look at the short term long term and also put it in perspective for where we were last year. Okay. So  and and that's that's what I want to preface. But these are amazing. It was an amazing program, amazing effort  by everyone in the students at a great time at  at the early grades, in the middle school,  socially  in the high school,  we heard the presentation last  last board meeting about them regaining credits. All those things, they were very successful.  Next slide.  Now I have a bear with me. I'm going to go through a bunch of these slides. A lot of them are Covid related. I did cut it from I think we're over 100 in the previous one. I cut it down, I think a cool 70. Okay. So we'll fly through those.  These are the presentations that we adopted and we presented on the fourth.  Basically that masks are optional except for busses. These are the tenets of the program will go right through the grid.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Three foot distancing to the extent as possible. No monitoring except as mandated by the state mandated not recommended. But no, we and we'll also and I'll show you the

[R11825-42] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - onset of the statement Spea | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That's my yeah I don't know what's easier.
TEXT> I think they're reasonable. And There's something that kids can manage and something that parents can understand. It's data driven. And I would recommend that we adopt the Msj as modified.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You even with the indoors. And I'll put it out there because I, I was I was you know, I'm, I'm, I'm recommending it based on today and based on

[R11825-45] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Just volleyball is that the.
TEXT> All we have is volleyball indoors. So and even then I I'm, I'm open to and I'm sure the ads will be open to. I didn't even get to our spike right now. But I will talk about what's what's happened  reasonably with ads in the area. I talked to Doug. He's reached out to others. When we have any spike, just like last year, we don't go on a bus. We don't. The ads all talk. Everyone knows what they're getting into. And if there's kids or there's transmission, how, how many days they've been practicing and things like that. And they're talking, they have a,  a trip tomorrow. They have a trip  Saturday foot  football scrimmage.  I'm not necessarily concerned with that with with what we have for a spike now. I think they they work that out. But those are the most immediate things. And I want to stress as well. We have we have, 14, 16 days before, before we open where things could change. So I don't we're already masking on busses. So if when they go on that trip, we're following this, what was already adopted there already masking all the time on busses. Everyone on the bus. That's already that's already a go. That's the only place where people are masking all the time.  No matter  what stage we're in for next year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Steve.

[R11825-61] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to get more people in the fold in the process. And next slide please. You can see the Concord cases active at that time were 27. Then you can see the breakdown of active cases. And again you can show next slide please Mr. Small.
TEXT> All right. Next slide. This is this is a great one. And I had a couple calls on this and follow up. Now this is a composite of the entire state from last year.  You can look at  all the cases breakdown again this is on the the Covid site. You can see  even it's important to know this in a couple board members reached out that I that I would mention this tonight. If you look at the particularly the deaths okay all the way through go to the far right, scroll down, see the ages 0 to 29 even we have students up to age 21. In our public schools, you can see there's very few deaths. You can see there's very few cases. And what the composition of all of those things are, you can drill down into this one and others break it out as well, pull it in. You can see that with all the other maps. All right. Next slide. This is the aggregate. This is what a lot of slides will tell you. Okay. As well. This is the New York Times very robust site for actually for the whole world. But it breaks down in real time. Right. The Claremont just as fast as New Hampshire site.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: They all feed together and pull together. But what you look at this one that I circled is you can see the percentage change, and you can also see what

[R11825-63] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it kept kept climbing to the 10th. You see the numbers of 50 new daily cases positivity. Then we started charting the number of cases in Claremont from 99. I think we're at an all time high at 120 or 122 in here. Next slide.
TEXT> Impact of outbreak. All the other stuff. Next slide. What's interesting to know if you get to the spreadsheet keep going. Mr.. Mr.. Spong yes. Okay. So what we were starting to use this  information for  tracking it very carefully, both as an administrative team and the board was to make our argument that even at this time, with these high rates, we were targeting how quickly we could bring students back. Okay. That was the impetus. It no one was, you know, we wanted to get back to no one wanted to do all those things. But if you look at the next few slides, you can see. So when you look at the if you look at that upper left, you can see the cases that we had right where Hillsborough had 77 new new cases. Okay.  Right now we're talking we're in the  well below that  50  at Sullivan at that time. Next slide January 12th. We're talking about this somewhat kidding but somewhat not. Today is in the mid team that our our takeaway was our  anniversary of our first cluster for the year. First and only cluster transmission that came from staff adult staff members from the outside in, not transmitted from the inside out or from students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Was January 12th okay. And there it is. Okay. 22 staff have Covid or quarantine. That was our our toughest period. Okay. But over the course of 15 months that

[R11825-64] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Today is in the mid team that our our takeaway was our anniversary of our first cluster for the year. First and only cluster transmission that came from staff adult staff members from the outside in, not transmitted from the inside out or from students.
TEXT> Was January 12th okay. And there it is. Okay. 22 staff have Covid or quarantine. That was our our toughest period. Okay. But over the course of 15 months that was the worst it got. You can see the 99 tracking over there on both sides of the column. And as you can imagine, this was a lot of fun last year. Next slide going down to 79. Again making the case that we're coming down as we're tracking it.  Next couple next next slide again over the same. It's getting yes.  Next slide. The board asked for us to report back on the total numbers of kids where we were. We changed four times over the course of last year. Different models with different teachers going back, adapting, trying to get kids back over the course of the year. Those are the students in the models of remote and cohorts. Okay. And that's why we scrapped the cohort after this presentation. We saw it all through this next slide. That's what our staff meetings looked like remotely when we were coming back  and they were packed. We had one similar forum  and it has it was as it should be.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We only had about eight people on last night ramping up with these pick up when people are back in full or whatever, but this was also indicative of how

[R11825-94] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: reminder as well that that's next Saturday, 10 to 10 to noon, great events. A lot of free, literacy things, giveaways, community comes together. We're really excited that that's getting back as normal as possible. And I think that's it for the for the report.
TEXT> My quick question. So I received an email and I, I don't know if other board members did or not from a parent  today who was  actually hoping for cohort C. Yeah. And I know that, that didn't really I mean, it probably worked for a few kids, but it's not enough kids to, to to it. So when we get emails like that from parents, what what should we tell them? Talk to.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. The the most important thing is to direct it to the school or to us, and we'll get them the answers that they want. So and there's a lot

[R11825-100] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So it's it's a financial hit for us for for kids to do, to do Vlachs  financially because they're off our books, therefore not part of our EDM. Therefore we don't get state.
NEXT> Unidentified: Aid.

[R11825-102] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Aid.
TEXT> For that kid. So so that's just a little side piece of information around Vlachs. If they go to the full home school. Yes, you can take V lacs,  and take individual courses there as a, as a student with no penalty to the district. But if you enroll in their home school component, then you have to withdraw from your home school or your sending school. Other questions for the superintendent.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just one more. I just want to clarify. We're going to be able to speak to the vaccine opportunities later, I'm assuming, with.

[R11825-141] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Thanks. Next we have Nicole Gordon, who is now a veteran of of of presentations. And that has done a amazing job kind of breaking down and going through this. I can speak to. Most of the changes and questions.
TEXT> Sure.  Did everyone receive the sort of breakdown? I'm not sure. It came after the the handbook was completed. So I can go through the highlights. And if you guys want a a  exact copy of this, I'm happy to provide one.  A lot of the  changes  were in reference to the grading procedures and policy that you guys had voted on earlier in the,  in the previous school year. And really clarifying and translating what the p p plus D is now going to look like in a language that is hopefully going to be much more friendly for parents and for students.  There were a few sections where that referenced the Covid 19 pandemic, where we did some more tweaking.  One of the highlights that I wanted to point out is when we talk about issuing junior and senior privileges. There was previously a community service requirement to earn those privileges.  Given the the limited community service opportunities throughout the pandemic last year. We've adjusted those. So now  juniors in order to earn their privileges, their their open lunch card and things like that.  They now  instead of having 24, they can,  earn that with 12 community service hours.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: Seniors, we've dropped that senior privilege requirement from 36 to 24 community service hours, again to compensate. However, it's very important to note that that does not change our graduation

