[R12115-157] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: see that we budgeted it but didn't, just for clarity on what the feds did to provide lunch during the pandemic this school year, if my understanding is correct, that would make that a zero that's actually used. Is that correct? Which means there's 654.
TEXT> Well, no, we of the 615 that we get on food service, we also pay for the food for the provider for Abby Group, which provides the food. So there is a net number that comes out of food service. The benefit we have of what the federal government did this year, everyone being able to receive a free lunch and not getting the reimbursement is hopefully, we had the ability to expand the number of students that were taking advantage of free breakfast and lunch, but there's still the food costs that's in there. I do anticipate this year we'll probably be seeing a 100 or $200,000 type of a surplus number in our food service.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Yeah, that's where.

[R12115-161] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: I would see that we would have it next year budgeted, but I would see it on this year as being a surplus if we didn't have to use it, because at the time the budget was passed, we didn't know if the federal government.
TEXT> Was six. 15 is a reasonably consistent number. What they did for us, because we have such high level of free and reduced, we aren't necessarily seeing a big change. Our cost for providing their meals is still the same. So basically food service runs its own PNL. It's not included within the regular education or any of the grants. It's its own. So here's our revenue that comes in normally be made up of free and reduced people paying for their lunches, etc. and the bottom side is Abby group contract to us. Actual expenditure is what they do with people, so I don't anticipate that that's going to change all that much. Again, unless we're able to raise the number of kids who are taking the lunches and the meals, in which case it just economies of scale that you get on the fixed expenses. I'm not quite answering the question, what am I missing?
NEXT> Unidentified: I see the federal government's giving me money, right?

[R12115-191] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's right.
TEXT> Yes, sir. Yep. There we go. Okay. What's unique about school budgets is our voters only vote on the appropriation. We only vote on the expense side. But the revenue side has a huge potential impact on tax rate. We saw it a few years ago when the amount of adequacy aid was dropped, and therefore, the tax rate went up, even though the budget, the appropriation went down. I mean, we don't spend enough time on the revenue side, but we also don't vote on the revenue side this coming year. We have some real positives on the revenue side. Let's hold on district assessment for a moment, which is the top line there because that's a plug number. After all the other revenues come in. That's what's left for the taxpayers to pay. So what we have in here is our estimation for tuition. This is tuition re receive from in-state $750,000. These are kids who are coming to our school district and we charge their district for revenue. I'm sorry for tuition the vocational education tuitions same thing. Transportation fees which come from vocational,  is looking to be flat interest income. I dropped the estimate by 30,000 because I don't think anybody's paying interest anymore.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: But maybe that'll go up over the course of the coming year. Pupil activities are donations and such to come in, as is other our larger donations, miscellaneous revenues that

[R12115-192] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: district and we charge their district for revenue. I'm sorry for tuition the vocational education tuitions same thing. Transportation fees which come from vocational, is looking to be flat interest income. I dropped the estimate by 30,000 because I don't think anybody's paying interest anymore.
TEXT> But maybe that'll go up over the course of the coming year. Pupil activities are donations and such to come in,  as is other our  larger donations, miscellaneous revenues that we receive over the course of the year are  fund balance to reduce taxes, we anticipate that we'll have a $400,000 surplus. As tight as we try to clamp down on the budget, you're not going to get to zero, and we don't want to be in the negative because you can't cover the negative. There's no way to do that. So we're always slightly on the positive. And the $400,000 number has been an estimate we used. Now  this past year we returned $1.3 million. So we've been successfully returning above that 400. But that's where we're starting out at. And then last year the  the budget included $400,000 coming from an expendable trust, which was the special education expendable trust. We of course not have that going into next year. So total local sources.  Let me come back. Let's just hold on that total for a second. Go down to the bottom part, which is adequate education grants. The state modified how they're handling adequate education grants and its relationship to the statewide education property tax. They dropped the statewide education property tax from a 1.8%, I believe, to 1.25%.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So we are, in effect, charging ourselves a lower amount on statewide property tax. It's good. There's still making up the amount of adequate education. So adequate education are two

[R12115-219] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: Speak to that. Okay.
TEXT> So the idea on that now is going on for a little bit. Was doing things all the time in the program studies and the elected. And frankly, it's been a big,  a change for what I'm used to in the transition to New Hampshire from my previous state is that oftentimes and I, I, I'm backtracking a little bit, but, it's, it's you propose a program of studies, then the other scheduling process. And this is why I refer to because she's masterful at you have to get all the tallies and what the students want to take and all the other types of  process that, that it's quite a process. It doesn't necessarily align with what will run and what won't run. There's a couple of proposals that have been put out there to try to see what students want. That was one of them.  And also  but then there's decisions made on on what will actually run, because we don't know how many students want to take this elective, that elective and the like. So,  this one is, is intended to be  used to have an early childhood class here that also  was part of the CTE center.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're not sure if we're going to be able to to we wanted to put forth a teacher ed program at multi-level, so that we would be able to have

[R12115-220] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: what will actually run, because we don't know how many students want to take this elective, that elective and the like. So, this one is, is intended to be used to have an early childhood class here that also was part of the CTE center.
TEXT> We're not sure if we're going to be able to to we wanted to put forth a teacher ed program at multi-level,  so that we would  be able to have kids at the students work and kind of get the basics of going into the education field, kind of growing our own,  so to speak. And there are other,  districts out there that have that, that at each level. So the middle school, elementary and high school, that's what we're proposing. So as I understand it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, Josh.

[R12115-226] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School administrator presenting the progra | 2022-01-05
PREV> Nicholas Stone: Are we still offering French? Three and four.
TEXT> Yes, because there's students in French. There's 14 students in French. Two. Now that to meet the 27 credit diploma will need to move forward to French three. So assume again based on selection by students and et cetera that we still have to look at  we should we will need to offer the. Is your phasing out a program. You don't want to lose the students that are already in there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And the the other thing that's fluid with that again, when we see what the tallies are, there's also other ways to do that. And I it is, it is

[R12115-227] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: three. So assume again based on selection by students and et cetera that we still have to look at we should we will need to offer the. Is your phasing out a program. You don't want to lose the students that are already in there.
TEXT> And the the other thing that's fluid with that again, when we see what the tallies are, there's also other ways to do that. And I  it is, it is I don't want to say unique because I don't know the entire area, but I was a high school principal of schools, you know, large it's tough to sustain three languages, even two languages, when you have a population of about,  you know, 500. There's also other ways to get those, whether it be online classes and things like that. This is and I'll just pair up. You can certainly speak for yourself, but when you when you, when you look at the what's an elective. What's a core class is principal  barrier I think eloquently and  somewhat a wake up call  talking to the in the graduation address  last year spoke about how many kids made it through and how tough it tough it was. And  what we've been looking at is trying to see,  particularly with next year, what we need to do to sustain,  students and curb the failure rates, particularly in the core elective classes. And that's what we're going to try to also bolster with some of the cares money. So in other types of things where you can push in and  some  you can use that for temporary,  positions also to kind of get that get that on track.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's one of the things we're looking at. And that's for another meeting. I don't want to belabor this one with that, and I'll speak more to that as well.

[R12115-241] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Still Google Sheets is not Excel as we often.
TEXT> So I've got a couple of  comments. They all relate to running start. Okay. So  the first thing is I mentioned it last year and I noticed that it didn't get fixed in this year. So it's very important is the health science to at Newport as medical terminology and law and ethics. That's six running start credits. And it does not get a mention in the program of studies that those are running start courses that that it is a running start course and it is okay. The  the other thing that there's I think some confusion about sometimes our articulation agreements and running start because they are not they are not the same. Right. So I think it would be and I noticed that in the beginning of the tech offerings that listed that we have articulation agreements with all of these colleges and universities. Personally, I think it would be much more useful to kids if they if those courses were in the description. So if if we have an articulate with North Country Community College for culinary that should be listed under culinary not sort of in the heading of of the tech courses, you know what I'm saying?
NEXT> Unidentified: I double check I think it's in both, but I'll double check that for you.

[R12115-267] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: The letter grades. Yeah. Do you see the same thing? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So it's only what, a four five a four and a three, I know. And then there's nothing below that.
TEXT> So got updated in the student teacher the student parent handbook, but not the program. Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So we have made that change because I know there's some current concerns and questions about how the competencies are being melded into the actual final grade and the discretion

[R12115-273] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School administrator presenting the progra | 2022-01-05
PREV> Nicholas Stone: So why is it coming back? Is there.
TEXT> There was a teacher interested in bringing it back, and some students requested, could we see if we had enough students to teach it again,  and make sure that it's not at the  detriment of other programs, other running start classes. And again, in the process of students selecting classes will be able to assess that.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: Out, because I know that when we, when I took it and when he, might be the Saint Peter might not be, was he?

[R12115-285] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: That, I have been answered.
TEXT> So one of the things that used to happen with kids is,  is that they really,  would put themselves in a situation where they could never really they had such a deficit in credits that they could never go to Newport to take a course, for example. And so they may have, if I think if you fail one class, perhaps with a 27 credit requirement, you're mathematically eliminated from ever going to Newport. You can't do it because you can't factor in the transportation time and earn sufficient credits. You're just you're just eliminated from that. So that's one of the reasons I know we did. That's one of the reasons we had the 20 credit.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So I'm not disputing the 20 credit. I'm disputing the discrepancy between six electives on less credits, higher credit count, lower elective count. That's where I'm that's what I'm questioning.

[R12115-289] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School administrator presenting the progra | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: I get that, but is is it very specific as to what we offer for the electives? It has to be five electives or do.
TEXT> So what happens in the other? In the 27 credit they have to take three sections of a language. So whereas if a 20 credit student had language classes, it would go under their electives for the and also for the 23 credit that would happen. The other the other balance there comes in what the state minimum is for  English and math are the same. Well, math goes down by one, but English is the same. Math goes down by one. There has to be two sciences,  half a credit less social studies. So it, we can't change those. And then they get to the six credits, which is the to make up to the 20. That's minimum for the state.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And that's kind of where I was going. I mean my understanding is, is that it has to meet or exceed said standard. So with that's where my question really

[R12115-300] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: We do one a 23 and the 27. But if we want to call it the 20 credit. Mr.. Thomas my in my incorrect.
TEXT> No you're you're accurate particularly with kids who struggle, kids who struggle in any way shape or form. And I won't even go into that. But we. A lot of kids have a lot of a lot of challenges, a lot of kids, traditional core academics is not their thing. Sometimes, as you heard it, sometimes it's an extra curricular we  sometimes it's other types of things, sometimes it's hands on.  And what this does is get more flexibility for them. So that's that's the we could, you know, if you exceeded the core academic. I honestly I think there's enough flexibility in there to get people through that baseline. So that's.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Great question. How many credits is plumbing one or building trades one currently. Is it one credit or two okay. So and then we only offer up to two correct

[R12115-302] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: Great question. How many credits is plumbing one or building trades one currently. Is it one credit or two okay. So and then we only offer up to two correct plumbing in two building two. Yeah. Correct. So that'd be four electives.
TEXT> And there's some introductory courses. Sometimes kids  will will go to plumbing. A doctor Herzog can speak will go to plumbing and then they'll also go to carpentry. Some kids are just that, that hands on type of kid. And that's,  some kids also might,  want to go do more social studies. Some kids might want to do more math. And it doesn't it,  the foreign language piece, particularly with,  many students, that's the whole premise of an elective, you know,  you know, versus a core competency. And someone also has the someone can elect to take more social studies, history or math if they want as well. But that's just the, you know, so there's more freedom in that. And we can I believe.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's what happens.

[R12115-305] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I mean, they could actually take an extra math class and would be considered an elective.
TEXT> So that's going completely again, what my point is, is that it's coming into our program of studies. It shouldn't be an elective. It should be a requirement. That's interesting. So that's why I asked the question about doing the two trades classes, because that's four credits. That gives you two additional electives. So that once again fills the void in the four main. Because at the end of the day, we still need to produce functioning adults coming out of our district. And whether they're great with a hammer or not, because I took plumbing and heating, I didn't end up using it. And I could have took a turnkey business in California and probably be worth lots of money right now. But I didn't do that. I went into a different trade that wasn't offered here at the Tech Center. But what I'm getting at is that we have the ability to declare those electives and we our our mission statement, everything we're trying to do for this district says we want to boost test scores, boost the knowledge we're sending kids out with. And that's kind of what I was going with, is in the program of studies, it's it could be guideline where it's more of the core four courses.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I don't know how you get there. I don't really kind of care how we get there, but seeing that you can have more electives to get a diploma and

[R12115-312] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School administrator presenting the progra | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: Of studies, though. So that's why it's I mean, it's like the third page.
TEXT> And  so I think there's other. People that,  the type of student that's first of all, the 20 credit is few and far between. So we know students starts here saying, I'm going to be on the 20 credit unless there's an IEP or something like that involved. So  I say a student moves to our district and they come from a whole different set of they come from another state, and the whole set of rules are different then that allow that may allow them, even though they've had all these kinds of phenomenal courses that their state requires, it may not match the New Hampshire requirements. And so if they come to us as a junior, then the 20 credit may allow them. Although they have all these extra credits, they may have more credits than that, but it allows them to meet other state standard and graduate on time. There are  other ways. Certainly IEPs play into it. Certainly, if a student has gotten,  they had a medical issue and they were out for a long period of time, there's a lot of different reasons why the 20 credit may be offered to a student. It's not how any student starts out.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to echo that,

[R12115-315] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: I'm not complaining about the 20 credit.
TEXT> That's what it is. Oh, Steve, it's not a it's not a it's not a plan. It's a fallback plan or a contingency plan. It's a rescue plan. It's what it is for kids that get themselves in a situation.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And I completely understand that. But if it's going to be the fallback, it should be a basic education, not a ton of electives. That's what I'm getting at. I

[R12115-316] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's what it is. Oh, Steve, it's not a it's not a it's not a plan. It's a fallback plan or a contingency plan. It's a rescue plan. It's what it is for kids that get themselves in a situation.
TEXT> And I completely understand that. But if it's going to be the fallback, it should be a basic education, not a ton of electives. That's what I'm getting at. I mean, why are we going to pass a child who doesn't have a well-rounded understanding of English, mathematics, history, and science because they got a French one credit? That's what I'm hearing is an excuse. That's what I'm hearing right now. All I'm saying is, is changing it from six in the program of studies to four and increasing the basic studies, because that still gets them to the tech center. It's definitely the lightest state minimum. And actually being a kid who faced the state minimum and the consequences of being a New Hampshire child, I couldn't transfer into California for my senior year. So I came back because the credit requirements didn't meet. So I had an option two years of school or come home and get my one. Well, you know what? Being the guy that I am, I want out. So I came back home. It did my one. So I understand that there's tons of moving parts, but that doesn't. Those moving parts do not dictate the goal.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Is the goal exactly. Our goal is to have better educated children coming out of the district. And the core for I mean, keep it simple, stupid. Just to put

[R12115-317] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: get my one. Well, you know what? Being the guy that I am, I want out. So I came back home. It did my one. So I understand that there's tons of moving parts, but that doesn't. Those moving parts do not dictate the goal.
TEXT> Is the goal exactly. Our goal is to have better educated children coming out of the district. And the core for I mean, keep it simple, stupid. Just to put it right out there. The Kiss theory, the basic four. Very important. They still have four electives. We're talking about cutting it by two electives get by giving them the well-rounded education that they truly need. Not just saying, well, this kid's kind of a pain in the butt, or they have some issue here or this and that, and just pushing them through the system with a 20 credit diploma.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Good.

[R12115-319] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Good.
TEXT> I think I'm gonna agree with Frank is what he mentioned earlier,  especially because the problem is too is it's not just the class sequence. If they're in the situation, the scheduling might not be the easiest thing to do. So if someone, say, a tech class and they transfer from some other state or whatever, then you're stuck with either taking,  a math elective or you're stuck with taking an English elective. Or maybe they want to go in the trades where, you know, I know that our our big push is working on test scores, but above all else should be focused on producing students that can function outside of the school, which may be more heavily tech focused, maybe more heavily academic focus. So I think kind of if we take away that, that freedom for that extra elective and we're kind of doing a disservice to certain kids who might want to take a different path rather than just boost the test scores.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: It didn't, though. That's why I asked the question.

[R12115-323] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah, I was going to say one.
TEXT> Because you can't change it now.  You screw up all kinds of kids that are trying to graduate.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And when can we do this? So I think it's.

[R12115-330] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: there, which really shouldn't be a problem because it's the stuff is the basic stuff which is inside the school already. I don't see I don't see the challenge or understand the the rebuttal. I'm getting on on this and maybe, maybe I'm just, no.
TEXT> I don't think anyone's refuting the the core and the focus on those things. I think. What  without  again,  it's not the time to belabor it, but when you when you have a different schedule, you could have it's the valuation, the Carnegie units, all the other things for the the seed time, the project, the equity of the courses. What is a core, what is an elective, all those types of things. You want that foundation for the citizenry that everyone is echoed? I agree, but you do need a degree of flexibility. But you also can look at it by what is the value of the district, that community, and how does that shape on the school profile. So you can't do one without the other. And you a program of studies, just like a budget, is a value statement on where you're putting your eggs in what basket for the end result, for outcomes for students. So I  we have to have more of that discussion I completely agree. So in the administrative team as well as  the teachers are all about that as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So okay. So would you be able to add the icon onto.

[R12115-335] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: What.
TEXT> Kids already have them in hand.
NEXT> Unidentified: Vs no.

[R12115-348] David Bailey | Stevens High School administrator and school safety liaison (introduce | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So you you have announced fire drills and you have unannounced fire drills. Drew.
TEXT> All our all our fire drills are unannounced to the the students and staff. You know.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There's no idea when they're going to happen.

[R12115-352] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member, either Rob Lovett Jr. or Michael Petrin b | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Right.
TEXT> So I kind of asked about this topic because of the recent lockdown, the lockdown drill, as it was called.  Just trying to get a better understanding of how that those lockdowns drills work. Getting reports back. Obviously, I have two kids in the high school, plus hearing from other. I kind of asked other parents, but they heard from their kids. Hearing back of it being a rather and I, I, I have to take it with a grain of salt because I know teenagers are dramatic.  But getting hearing back of this event, this lockdown drill really almost being traumatizing,  kids not knowing it as a drill, teachers not knowing it was a drill. Police coming through different classrooms and students hearing reports of students being fearful of y. You know, the cops coming through, were they the intruder? Were the police?  And like I said, I understand students are overly dramatic.  So I'm not sure if teachers know that the lockdown drill is coming so they can calm students if students are getting upset.  Reports of one classroom on one of the upper floors, the teacher and students tying sheets together in case they had to escape out the window during the lockdown drill. That to me it appears to be traumatizing rather than effective. So just that was kind of where my question is coming from, right?
NEXT> David Bailey: I can tell you, this is the first I've heard of people tying sheets to climb out the window. The third floor. We don't announce that it's a drill when

[R12115-368] Unidentified | Unidentified - district administrator citing three and a half decades  | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: or hide under a desk, and that's what you're going to do. The bigger thing is, is it's also for admin and other people to see where the discrepancies are or where the the whole whole picture comes together if there needs to be changes.
TEXT> I'd like to interject just a second to kind of address the I think it's, there's an area in between which I think we're discovering as we're coming back from a time of, not wanting to cluster kids together in close proximity because of the pandemic. And there has been this gap of time for drills and the functionality of drills in the traditional sense. Having worked in numerous school systems over the last three and a half decades, now it is standard procedure to not differentiate between a drill because, as Steve said, that is exactly you want that authentic response. You don't want to to necessarily,  explain that it's a drill. However, in our we ironically.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We had.

[R12115-370] Unidentified | Unidentified - district administrator citing three and a half decades  | 2022-01-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: We had.
TEXT> This meeting earlier today looking at all of our schools and all of our procedures in the district as a way to kind of refresh and spot those gaps in our plans and, and make sure that we are handling the myriad of, of potential crises that could happen. And I think what we're discovering is that we can prepare  in a way that will help alleviate some of that stress, so that it's not just December. And all of a sudden, boom, there's a lockdown drill after they've had a fire drill in October and a shelter in place in November. And now it's a lockdown or clear the hallway drill that there can be,  practice that leads up to that school wide so that students know this is something we will be doing through the year. You may or may not. You're not going to be told what it will be, but it helps to alleviate fears. And I think that's might be one of the things that the saw is, is currently not doing that we could do better. And that's help in that training. That helps to kind of de-escalate so that it becomes autopilot.
NEXT> Unidentified: It becomes less scary to the kids because they because we don't want that sense of panic. If something does happen. You don't want that sense of panic where the

[R12115-377] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to set up soon. We know that we have to talk to, you know, to get everything all aligned and start getting next year's calendar ready at the end of this year. So that's it's it's we can definitely do more with this. I agree.
TEXT> The last thing I want to talk about was I, I get a lot of emails and calls about, the, the communication when there is a drill, whether it be a fire drill, lockdown, something like that, where either kids at an appointment there, they leave early because, you know, they have, you know, social worker, whatever, that kind of stuff. And they still get disciplined like they are, you know, they get sent to ES or OS webmaster with the severity of that is,  I would just like that to have the idea that we work more towards communication. That way there's not a mix up with certain kids, because that was an even issue when I was in school was, you know, if there wasn't enough communication, they would still get es even though they were at that point or so. And so whatever. Because that is a big thing I do hear from parents a lot during the drills. Is that kind of,  is punishment without really real cause because, you know, they're told by an adult, whether it be a teacher, administrator, social worker, nurse, something like that, that they can leave where then the drill happens and then they get, you know, punished for that. So I think that needs to be  addressed, whether it be the high school, probably a middle school, high school, it's mostly what I hear about it and happening in.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Thank you.

[R12115-395] Veronica | District nurse coordinator, SAU 6 (first name only; surname garbled by | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: No, that's why was this a complete discussion at this point? And that it just it worked out well as I saw you were here. So I was like, she's got answers. Yay!
TEXT> So just to share with you, I was at,  the state phone call today with Doctor Chan, and they, Part of the issue that that happened was that the  CDC put out their media statement, but they didn't share all of the specific guidance with the states. Shame on the United States. You no shame on these facilities. So that then put us in a bind with with parents coming back and students coming back and asking these questions on this phone call today, the New Hampshire state, they are going to adopt the five days. There's some caveats to it. And there are some some other qualifications around it. But it is the quarantine for five days. The state is requesting that if there is a household contact that we continue with the ten days, there will no longer have to be the student out for 20 days, which you know, I didn't agree with to start with. I've made it very clear, but it was a recommendation that had been made.  So if you don't want to follow that, that would be fine. We can do the bare minimum of what  the CDC, the five day guidance is coming from the state. I'll have more information from the state over the next couple of days that will give us more, paperwork and more understanding to make it more understandable to send out to parents to make it.
NEXT> Veronica: You know, everybody is on the same page and understands what's going on. So I just want to let you know.

[R12115-404] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: So we have a full picture of what we're truly dealing with, to, to make a and then make a vote of what we're going to do.
TEXT> I know when when I worked in the schools. The student got suspended for ten days, pretty much done for that semester because that's that's a lot of time to miss. So, Nick.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: I had two clarifying questions, I guess. So was it determined? There was, two kids in the basketball team are three. I'm not sure what the final number was because.

[R12115-405] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I know when when I worked in the schools. The student got suspended for ten days, pretty much done for that semester because that's that's a lot of time to miss. So, Nick.
TEXT> I had two clarifying questions, I guess. So was it determined? There was,  two kids in the basketball team are three. I'm not sure what the final number was because.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Positives one exposed at home.

[R12115-418] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Mary Burke: Okay.
TEXT> So my question was, is this is because the email and then what has been kind of bounced around here was there was 2 or 3 kids that were considered the cluster, which I think it's two and above is what the state classifies it as. And on the dashboard for our school system, it says there's only two. So that's where I'm kind of confused if there's the two or the actual cluster that can be done, because that was a big thing when our first,  discussion on Covid was, what do we define as a cluster? And I thought that we kind of, I don't say agreed to, but, so further that there's.
NEXT> Mary Burke: So the New Hampshire toolkit defines it as three or more, and I have it right in front of me. And they are confirmed positive cases of three or more

[R12115-419] Mary Burke | Public commenter, Ward 2 (parent of a CMS basketball player) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Nicholas Stone: or the actual cluster that can be done, because that was a big thing when our first, discussion on Covid was, what do we define as a cluster? And I thought that we kind of, I don't say agreed to, but, so further that there's.
TEXT> So the New Hampshire toolkit defines it as three or more, and I have it right in front of me. And they are confirmed positive cases of three or more that have  the potential to transmit infections to each other, who have had the potential to transmit infections to each other through close contact.  It's a small town. There's ten kids on the team, I didn't. It's not hearsay, but we also know how many kids are positive. My son was included as the third child, and I was also told by the CMS nurse that when she gives her information to the nurse that he is included in that count because he's unvaccinated with a contact at home.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: My biggest concern is, is that there was three. There's only two reported on the spreadsheet that we use for the dashboard. And then the second question I had was,

[R12115-440] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Nicholas Stone: I.
TEXT> I want to true. But when we're mis classifying possibly a student because of a Covid positive member of the household and that the child's tested negative per the email twice, that person shouldn't be counted as a positive, especially if the parents off quarantine.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Because the student's not vaccinated is. That puts them in that category?

[R12115-441] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: I want to true. But when we're mis classifying possibly a student because of a Covid positive member of the household and that the child's tested negative per the email twice, that person shouldn't be counted as a positive, especially if the parents off quarantine.
TEXT> Because the student's not vaccinated is. That puts them in that category?
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: Yes. Which is state guidelines. Yeah. Which ones.

[R12115-484] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Prepared for some kind of data and.
TEXT> Yeah, I don't want to just we're going to roll out heavily on the administration for this. I'm very interested in the reason I asked. Steve, I'm curious how many cumulative days kids are missing of school, how much school are kids missing? Because that's that's I mean, you know, work in the schools. That's brutal. Brutal. And to be out like that. Josh.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: If possible, can I real quick read the first part of the latest guidance from the state from December 1st.

[R12115-493] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School administrator presenting the progra | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Go ahead.
TEXT> Okay. So these are from Mrs. Barry.  We have 38 students currently still signed up, still planning and going, etc.. The back there is a vaccine mandate. And you'd be fully vaccinated with two vaccines. You don't have to have a booster.  And you have to test -48 hours prior to getting on the plane. We've had five students pull out because of the vaccine mandate and a couple more because of financial  impact.  Yep.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: What are they doing from eight to get a test to go?

[R12115-513] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member, either Rob Lovett Jr. or Michael Petrin b | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Then that's.
TEXT> That's a derogatory,  they can choose not to go. I, I think the trips approved. And it's up to the parents and the students and if they want to go or not, they know that the refund is and, it's it's a choice they're making.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I strongly disagree because that's us sanctioning a discretion discretion discriminatory event because of people's decision to have vaccines or not, because you have kids that are in families that

[R12115-514] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: That's a derogatory, they can choose not to go. I, I think the trips approved. And it's up to the parents and the students and if they want to go or not, they know that the refund is and, it's it's a choice they're making.
TEXT> I strongly disagree because that's us sanctioning a discretion discretion discriminatory event because of people's decision to have vaccines or not, because you have kids that are in families that have made decisions not to vaccinate. And we elected this company. And now being told forthwith last minute, you need to have this to go, because that wasn't a concern during the beginning discussion nor disclosed.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Decision. It's their choice. If they choose not to get vaccinated, they don't go. They're making that choice. We're not telling them they have to absolutely get vaccinated or going

[R12115-516] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Joshua Lambert: choice. We're not telling them they have to absolutely get vaccinated or going on this trip. They're making that choice. That's their choice, period. I mean, we're not sanctioning anything discriminatory. We're not forcing them. We're not putting the needle in their own right there.
TEXT> We're forcing other kids that may have wanted to go to not be able to go.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Oh, no, no, it's their decision. If they want to go get the shot.

[R12115-538] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School administrator presenting the progra | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: But it wouldn't hurt to let folks know that whatever the deadline is.
TEXT> Yeah, I think they've had the deadline for a while. There was a I know distant students talking about it who are interested in going way back in the beginning, that they knew that there was a deadline, that those.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Would be positive.

[R12115-572] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Nicholas Stone: How about.
TEXT> I  have a two child combined birthday party in on a weekend in January.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we'll do it in February.

[R12151-6] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 budget; | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> People have a handout also, I believe, or there was one available. There should be three pages to the handout and we'll just work our way down through. So page one of the handout it's also on the screen here which I can't see. But it just breaks it down by location and type of expense. So what we're looking at is for the 2023 2022 2023 proposed budget. The first item there is on debt service, where we're seeing a slight decrease as we continue to pay down on the principal, we see a reduction in the amount of interest being paid. The elementary,  regular education or the special education out of district expenses for elementary is seeing a slight decrease, as  the special education group has been successful in reducing the amount of out of district placements for our elementary students and keeping those students within our city, within our school district. So we see a $10,000 reduction there as we go into the individual buildings. The Bluff School is seeing a reduction of $134,000. This relates to a combination where we had a one less position within the Bluff School,  because we had fewer students at bluff as compared to over a designer than what was originally anticipated. We also had a couple of situations where teachers that were coming in and and new employees coming in, replacing past employees.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We're taking a lower cost health insurance plan. Maple Avenue is seeing a $75,000 increase. This is really solely related to contractual increases on salaries. And on health insurance desired.

[R12151-7] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 budget; | 2022-01-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: position within the Bluff School, because we had fewer students at bluff as compared to over a designer than what was originally anticipated. We also had a couple of situations where teachers that were coming in and and new employees coming in, replacing past employees.
TEXT> We're taking a lower cost health insurance plan. Maple Avenue is seeing a $75,000 increase. This is really solely related to contractual increases on salaries.  And on health insurance desired. Again, we see a larger increase here. This is really the geography coming out of the Bluff School where the teacher wasn't needed at the Bluff School was needed at Disney,  as well as the contractual increases. The middle school again also has the contractual increases, but also did see an increase in the out of district  anticipated placements of $127,000. So again, this is built up by the special ed department of each one of our kiddos, where they know what their needs are, where they're likely to be going, and then they're built up kiddo by kiddo. Stevens High School is seeing a  $454,000 reduction, primarily as it relates to the reduction of out of district placements for high school kids, including the budget as a $610,000 reduction in out of district. The difference between that and the savings that we're seeing here again, is the contractual and health care increases. Alternative support, or the pride program is just the contractual increases.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Sugar River Valley Regional Tech Center reduction of 181,000 is made up of of four positions that have been modified. One is the accounting position, which is unfilled this year

[R12151-10] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 budget; | 2022-01-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: and technology also is relatively flat, as the school district is benefited significantly from the CARES money that has come in and from other grants that Jeff Small has been able to attract to significantly improve the technology that we have within the school district.
TEXT> So the budget as it is presented is a decrease of $541,581. If we take this over, excuse me to page two of the presentation, which is what's going on from a revenue point of view. So I'm going to hold on the first line, the district assessment, because the district assessment is in effect a plug number at the end. Once we know all of our other revenues, how much needs to be raised from the local district assessments, tuition is anticipated to be flat at the 750,000, as is the tuition for vocational education and transportation fees, which is what we receive also as it relates to the tech center. Interesting come was reduced to 30,000. We're just not seeing any interest rates on investment accounts or on any of our deposit accounts. Pupil activities activity fees at 1500s held flat and then other is basically contributions that are being made. And that's a reasonably consistent number from one year to the next. We also anticipate being able to carry in $400,000 fund balance, or what would be considered a surplus from this year into next year's budget as a funding source. There's a reduction of the expendable trust that was a one time item included in this year and would not be included in next year.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So we're looking at the local sources, net of the district assessment at the 177, and I'll come back to the district assessment. Adequate education grant is increased to 13,000,009.95,

[R12151-11] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 budget; | 2022-01-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: fund balance, or what would be considered a surplus from this year into next year's budget as a funding source. There's a reduction of the expendable trust that was a one time item included in this year and would not be included in next year.
TEXT> So we're looking at the local sources, net of the district assessment at the 177, and I'll come back to the district assessment. Adequate education grant is increased to 13,000,009.95, which comes from the state. It's based on the number of  free and reduced students that we have in the district,  as well as  oh, what's the term called?  Pardon me.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You IP yes. And that AYP. Yes. Average.

[R12151-13] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 budget; | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: You IP yes. And that AYP. Yes. Average.
TEXT> Average daily average daily pupils that we have. The state property tax is down because the state reduced the property tax rate from 1.85 to 1.23, which in Claremont's  position is a great benefit because we use all of our state property tax in effect, to fund our school, our school district. So if we're getting less or we're having to pay ourselves less on the property tax, we're getting more as an offset in the adequate aid, catastrophic aid or aid that we receive for the very highest priced kiddos from our out district placements. Our out district placements is held flat of the 600,000, as is Medicaid at 500,000. So we're looking at total state revenues of the 16,070,000. And again, going back to the top line, which is the ultimate plug number. Once we incorporate all of our state revenues as well as these other revenues, how much needs to be raised with our local education tax? And that number is 16,305,000, which provides us with the amount of funding we need in order to meet what we showed on the previous page. The $34,778,825 budget in going to page three, which is what does this mean from a tax perspective?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So if we take our total budget appropriation now, you'll see that this is higher in that we received grants for food grants for such as title Ida money, other

[R12151-15] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 budget; | 2022-01-18
PREV> Richard Seaman: we do need to add to that the state tax rate, the Swift, the statewide education property tax of $1.23, because we're paying that, in effect fund a part of our education, which gives us a total tax rate of $22.85 based on our estimates.
TEXT> And that compared to last year's budget, which was reviewed and approved by the voters, which you see in column one, that's exactly the budget there was approved last year, sets us right now at $1.68 reduction. If we go down. Actually, let me go over to the default budget first, and then we'll come down to the individual warrant articles that have been proposed to bring forward. The default budget is not going to be different than the than the recommended budget. And the reason for this is default budgets basically take out any large one time expenditures from your current year or any, and takes out any growth that you've incorporated into your budget for next year. So if we were bringing on a new program, if we were bringing on five new teachers, if we were bringing on something that was we'd have to take that out in the in the default budget, we are not anticipating those in the upcoming budget. The upcoming budget is basically the same as this budget. There are some geographic moves depending on where students are or different types of programs, but there isn't any growth.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: And we didn't have one time money in this year's budget. Again, normally that would be in technology or that would be in facilities. And we did that a couple

[R12151-28] John Lambert | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'John Labor'; chair calls him 'Mr. Lambe | 2022-01-18
PREV> John Lambert: all the technical courses here are called elective to address poor math, English and science scores. Why is it? Why is there not discussion regarding embedded English and math here to improve those scores, rather than increasing core at the academic side of the school?
TEXT> Technicians in these programs were students can experience practical applications of the subjects and more willingness to learn them.  Why are you not offering longer technical blocks?  Because right now, with a 10 or 20 minute travel time, in a 70 minute block, you got less than half of that period actual hands on. But by the time you pick up and put tools away, even if you increased it by 50%, you would have twice as much on hand times in the class. You would also reduce buffing. You'd have longer periods with technicians here learning core subjects, and unless transportation and an ability maybe to get them to Newport and back properly and spend more time there. The  the tech center helps prepare students to further their education at an affordable two year college or a degree of four year college. Employers in our community have many job openings and their offerings high pay jobs right out of school. Many success stories of graduates have been sent to the school board director,  chair and to the superintendent, and I hope they shared them with you. But there are some great stories of people in our community working in our community from graduating to school. And some of them are saying, I wouldn't have completed high school unless I had a technical offering.
NEXT> John Lambert: So our community needs good technical education in our high school program of study. And right now we I don't see that either from the school board of the administration

[R12151-35] Kip Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 2 (uncertain - self-ID heard only as 'Ryan, als | 2022-01-18
PREV> Kip Ryan: that program. And I'm a sales manager for a local IT company today. So, you know, I'm one of the success stories from the programs that were offered here. So, you know, we've whittled away from 11, I believe, at the height down to four.
TEXT> I know that we're planning on adding a teacher prep that's going to make five losing. Mr. Pope, we can control cajole all we want, but I think that he deserves his,  you know, retirement and  his golf. And I certainly hope that we'll find someone who will be able to,   step in and keep those going  or his course going. You know, my I have three kids in the district,  one at bluff and two at the middle school. One of them is  not probably going to be a traditional learner. He's not probably going to be a kid that, you know, strives and really wants to go to college. But this summer, he took Mr. Pope's,  engineering camp, and he absolutely loved it. And he is, you know, one of many who would be a prime candidate for  something like that when high school comes around. So it's my opinion that we need to double down. We need to be all in on the programs. We need to grow the programs we need to not keep whittling away until there's nothing left.  You know, the owner of my company is right here.
NEXT> Kip Ryan: You know, I'm the I'm the sales manager. He's, you know, I'm in charge of growing the company or, you know, a part of growing the company. He's not going

[R12151-40] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified at [78]); elected to the boa | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Bonnie, I think that's funny.
TEXT> Thank you. Bonnie, Miles and I live in Ward two. And,  from I watched the school board meeting,  and took notes and  asked some questions. And I'm really worried about this school,  because we do need electricians and plumbers and carpenters and all those kinds of people who are hands on people, and this is where they get their stock. And I hate to see us lose this,  this school. You have a handout. My son went to this school. Doug Morton was his teacher, and  he's the one who got him going and got him interested in going to a vocational college in Manchester. And from there he excelled. He took more classes because he really started to like it. This is a kid who was not going to graduate from high school, and today he is the president of  Den Ron.  Denman Plumbing and Heating and then Ron Hall Plumbing and Heating, with between 225 and 250 employees. I'm not going to do the mom thing, nothing like that. I just want to tell you that this is what started him.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: This is what got him going. And we and I see these classes disappearing. And what are we doing? I, I know you guys have a hard job, I get

[R12151-64] Kelly Fontaine | Public commenter, Ward 1, Stevens life skills teacher | 2022-01-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Kelly Fontaine, Ward one. And also I'm here to speak about the autism specialist. If I'm not, I might be incorrect, but I believe there's a few other people that have recently been certified as autism specialists in the district, so I don't know if that has something to do with that, but I'm sure those people already have their hands full with what they're doing. I don't think they can take on any more  as the autism specialist.  Amy's been doing this for a long time, and I can tell you, in my 33 years as the life skills teacher at the high school. Yes, I see you doing the math I started when I was two.  That's why you laugh.  Anyways,  I in my 33 years,  I have seen a lot of staff come and I've seen a lot of go. And she certainly is not somebody that the district should see go.  She. We need people with her capabilities to surround these students. These are the students that we are  helping to grow so that they are going to be members of our community members that we want in our community. And this is really where it starts. She's in my program two days a week, and I could use her for five.
NEXT> Kelly Fontaine: As the years have gone, I have my number of pairs have decreased the days. And I'm not comparing her to, you know, because she has a very, she's a

[R12151-65] Kelly Fontaine | Public commenter, Ward 1, Stevens life skills teacher | 2022-01-18
PREV> Kelly Fontaine: we are helping to grow so that they are going to be members of our community members that we want in our community. And this is really where it starts. She's in my program two days a week, and I could use her for five.
TEXT> As the years have gone, I have my number of pairs have decreased the days. And I'm not comparing her to, you know, because she has a very,  she's a expertise in this area.  And so  the Amy's in my program. I know I can say, I can breathe a sigh of relief that there's somebody there to help the students deal with their emotional, social,  behavioral needs so that I can teach. And that is only a little perspective of what she does throughout the district.  So I'm definitely asking that if she's if she wasn't the autism specialist that the district would, would,  commit to having some position in the district that she would be able to do. Because I definitely think that you don't want to let good employees go. I think it shows a lack of respect for the people who are here. When there is somebody who's doing their job, they're working really hard and they're making a difference, and then you just say, sorry, it's time to go.  We need more. Amy's, not less Amy's.  So thank you very much.
NEXT> Michael Demers: Michael Ward three. So I'd like to to also kind of kick back to the tech centerpiece. I think that the the funding change, 16, 17% decrease in the budget

[R12151-67] Michael Demers | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Michael Ward three' at [130]; surna | 2022-01-18
PREV> Michael Demers: I think the the need here is really to take a strong look at what it is we're trying to accomplish. And if you're going to pay for a building, you're going to heat a building, you're going to have an administrator on that building.
TEXT> You've got a lot of fixed costs involved. It would certainly seem like it would make more sense to, as Kip said, double down and make the programs  more prolific  and hopefully,  you know, make them more cost effective by doing that to continue cutting  the cost of of offering tech education, I think is a  game of diminishing.  And ultimately we're going to see this, this experiment fail. And I think that's too bad. I've got a child much like what Kip described. It's most likely not going to be headed down the college path. He's a really bright kid.  But,  you know, the kind of programs that are in here are perfect for what he's interested in. I think we need more plumbers, and we need more carpenters, and we need more people who have culinary skills and other kinds of things which  this building has produced in the past. And,  you know, you tried to hire a plumber lately,  carpenters, HVAC people. You know, these people are hard to find, and they're very expensive. There's a lack of people going in those trades. So,  I have a concern around that. I'd like you to, you know, consider what you're doing and look at strategies for increasing our technical education offerings in Claremont versus making them go extinct. Thank you.
NEXT> Hilary Walch: Hilary Walch, Ward one I wasn't planning on speaking tonight, but I'd like to speak on both topics. First. On the autism specialist. As a teacher at Stevens High School

[R12151-68] Hilary Walch | Public commenter, Ward 1, Stevens High School teacher (ASR 'Hilary Wal | 2022-01-18
PREV> Michael Demers: There's a lack of people going in those trades. So, I have a concern around that. I'd like you to, you know, consider what you're doing and look at strategies for increasing our technical education offerings in Claremont versus making them go extinct. Thank you.
TEXT> Hilary Walch, Ward one I wasn't planning on speaking tonight, but  I'd like to speak on both topics. First. On the autism specialist. As a teacher at Stevens High School with autism kids integrated into my computer program, Amy is absolutely essential for me  as a resource. I'm not trained like she is. I don't  understand some of the issues that they have, and she is a resource for me to call upon, and she answers me immediately when I'm having issues with a student that she is familiar with. She is vital to  the teachers at Stevens High School as well as the autism kids,  that are are in the school.  Two the technical center. I just wanted to say cutting Alex's job and half would be devastating. I have a leader, son. He went through the program here with  HVAC with Morty. He's very successful. He went to college for two years, and he's very successful. And he. I don't think he would be where he is today without going through this program for two years.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you, thank.

[R12151-71] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Whitney Skilling'); elected to the boar | 2022-01-18
PREV> Whitney Skillen: for an LCS. W we're talking about cuts to all of these, to all of these programs. And I'm wondering it made a lot of sense what you explained why the numbers went down. Because x, y, z things happen and everything is costing less.
TEXT> But if we're spending less because we're saving somehow, don't know the numbers, but I'd love to see the analysis. I'm wondering how could that money be reallocated to meet needs in other areas? Was that part of the consideration? It does something. We're still thinking about it. It's still on the table because I heard we need autism specialists. We probably need social workers. We definitely need more people in our tech schools. And I just feel like, like you said, we're on a slippery slope to doing it the wrong way. And there are places that are really doing it right. And I don't want to get up here and brag about, like where I'm from and whatnot. But Wake County in North Carolina has been investing a, like, crazy amounts of money to grow our technical school program. Wake County Technical College has grown so much new programs, new buildings, new offerings for high school students, and it is having an insanely positive impact in North Carolina. And I know that we need more tradespeople here, because I just moved here into a 70 year old house that needed roof repairs. The back porch was falling down, plumbing repairs, electric repairs, and every single tradesperson I called was over, overbooked and understaffed.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Which means me personally, as a person who went to college and has a regular 9 to 5 computer job, I need my electricians to help me keep my lights

[R12151-74] Renee | Public commenter, Ward 2, salon owner (chair calls her 'Renee' at [151 | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you. Renee.
TEXT> Ian Gates, Ward two. I don't know if I want to follow up after Whitney. That was a outstanding  commendation. And welcome to the community, by the way.  I also was going to talk about the tech center, but I want to address  the needs of the autism specialist. After hearing the pleas. There seems to be some great success with having students stay within our district, and it seems like a really big mistake to get rid of somebody that would allow them to stay here. So I'm not sure where the thought process is on that.  I don't know enough about the subject to continue, but that's my opinion. After hearing the pleas from the rest of the crowd.  I do, however, really feel like the technical center elimination of budgets for the director again is a slippery slope. There is absolutely no reason why  I can fathom to cut the director position and not have us to continue to invest in the director to grow the programs. I had to literally almost laugh out loud and irony as I drove up tonight, because I found out that the middle school was having a plumbing emergency, and there is a technical center graduate working right across the parking lot right now fixing the middle school. So and I'm sure it's because he started his own business within the last year.
NEXT> Renee: So his workload isn't as high as some of the established plumbers here. And he was able to get there. I also have a son in law who started a

[R12151-75] Renee | Public commenter, Ward 2, salon owner (chair calls her 'Renee' at [151 | 2022-01-18
PREV> Renee: found out that the middle school was having a plumbing emergency, and there is a technical center graduate working right across the parking lot right now fixing the middle school. So and I'm sure it's because he started his own business within the last year.
TEXT> So his workload isn't as high as some of the established plumbers here. And he was able to get there. I also have a son in law who started a business this year, graduated of the tech center. My son is seven. I have a feeling that he is probably going to go down that same road in the in the technical world, I don't think that he is going to apply himself to college. I did not either. I also own a business in white River junction. It is a salon, so I need students from cosmetology centers and I know the program is offered in Newport right now, but why are we not growing more programs here? Because I'm going to need I have a I have a stylist right now who is 60 years old and she's going to retire soon. I have been looking for a stylist to hire for the salon for the last two years, that I've owned it since day one. I can't find anybody but somebody with the right skills as a stylist can walk into my salon and make nearly six figures, working 35 hours a week. That's how important and how impactful I've heard people talk about generational poverty in the area and trying to get out of that.
NEXT> Renee: Well, it's not a six figure job, but it sure is a heck of a lot more than the median income in this area right now. And that's for a

[R12151-88] Scott Pope | Public commenter, Ward 2; tech center engineering and machine tool ins | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mr. Pope.
TEXT> Yeah, I hope I can stay within three minutes.  So Scott Pope.  Ward two.  First off,  I've set in a chair similar to the chair you guys are sitting in, I get it. Okay. So  I'm also very personally invested in the schools here in the community. And if I wasn't, you shouldn't be hiring me to do the job. So I do want to speak two topics. First, one is going to be about the perception of career and technical education. There is the perception that this is just the trades. It's for people who are good, good with their hands. And we'll put this kid at the tech kind of thing.  Please remember this is a career and technical center. I've had students in my engineering programs. We've had IT programs. We've had all sorts of programs where students take classes that they go on to college. I'll speak to my program alone at this point. I've sent students out of my engineering and even my machining program to schools like MIT, Norwich.  You know, Clarkson just had a student accepted to New Haven,  Rensselaer,  Rochester Poly, you name it.
NEXT> Scott Pope: These are engineering college, so they aren't up here just to take good with their hands or here to learn about what is engineering all about. Gary McKinney, a former

[R12151-94] Scott Pope | Public commenter, Ward 2; tech center engineering and machine tool ins | 2022-01-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. I would like to donate to the gentleman.
TEXT> I'm going to finish right now. So, so anyway, that that's just my thought on that. And meanwhile, I would like to invite school board members, you know, please come in and see my students.  I'd like to invite some of the members and administration to talk to my advisory committee. I've had a strong one that's about 34 years old. So, I mean, please take up that invitation and thank you for your extra time.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So thank you, Scott. Anyone who hasn't spoken yet, they would like.

[R12151-97] Julie Scala | Public commenter, Stevens graduate (ASR 'Julie Scala'; ward not stated | 2022-01-18
PREV> Unidentified: To I mean.
TEXT> This is so. Exciting to me. My name is Julie Scala. I  just moved back to take care of my parents.  I am a Stevens grad. Where am I? Red and black for Stevens High School.  I moved away and I moved out to Idaho,  which is also a very interesting state,  a lot of agriculture, a lot of similarities out there, a lot of very self-reliant people. This is more of a comment than a question.  One of the main things that I've seen in my travels is that everything has exploded into other countries. It's a global economy. But now with the supply chain issues, it's all coming back to what you have within arm's reach of your community. Claremont sits on a pot of gold here. There is plenty of water.  It's an agrarian society as well as a manufacturing society. We just need to let the students know that they are.  They're valuable  with the tech school. The sky's the limit. Basically, as everybody's mentioned, all of the trades are, highly valued. Now, there are many people that are moving into this area because it is highly sought after for its beauty and  all of the other things.
NEXT> Julie Scala: A lot of people are working from home and they can't get anybody to do these, you know, very hands on things. Claremont is so self-reliant, so much in in

[R12151-102] John Hall | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified at [212]) | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Anyone else who has not spoken that would like to.
TEXT> Thank you, John Hall,  Ward three. I am going to speak,  echoing most of what's been said tonight  in terms of the the tech center. When I left high school in Claremont, this was a new facility and offered tons of opportunities for kids. And a lot of them have gone on to do great things. And it's a little dismaying. It's actually a lot dismaying to see  how far it's declined in terms of total number of opportunities available to students in that time. And I say that with a 14 year old and a 15 year old who are just entering in to the tech schools here now,  you know, back when I was here, you could become an electrician,  after a few years in high school and then a couple at the technical college in Concord,  and you could gain your master's license fairly quickly,  which is not something that's easy to do, especially as an adult. It's sad to see that that's not still offered here. You can still become a plumber and that's great. There's a lot of those, you know, that are needed  throughout the, you know, throughout the community in the country. It's really probably Claremont's most underutilized resource. And you'll have community gatherings where we talk about how we're going to revitalize the community and get everything on track.
NEXT> John Hall: And there's almost always a discussion about how we need more people in the trades, in our factories and our businesses, and how are we going to attract more people.

[R12151-115] Renee | Public commenter, Ward 2, salon owner (chair calls her 'Renee' at [151 | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh, yes. Good. Sorry.
TEXT> I wanted to add, and I should have probably said something earlier, but after I stepped away from the podium, I received several messages.  One again was from the gentleman that's working on the middle school yesterday across the parking lot. He said, sorry I couldn't make it and sent me a picture of what he was working on.  There were two other graduates that were supposed to come here tonight as well. They are both on no heat calls, so they're utilizing the skills that they learned here in their trades right now.  I also received a message from a local business owner that has an auto body shop here that said that they offered the technical school free auto body schooling and training, but nobody took them up on it, and I'm not sure why  that would be. I don't know if there's legal ramifications because they're not an accredited teacher or anything like that, but I would think that somebody that has years and years and years experience of of metal work and auto body work and is a big shortage in the area  that is offering their services to help teach kids. And I'm sure what their end goal was to help gain employees for themselves and when they graduate, why that wasn't taken up.
NEXT> Renee: Back to my comment about generational poverty. You know, it seems like a cut like this, which as a taxpayer, a dollar from the tax rate is great. I understand,

[R12151-119] Derek Ferland | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2022-01-18
PREV> Derek Ferland: and heard him wonder about how we could use all these wonderful building blocks more effectively. So that's the Newport Tech Center, the one here that we're in tonight. River Valley Community College, the makerspace. We have all these wonderful facilities and with different programs.
TEXT> I'm not sure that they're most effectively and efficiently working together because it's never probably been done before. But I think that also could be a big part of this visioning committee. Try to figure out how can we make sure that nothing's redundant, and that all these programs are complementary, and if there are obstacles that are keeping the number of students participating from both Claremont and Newport  to figuring out what those are and eliminating them so we can get more students, reduce our dollar per student costs here at this particular facility. So I think that would be very exciting. I like the suggestion, and so I just wanted to offer my support for that. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I want to I'm going to speak for one second. So in 1993 when these centers open, I was a guidance counselor over in Newport Middle High School, in high

[R12151-120] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-01-18
PREV> Derek Ferland: and eliminating them so we can get more students, reduce our dollar per student costs here at this particular facility. So I think that would be very exciting. I like the suggestion, and so I just wanted to offer my support for that. Thank you.
TEXT> I want to I'm going to speak for one second. So in 1993 when these centers open, I was a guidance counselor over in Newport Middle High School, in high school. And at that time I was sending students over here from there. And there was marketing, early childhood education or childcare, plumbing, building construction, culinary business and computer networking. There are seven programs here. There were never 11 programs in this building. So that's  firsthand knowledge from me sending kids over here. So there were never that many. We started with seven and have some disappeared? Yes they have, and for various reasons, some dating back to when Mr. Damron was  an administrator in the district. So,  Heather, did you want to make some comments?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Sure. I'm going to put my head on the chopping block here, I suppose. Or, offer some clarification or vision. I think that the board has, I speak in part

[R12151-130] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (a commenter cites 'what Heather said' a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Start program and the Bridge to College program that's offered at the technical at the technical College. Now, when when I'm supporting that program, it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm supporting that kids continue to 2 to 4 year college, you know, opportunities college, traps.
TEXT> What I've read leads me to believe that,  that in reality, the skill level  positions are the positions that are most needed. And that means that you have to have a certificate or some post-secondary education. And if we're going to provide kids with a technical experience, we should provide them with technical experience that gives them the opportunity to transition into those kind of tracks. And in addition to that, you have you may have students that start out in the technical track. And if we can give them college credit or a college experience, then they can maybe stitch. So everything that we should do should we should be maximizing every single credit and educational opportunity that we have. And I just want to suggest that folks also look and see what the technical college has to offer, what we're trying to do. And my understanding when I spoke to Mr. Tempesta about this, and this has been something that we've had conversations about for years, is one of the barriers to access to this program. Over here is the high school schedule and the junior high schedule. And in reality, we're trying to find ways to open up scheduling time at CMS so that kids can start participating over here and start exploring opportunities here and getting their hands in their little fingers wet.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: In addition to another this is also mentioned is I think it was that gentleman right there was saying, why aren't we integrating academics and in with these technical programs?

[R12151-131] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (a commenter cites 'what Heather said' a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: high school schedule and the junior high schedule. And in reality, we're trying to find ways to open up scheduling time at CMS so that kids can start participating over here and start exploring opportunities here and getting their hands in their little fingers wet.
TEXT> In addition to another this is also mentioned is I think it was that gentleman right there was saying, why aren't we integrating academics and in with these technical programs? That too was brought forth by Doctor Herzog as he was working on Doctor Berry at the time, to  start a tech English course, which would do exactly that, to teach kids how to read technical manuals and give them dual credit. Not sure what what happened with that. So there is there is not a resistance from this board to provide kids in this community with tech opportunity. It's how are we going to do it the best way, get the biggest bang for the buck? And quite frankly, if we get kids to really get turned on to this bridge to college program, I really want folks to look at this. There's diesel electric electronics, Honda automotive technology, HVAC, industrial maintenance, Mercury marine manufacturing and marine technology, manufacturing engineering technology, machine tool technology, welding, wastewater. And you can have these courses paid for by the New Hampshire Governor's Technical Scholarship, which means that and it does not require there to be an economic need. So each kid can get  two, I think three credit, two three credit courses paid for by the state, no cost to the parents to give them dual technical experience and a college credit.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I mean, to me this is a no brainer. We already pay for that for that building to exist. So our state tax dollars supports the River Valley Technical College.

[R12151-135] Josh | Public commenter, Ward 3 (first name only on the record) | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, nobody nobody can hear you from where you are. I want to make a while. You're coming. Approaching the podium, I miscalculated. I forgot to include machine tool. So there actually were eight programs here in 1993. Eight program.
TEXT> I thank you for for that explanation.  One thing that's a bit confusing, and maybe you could speak a bit more, is  in order to get students into something, say like the bridge program, wouldn't we mont to have more guidance counselors and to to sort of do the coordination between the programs? Wouldn't we need to increase the administration and sort of say like the director position? Could you explain sort of like how those decisions are in line with the sort of integration that you were just explaining because they seem on the.
NEXT> Unidentified: Face may want us to.

[R12151-139] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - voice clustered with the business a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Unidentified: So there's.
TEXT> There are several,  several pieces that everyone has said and I think very eloquently as well,  particularly revisiting the visioning, looking where we're going, not throwing out the history of things.  But one of the things that that  we've, that I will own and also I think,  a, a place that we can step up through, through Stephen's high school, of which,  you know,  the tech center is a is a part of that under that umbrella is we have an amazing history with the community college and kids being very successful going through that. We've always had that. We've always had a lot of graduates here going on to very fruitful lives and participating in the community. No one's trying to stop that. What we're trying to do through a  variety of ways in the strategic plan, particularly in combining the  the schedules and looking at total access for students, every student has a penchant for something, whether they know it yet or not, and that's upon us as educators and leaders to to help them find that path.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think we do that very well. I think we can do it a lot better. Some of the obstacles to that are, have already been spoken about. So one

[R12151-141] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - voice clustered with the business a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I think and the board will certainly speak for themselves, but we started talking about electives and filling up schedules and programs of study and a school profile and being competitive around we want to make sure that we have something for everyone in there.
TEXT> I certainly think we do.  Can we communicate that a lot better? We can. And we're going to,  I have to be honest, the success that Newport has had, and I think it's a variety of reasons for that part of those are very practical reasons of  the being in one building. Some of them are geography. Some of them are are other types of programs that have caught on. Some programs there have come and gone as well. The transportation piece even going up the street for,  for things even from Stevens, some students, we've we've struggled with getting students  here all the time.  So those are the things that we that we can work on and we need to continue to work on. So but there has to be,  and I think we're on the path to that,  particularly with all guidance counselors, not have all guidance counselors being able to refer  students to the programs. All of our guidance counselors know about the programs, and they do a good job completely with all the students. And I don't want to give the impression that there has to be one select guidance counselor to to do that and things like that, but,  but that's that's what we're currently working on and that's what we're going to be working on over the next, next  few months as well. Make that go. So, I don't know. I look forward to continue talks about about everything and expanding the programs. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: One of the first things that.

[R12151-219] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Steve' at [393] and [503]) | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, we're back in regular session, and, we have a single agenda item, which is the, Claremont fiscal year 23 school budget. And, any comments from board members in regard to that? Steve.
TEXT> I just want. To. Publicly reiterate that I understand the concerns of the community and our decisions that we make here. I also want to take a second to remind them that we're here more often than them. At times, we don't hear about things until there's an uproar and there's a misunderstanding. We do our best with very limited abilities to do so. As a board member, we don't make individual hiring in other staffing decisions. We have to navigate with our hands essentially tied in. Feel the wrath. The one person that we have control over is the superintendent in there. From there, he picks his team. We have made a vote of confidence as a board, along with unity, that we feel that Mike is doing the job, that we've asked them why we have to make tough decisions when it comes to the money piece. This board sees a much brighter future for this district. I like to think of it as at times we're on silty ground and trying to work on our foundation.  For this community, being that I have children in the district. It does make a difference in every decision I make. It also makes a difference. Looking back when I was in school 22 years ago, attending this facility. So with that said, I'm okay with moving forward with the budget as we've presented to go to the parks marriage.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other comments, like.

[R12180-18] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Herzog and miss from from Newport. There's a lot of things that we share, and some of those are reasons for success. They put on a presentation. Talk about the offerings. And we've had the same offerings for for a while. They come and go.
TEXT> What I learned  so far.  Okay. Talking to other,  talking to  Jeff Beard and, and others about different  CTE programs as they vary greatly  in the region. And,  there's a lot of differences  with them just. All right. So in general, what we're trying to do in order to max out.  With, with the schedules, what we're hoping to do and what we see, and as particularly as we copy some of Newport successes,  is to have eighth grade feeder have a have more intentionality  of the program of studies. And by that I mean you can have required classes. You can you can have different,  different requirements, more access for courses. You can align them differently that all blend together to,  to guide students into pathways and tracks in. What we're looking to do is do that more purposefully and with more  intentionality.  So,  combined campuses okay, or shared staff. So you could have middle school teachers and I'll demonstrate a sample schedule that we have. We have a standing middle school scheduling committee. We have other folks in the high school as well, who are are  interested in participating in a scheduling committee.  You have a lot of things gained when you share staff. So, for example, what we looked at the past couple of years, if you had an algebra one, which is a  really a gateway course in high school in math and  Steam instruction.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We may be able to have the the in the perfect world, you have algebra one in the eighth grade. That's the same as in high school. You might be

[R12180-21] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with advanced math. And students were on the college campus. And we've been talking to the community college to expand that, to work hand in hand with some of the other Steam initiatives and also some of the, courses here at the at the tech.
TEXT> The next slide that I have is the we talked about the  administrative,  overhead as well in all the class. So, the reductions that we had here, I also put out, put out that I wanted to put  some of the numbers there of, of what the rationale was at the time when we  met with the  budget subcommittee and when we looked at things, and  the summary was to go ahead with the proposed reduction, he including the  the director position to part time to cut the vacant nurse position,  the point six guidance position in the accounting, the vacant guidance, excuse me accounting position as well and focus on  to build capacity with the schedules and focus on steam, health, science related CTE and things that meld with  the community college.  So it's no,  and those are some of the numbers to be in more  aligned near the 12%  average of of  the expense of the program.  This is a close up of that student schedule, and this is what we're  trying to do. Started early and it actually goes from the right to the left.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's a little bit backwards. But you can see that in the Claremont Middle School, the advanced math class all the way through. It's a student who had a lot

[R12180-22] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to be in more aligned near the 12% average of of the expense of the program. This is a close up of that student schedule, and this is what we're trying to do. Started early and it actually goes from the right to the left.
TEXT> It's a little bit backwards.  But you can see that in the Claremont Middle School, the advanced math class all the way through.  It's a student who had a lot of success. And, by her own admission, and she, she has agreed to come out and  again meet with students and  what we really and it when you get to know her is she really,  really did an amazing job. Balancing time balance,  balancing all the demands was also a  an athlete as well and got it all done. So it is possible we had a few other. We have. That's the that's the richest transcript I've seen in terms of success. But there are other students who've gotten many credits as well. So and then these are some of the programs that we that we talked about as well. And this will all be posted online at the at the community college. I think we alluded to that last, last meeting that there's a lot of,  a lot of opportunity there as well. So this is something to I wanted to put this slide in there that not many people know about. And again, it is on us to put the word out there more.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But when you look at the Advanced Placement scores and things like that, where you're those who don't know, Advanced Placement scores are graded on a one through five scale

[R12180-25] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Six of them. You see, if you follow the color codes and you see the 90s, that's where we're hoping to expand on in between when you schedule in between those blocks and you still have those text center classes would actually have more time.
TEXT> And what we're hoping to do in the afternoon with the fixed block, again, this framework is there. It still has to be massaged through scheduling committees and  with the folks, and look at how they can have the other  courses as well. But this would allow that you can split in that last 90 degree block particularly. I know that  at a speak just a little bit of  of the folks at the, at the middle school  where they have, you know,   project lead the way type of, of design, build courses and things like that. And we have some nice  new things that we're collaborating on with this, with the steam group that basically if we could get even if we know that, we wouldn't have an  eighth grader coming over. But if we work with  Newport and we align with the middle school, we might be able to have sample electives and try out classes here that are that are light. Where a student comes in, gets fired up about what's to offer here. They're already doing all kinds of hands on activities in,  in the, in the middle school, and it's all you come here and you see kind of the big leagues and the other types of things. It's a, it's a natural progression that we're hoping to max out.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's it's, you know, it's the oldest trick in the book, right. Just having a feeder coming in, wanting to aspire all the way up and having some other peers

[R12180-32] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: guidance position, same thing we were hoping to, to again to to try to get the word out, have more, build more bridges in the community with the CTE, nurse position. Excuse me? Yeah. Guidance position. But that also was a split position in unity.
TEXT> The  with just not to get into the throes of all of it. That person is now in unity full time. And we we didn't think that we needed that here. The accounting position  last year  some of those courses  were reduced or within the  program of study, particularly the the feeder courses, the introductory courses, the numbers of the accounting one and the accounting two of the net. I believe there were only about 7 or 8 courses potential  students. And then when the with the actual enrollment and again I'm just going from last year I think it was only about six and  those did not run. Some of those were absorbed because there was career college readiness courses that were taught also in the business. Some of them were personal finances,  and most of those were absorbed by the other elective teacher at the high school. So that that's that's, you know, there we did lose the accounting program all the way through in the net of that.  There's also,  it you know, that that is one of the five that we had. We're down to four and we're looking to see  what we could can put back. We're looking to hopefully have the numbers  go up as well with, with the schedule change.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's it. On the overhead side, there's four teachers here. The administrative overhead of the front offices is obviously when you just divide by how many are in the

[R12180-33] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: also, it you know, that that is one of the five that we had. We're down to four and we're looking to see what we could can put back. We're looking to hopefully have the numbers go up as well with, with the schedule change.
TEXT> So that's it. On the overhead side,  there's four teachers here.  The administrative overhead of the front offices is obviously when you just divide by how many are in the school, obviously it's a smaller program. It is going to be higher per ratio than in a full fledged  desired or  Stevens High School where you have hundreds of students, you know,  you know, and you divide all of the overhead and it's more comprehensive. That, that is that is  how we came up with those numbers.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Could you just I'm just wanted to clarify some questions that I got from the public related to, there was concern that the reduction of the guidance position, my understanding

[R12180-34] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: per ratio than in a full fledged desired or Stevens High School where you have hundreds of students, you know, you know, and you divide all of the overhead and it's more comprehensive. That, that is that is how we came up with those numbers.
TEXT> Could you just I'm just wanted to clarify some questions that I got from the public related to,  there was concern that the reduction of the guidance position, my understanding was, is that that was an attempt to make bridges and to get more students over. There was an identifier.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it was pretty successful. It was an it was an extra I, I get it. But she did a good job with that.

[R12180-36] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And it was pretty successful. It was an it was an extra I, I get it. But she did a good job with that.
TEXT> Yeah. My understanding and correct me if I'm, if I'm wrong is that we had some deficits in our current guidance. We have deficits in our current guidance counselor kind of matrix. Would  not really understanding how to target students, how to  encourage students to come over to the tech and know.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I hear.

[R12180-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Did it change the numbers?
TEXT> I'm not. Not in a year or so, but yeah, but it's yeah, I mean it's a drop off. But in the overall picture of it, I think our there's other structures I think that will net more with the schedule change when you actually have have an elective. We'll that's part of the middle school section. So every kid has to take a trial of these in, in the, in the spring. That's that's the Newport model. That's what we're looking at, stuff like that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And am I correct that going to this new schedule, which is this is also my understanding, is actually going to cost a little bit more to go to this

[R12180-62] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: yeah, I don't I don't want to get ahead in. But in terms of what we would do with this, with the committee all the way through, we have to cost and have ready for the what that adoption would look like the following year.
TEXT> We could get components of it. I do think that there's, and we'll see how that goes.  I don't want to get ahead of myself with that.  But we have to have the budget all the way through on the conversion of what we would need for FTEs. We do have cares, money that we can use for credit. That that will at the same time where we're trying to make some classes,  smaller. So kids are  have other gains. We have to be careful not to mingle that so that after that money goes away, we have enough staffing all the way through. But,  we have enough that we can get that started. We're also going to have  some other positions  in future meetings that we're looking to do for some of the curriculum help and alignment, and particularly with  mass science and, and English and the core. So that is going to be coming at a  meeting, maybe next meeting, you know,  but but certainly  coming up with that, we want to get those posted and going. So that's I've not got to promise like a schedule of the program right now, but we're going to that's our timeline. So we'll have it all budgeted and proposed for the next calendar year. If we can have aspects of it for the fall, we would. So. Questions.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Yep.

[R12180-65] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: ten slide, this gets kind of bantered around to that there's a barrier being in the region ten agreement. Because according to this slide it says each center must offer unique programs or has state approval. Yeah. And I've heard that that's not the case.
TEXT> Well, so when we when we had discussions about the region ten  they're there are they don't want duplication in zones and they don't they.  But there also is some, some ways you can expand that. One of the one, one thing in particular that I want to  that I've talked to Newport about, I talked  to Alex about and I've also talked to,  to Pat in to Charlie, who has been instrumental in doing the master schedule. Is all of the seats captured right in the existing region ten agreement. We get six, Newport get six sunup, he gets three and we rarely have the summit be kids make it this way. So it's more advantageous to Newport because they're there,  you know, in between the two communities. So those are something that I want to look at. And usually there's a I think it's a June 1st or second deadline where if there's any openings you can put your kids into.  But some of the courses, particularly the introductory courses, there are some that are absolutely you need the the low numbers, the machinery is dangerous.  Scott Scott bulbs classes. It is a machine like atmosphere.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Shop kids ramp up to that that safety level. Some of the other ones, we might have a little bit more latitude. This is something we have to discuss with

[R12180-81] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: The daycare program.
TEXT> It was yeah, but but you're correct. But  in  the program,  exited but the but the child piece  state and also in it's going to perfect segue into our next section talking about that  how how that is evolved  the program.  But that that's one thing. The other thing, I was that the whole part of it just that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, just that we've had it. I've got it in writing that it's an issue.

[R12180-87] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Issue I want.
TEXT> To make sure the other encroachment part that I know of from the history, from the very beginning of it, I believe they upstairs, upstairs was a life skills program that was designed as part of that. And I think  a mr. Pope was here from, from, from the day the Oracle himself  can speak. I think upon the upon the  completion of it, there was a life skills program so that that happened. You can use it. It's supposed to be used for, for CTE. I think to everyone's point in the  some of the gray in there, in the evolvement of that to and also to speak to the overall, there's a  declining enrollment in, in a  student population in general, too, that had something to do with what you talked about. Mr.. But the other, the the other the other piece is,  if you only have six students who who can if you have  a section one and a section two in a block schedule of our criminal Akram, people who, who, who go all the way through  the feeders and everything in our and end up in, in the, the plumbing or in the machine tool classes.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can only net six of our kids right now per a strict interpretation of the region. Ten I don't know when the last time as we had a full

[R12180-92] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Josh: So can you tell me sort of what the student outcomes you expect to see? Sure. That would benefit by eliminating the nurse and the guidance counselor.
TEXT> So  thank you. Yeah. Okay. So in terms of the  the achievement outcomes, I think that's more that what we're what we were  talking about through the through the coursework in terms of the number of incidents and things like that and the dangerousness of the events that we've had.  I do believe and I don't know how far back this goes, but I think there was a standing agreement at least six, six, eight years for a stipend to have the nurse cover over here, bring all the equipment over here. The flow of students through,  the the classes, you know, given about 12, there's there's usually only 50  students max over here at a time, anyway, of which the load next door is, is about 300  in. They they are covered.  We haven't had many significant injuries, frankly, based on the supervision and expertise of our of our staff. So that that, that on that safety.  I'm not as worried about the outcomes. What I spoke about before in terms of safety. Okay. That's that's
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In terms of the guidance counselors, the a lot of the guidance work and outreach was to to the community, to other programs. But it wasn't. And what what I'm

[R12180-104] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Josh: Did it happen. What was.
TEXT> The where you were hoping to get a little bit more information on that?  And then we're also  going to be investing funds on technical assistance to help plan the plan, the improvement of our career exploration and awareness activities, and our guidance system that assists students in making informed and career technical education system. So we're going to get funds to do that. And that's part of this plan.  I mean, there's numerous areas where we're  contracting with consultants for technical assistance. We're actually going to be contracting with consultants  to help develop the processes for teachers to evaluate existing performance data, consultants to also coach teachers how to perform the evaluation of their incoming classes, and facilitate collaboration with special educators to develop and implement strategies likely to narrow those performance gaps. There's multiple areas where we're going to be hiring experts and consultants to help guide us through that process.
NEXT> Josh: Thank you.

[R12180-111] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, Ward 2 (realtor; name not stated) | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: On.
TEXT> The web. That would be wonderful. Yeah, that would be wonderful. So,  so it sounds to me like you're working on this because if felt like, why were we going back from 7 or 8 classes to just a few, but it's working back the other way, is what you're saying. Yes. You are filling it up. And so. If then the director of the school here, if it's getting filled up, why is he being cut back? If we're going to need them more, there's going to be more kids in here. Well, it just doesn't make any sense. You're filling it up. Are you taking your director away to half time? So it just. Gets any answer to that?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes. Do anybody else want to go for.

[R12180-115] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter, Ward 2 (realtor; name not stated) | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: our students. So it's a one year budget. And currently the way it's set up and based off of what's taking the time, we don't have the ability to utilize a full time position. When you have Newport with eight courses in US with four.
TEXT> All right.  Could you could you explain you said something about background checks for tech students so I, we could barely hear you back there.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Just to clarify, to be a teacher and hired by the district, you have to go through a background check to be able to pass it. And what I'm saying

[R12180-121] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: at River Valley? So I think it's and personally, for me, even if we expanded the technical program to the point where we would need more administrative supports, I would like to see an operational assistant being plugged in to kind of backfill there instead.
TEXT> I think those positions should absolutely be married, and in reality, we could develop programs  for high school students that could be used in part for the adult education program, too. If you tweak them a little bit and we could share teachers. And I mean, I think they're really well aligned. And for me,  moving forward, I think we should make those connections and keep those connections and backfill support behind.
NEXT> Unidentified: You were talking about the.

[R12180-137] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Ask.
TEXT> Mr. Nestor as well. I kick this off. They have the timeline. And as my daughters like to say, the deets. Okay. But the and from a budget from a budget perspective  what we're looking at. And I just tried to summarize this and I put the numbers out sent this  to the board. We had a robust discussion about this earlier. Actually late last week.  And you can see if you can't, can't see that, you can see kind of the, the current, numbers of kids that we have right now. We have  63 total students. And what we projected was and I'll just kind of cut to the chase on the summary like the other like the other side.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Excuse me, I'm just.

[R12180-149] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay.
TEXT> 1415. Prior to that, pre-K preschool was a based in the schools. And it was a self-contained special ed program model, which was very common at the time. And then 1415 the New Hampshire Department of Ed, you know, looked at some of the data that were required to present to, to them yearly. It's the palms date as the preschool outcome measurement system that we have to report. It's a state mechanism for collecting data and making sure people are doing what they're doing. They didn't like what they saw.  So  the district partnered with the New Hampshire DOH and implemented a, you know, a five year,  systemic that should say systemic improvement plan. And so it was a 2014 to 2019 plan. So 1516 was a big planning year. Those that were around remember, that was under a Doctor  Goodwin's tenure. And then 1617, the pre-K was relocated to the tech center where it's housed. That was right around the same time the early childhood program was defunct,  and moved out of the tech center. It was a perfect spot because it was set up for little kids, you know,  then 17 through 19,  was really the big implementation year.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Pre-K got very big very quickly. There were three teachers, three classrooms. There was a pre-K director, Diane Edwards. At the time. There was a pre there was a special

[R12180-155] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: yeah. So ultimately that's our recommendation is to stick with what we have and let's move forward with the, you know, the early childhood model as supported by the budget that I think we're all agreeable to. So happy to take questions now or later.
TEXT> So we're talking and I get kids or kids and their it's more complex than just numbers. When we look at when we look at purely numbers of the numbers I found, and I'm not sure they're accurate or not, should be that the max is 12 students per class. That's the based on the decision. Hampshire.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, that's the New Hampshire rules. One teacher, one pair of 12 kids, something like that. Yeah.

[R12180-156] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: more complex than just numbers. When we look at when we look at purely numbers of the numbers I found, and I'm not sure they're accurate or not, should be that the max is 12 students per class. That's the based on the decision. Hampshire.
TEXT> Yeah, that's the New Hampshire rules. One teacher, one pair of 12 kids, something like that. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So going to three classrooms, two sessions per day, your max would be 72.

[R12180-158] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: So going to three classrooms, two sessions per day, your max would be 72.
TEXT> Just about. Yeah. If we were at like ten and a half kids per session. Again, the math, like you said, sound like that, right. It's always a little bit, you know.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. I just want to throw in a clarifying point to follow up to Mike. So how many kids are in the preschool at any given time? Half correct.

[R12180-159] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: Just about. Yeah. If we were at like ten and a half kids per session. Again, the math, like you said, sound like that, right. It's always a little bit, you know.
TEXT> Yeah. I just want to throw in a clarifying point to follow up to Mike. So how many kids are in the preschool at any given time? Half correct.
NEXT> Paige: Yes.

[R12180-179] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So these are district wide employees. Yes. So. So I'm sorry I'm hugging all the questions.
TEXT> My last one.  Do you have any students that  that do the full day or they're all they're all the half.
NEXT> Paige: Day we do a half day in the morning and a half day in the half.

[R12180-186] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: I mean, don't disagree with me on air.
TEXT> So do we push? Do we have do we have students that we're providing services to in other facilities other than this facility?
NEXT> Paige: Yes we do. We have an MOU with Head Start. So, head start and it all depends on the child. We look at the child and we look at their

[R12180-193] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. I'm pushing because I want to draw a clean line between the preschool employees and district wide employees. That's why I'm probing that way.
TEXT> The my understanding is that in the preschool program is great, but my understanding is what the actual requirement is providing services to kids that are identified as special ed. We we as a district do not have to run a pre-K program. We can push out to do all those services if, if.
NEXT> Paige: So, from a legal standpoint, yes. But from a professional standpoint, I would say that that is absolutely a hard no. We shouldn't.

[R12180-199] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah, pre-K program, right, where kids come to you and get more than just the yeah.
NEXT> Ben Nester: We're a kid with, you know, significant emotional behavior challenges. You know, those are the kids that we would serve, you know, here on site.

[R12180-205] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: our community because the property tax is not a progressive tax. So the person that gets hurt the most with that, with increase in local property tax, is a 78 year old widow on a fixed income who is barely paying for her medications already.
TEXT> That's one piece. The second piece is is we never know what the state's really going to give to us, what the federal government is going to give to us, and, and, and budget cycle after budget cycle, we either have to compensate by increasing our budget, and very rarely do we get to make budget cuts. Another big piece of this is that,  to increase employees wages. And currently I personally feel that our employees in this district are still underpaid, even though we have given every single collective bargaining group an increase in to do our best to help make us competitive with the challenging student population that we have, we need to be more than competitive to attract  teachers and to keep them here. To increase those wages. We have to ask the public to pay for it. That means the local taxpayers have to say yes to the warrant article. If we abuse our taxpayers, or if we show our taxpayers that we are not being extraordinarily prudent with our dollars, they're not going to be too happy about saying yes to that warrant article. We have to demonstrate to the public that we are good stewards of their money in every, in every way possible, and that if we ask for more funds, there's a reason behind it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And to Mike patron has mentioned this many, many times is that we have to be very careful that we run this like, like a business, meaning that we produce

[R12180-206] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: to be too happy about saying yes to that warrant article. We have to demonstrate to the public that we are good stewards of their money in every, in every way possible, and that if we ask for more funds, there's a reason behind it.
TEXT> And to Mike patron has mentioned this many, many times is that we have to be very careful that we run this like, like a business, meaning that we produce the best product, which is a well-educated child with utilizing our human resources and our financial resources to the best of our ability. And  so it's really a community effort. And, I mean, we do have to think about our taxpayers and how they and how they see us and respect them. And when we ask they if they respected, they say, yes. And we also have to have flex in our budget so that we don't whack the local taxpayers. When we lose funding from the state and federal government. Recently, we've been, I think over the last four years, we've had a reduction of $200,000 a year that was taken away by the state that we had to compensate for. So in order to compensate, you're going to have to cut programs. But if we build flex into our budget so that we're not like strangle holding our our taxpayers who are are  now currently paying the highest local property tax in the state already. So to to that question, when it seems like we're being draconian, when we're really, you know, kind of tweaking the budget here and there, we're really trying to make as painless a slight savings as possible, utilizing our resources in the best way possible.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So when we get those hits, we can kind of flex and not really thump our taxpayers and not have to cut programs and services that kids are relying on

[R12180-207] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: So to to that question, when it seems like we're being draconian, when we're really, you know, kind of tweaking the budget here and there, we're really trying to make as painless a slight savings as possible, utilizing our resources in the best way possible.
TEXT> So when we get those hits, we can kind of flex and  not really thump our taxpayers and not have to cut programs and services that kids are relying on in order to invent those high, those tax hikes. So I think that's just a good perspective for people to have.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Comments from the book. Okay.

[R12180-213] Jen Gallagher | Public commenter, Ward 2 (first says ward one, corrected to two; presc | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other comments before we move on asking for your name and word please.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Jen Gallagher, I'm in ward one. I think that's this ward, right? I live in Ward. Two, two two. Thanks, Rob. I'm new. Sorry. Yes. Thank you.  My question is,  if we are reverting back to this model with reduction of one teacher and one classroom,  are we not then anticipating greater need from students further down the line? Like, if we support them when they're younger, they tend to have better educational outcomes. That's evidence based.  So what are we doing to support our most vulnerable children? There are our greatest asset and our biggest. You know what we should be investing in? What we should be spending our money on. So  why are we cutting a classroom from the little guys?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I can take it. And I love the they have Page and Principal Lewis there too. But so I believe and if I go back and I can't see you

[R12180-216] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: So.
TEXT> So the, I believe our class size is going to  I think we're going to increase. Remember those one half sections, I believe,  it's only 2 or 3 students for class on average for what we have. The most important part that that  page was talking about is a typical model,  in preserving that, that that's that's how we look at it. Our hope. Okay. And I'm getting ahead of this, too, but I, I know it was spoken. Our hope is that,  in our plan with the restructuring that we still have to present again, we have to do a lot of work, we have to do some community work with that. And all of that is that we actually take the center that's here and actually are able to put that in a regular elementary school with full specials, with a full playground, with everything about it  being  back to the future  principal. We had it there.  There wasn't enough space in. That's what we're hoping to put in. So more students  access that. For right now, we think that this this can be sustainable with those numbers and it's not that impactful. It's a whole different ball game. If it were a, you know, a substantially separate model where it no, we're not really a advocating for that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So thank you.

[R12180-230] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (attribution medium - cluster follows th | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Steve. Josh I'm sorry. Let Josh. Josh hasn't spoken tonight.
TEXT> So it may be beneficial to kind of explain that 5050. Well, I don't know. I guess just separate from everything else just for the public's benefits. They understand where that waiting list is coming from and that it's my understanding it's not affecting special education students. Correct? Correct. Correct. Correct. So yeah. So I don't know. Okay okay.
NEXT> Josh: Just a question about the waitlist. Can you say how big is the waitlist. And and what are the decisions like if it, if it got substantially larger, would we

[R12180-234] Paige | Pre-K Coordinator, Claremont School District (first name only on the r | 2022-02-02
PREV> Nicholas Stone: To the. Sure.
TEXT> Currently right now the waitlist is small. And the current waitlist. The reason why I have a wait list at all is because my staff, I am. I currently have six open positions for paraprofessionals. Please come my way. I will take you.  So I can't I can't safely put more kids in classrooms if I don't have the staff to run them. So our based on the number of staff I have, I am full.
NEXT> Jen Gallagher: Speaking. Again of collaboration, are there any ways that we can partner with, like the high school students or kids that are interested in, like the early childhood education? Those

[R12180-235] Jen Gallagher | Public commenter, Ward 2 (first says ward one, corrected to two; presc | 2022-02-02
PREV> Paige: open positions for paraprofessionals. Please come my way. I will take you. So I can't I can't safely put more kids in classrooms if I don't have the staff to run them. So our based on the number of staff I have, I am full.
TEXT> Speaking. Again of collaboration,  are there any ways that we can partner with, like the high school students or kids that are interested in, like the early childhood education? Those are real jobs in our community. You can have them in your classroom as volunteers, right? Can we increase that?
NEXT> Unidentified: Maybe if they have that.

[R12180-247] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Paige: I think that just to the board's point, if we take away, we are taking away we we aren't currently full in our positions, but that is currently when we take this classroom away, is taking away 24, potentially 24 spots.
TEXT> So just to clarify Josh's point, if I could, the waitlist is for the neurotypical kids. There is no waitlist for kids that are identified as special ed or special needs. So the 5050 model you would have if you have 20 special ed kids, you would have 20 typically developing kids as well.  And you try it's hard. It's going to be hard to maintain that balance because there's like what it looks like by the numbers right now  is you may have a couple more typically developing kids than you do special ed right now, based on the numbers. But that's the that's the juggling that has to go on, I guess.
NEXT> Paige: And, and I just want to back up to what Mike's saying. I think that all of our kids have special needs when they come to us, every single child

[R12180-282] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. Yeah. Now, the one this discrepancy that I really see that sticks out like a sore thumb to me is the number of registered students is also declined by 39. So really, if we were to compare percentages apples to apples, that percentage would be much lower if we added in those 39 students if drop at a percentage or  so. Correct.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They were they were tracking. If you look.

[R12180-285] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: That's.
TEXT> The number of registered students. So I mean I'm seeing  a a withdrawal of students by 39. Yes, I get that. It's going to change those numbers so that the discrepancy is still a wide discrepancy. But if you're looking comparing apples to apples, it's 52 out of five, 49 if we're going back to September because that.
NEXT> Unidentified: None of those students. No.

[R12180-290] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the chair, roll-call vote answers and oth | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: I'm just going off the total number of.
TEXT> Registered is if we were 500 and. 49. Students, none of those other 39 would have Covid. It's a fallacy.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I know what I'm saying.

[R12180-293] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: Percentage.
TEXT> What I'm going off is, is that okay? So we've had a what's sticking out to me like a sore thumb is that we've had a decrease of 39 students in a four month span, and that's concerning to me.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: The number of cases don't.

[R12180-297] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: No.
TEXT> How do we how do is our registered student number drop 39 students in a short period?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can look at that and we can look at that historically. Historically I do know that there is a fluctuation at Stevens traditionally, every year pre-COVID that they start

[R12180-301] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other thoughts. All right. For the for further comments discussion. All right.
TEXT> I just have one concern.  What I don't think is reflective here, and I don't know if we can get this data.  To me, it's one of the most important one of the reasons we're collecting it is to kind of figure out how many days of learning we've lost in total. And I and I don't think this really reflects how many days lost we've had, just the percentage. And so that kind of is unnerving to me, is that, you know, if 22 students are out for ten days, that's 220 days of learning lost.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. No.

[R12180-307] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: at this point in time, I, I think we hold the course. But I do think that we begin the conversation for life in the endemic. But as I said, I don't believe we're there yet. So that's my my thoughts on this. Other comments.
TEXT> Just said we don't really know what the impact has been on learning. And so for me, a big driver will be is that, you know, I kind of feel and I'm maybe wrong about this, but, we've been protecting adults at the cost of children. And,
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And doctor, as I said, Doctor Chan addressed that directly today. So we have heard you. Yeah. And they're working. They are working around those protocols for that sensitivity. And

[R12180-309] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: They are working around those protocols for that sensitivity. And I suggest that, you know, next Wednesday, Mr. Tempesta, that you tell Doctor Chan or whoever you're talking to, that my board is very concerned and really want to see a transition to endemic planning.
TEXT> So I'm not in on most of the doctor Chan calls. That's that's Ronnie and the nursing staff. Would we meet every other Wednesday with Doctor Who and,  and with the Fall Mountain folks and with our nursing teams. And the only thing that I can relate kind of, you know, and I just want to put it out there, there's still a lot we don't know. Right. And I'm not I'm not trying to be Debbie Downer or. But we know that there's, there's kids in in other in in our district in other districts who have who have gotten us multiple times, you know, and, and you see staff members getting there's we just.
NEXT> Unidentified: Don't.

[R12180-311] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: Don't.
TEXT> Know enough yet. So I, I, you know, I, I do think and, and I can't praise our staff enough for the job that they're doing, and we're not overdoing it. We're not unusual. Kids are outside without mascots, masks. Kids are coming in. They're being monitored, but they're still being kids. They're socialized and they're out there, and it's. And it's working. And,  so but I do agree. We need to we need to look at it long term. We, kids are coming back on the sixth day on test it. Okay. Some other places are requiring tests where they can in different parts of the state, different parts of the country. We're not.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So how can we capture that data, though? I mean, I don't I don't think we can make decisions or really, we don't have the data to make informed decisions.

[R12180-312] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: need to we need to look at it long term. We, kids are coming back on the sixth day on test it. Okay. Some other places are requiring tests where they can in different parts of the state, different parts of the country. We're not.
TEXT> So how can we capture that data, though? I mean, I don't I don't think we can make decisions or really, we don't have the data to make informed decisions. We don't. And so until we can kind of parse out, you know, I was trying to gather from the information that you gave us, like, we don't know if what number of students have been helped. We know what number of students have been positive, but not what number of students have stayed home because they were exposed to a, you know. Household contact. And so, I mean, it can start you can have a kid that ends up having being out 20, 25 days and that's, you know, within a very short period of time, depending on what their household contacts are. And that's just catastrophic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Devastating set.

[R12180-314] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: Devastating set.
TEXT> And so,  and I don't know how you recoup I don't know how a kid recoup that, especially if they're in a, in a, in an environment where it's challenging to begin with. So,  I guess I want to push very hard to get that data so we can make informed decisions. And I don't personally have any problem like straying from the herd. So  it doesn't hurt my feelings at all to not do what doctor chances.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R12180-320] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: in the last three months. That's a lot of work to try to make up, to provide for a family financially. So knowing that that's a lot of work to provide financially, I could only imagine the loss for the people in their developmental years.
TEXT> The other I mean, we can collect data on students at this school. The other piece that,  as well as anybody who's doing this, Louis stepping in to teach class or anybody stepping into teaching. It's still not the science teacher. If the science teacher is out, it's still not the math teacher. So you're losing some there to where, you know, if Mr. Tempesta has to jump in and teach class.
NEXT> Unidentified: Physics.

[R12180-325] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: But I think that's why we keep building the summer programs. And getting more time on learning that way.
TEXT> So and again, as we, as we've talked at, I guess it was our last retreat about instruction and interventions within the instruction. What is the  key  things like that building that in? So we're really capturing kids before they get too far behind. So other comments, Josh. Public comments.
NEXT> Unidentified: Three. So I'm here to. Talk to you. Guys about, revisiting the masks in schools question. It's part of the protocols. Doctor Asha Jahan, I believe is how it's pronounced

[R12180-326] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter on masks (ward heard as 'Three'; name  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: as we've talked at, I guess it was our last retreat about instruction and interventions within the instruction. What is the key things like that building that in? So we're really capturing kids before they get too far behind. So other comments, Josh. Public comments.
TEXT> Three. So I'm here to. Talk to you. Guys about,  revisiting the masks in schools question. It's part of the protocols. Doctor Asha Jahan, I believe is how it's pronounced of the Mayo Clinic recently said we want to make sure that it is not a cloth mask. A cloth mask does not offer protection. We know Covid 19 is about the same size as influenza, roughly 0.1 microns. This is much too small to be blocked by typical masks. Even N95 respirators are rated based on larger 0.3 micron particles. And we know we also know the primary vehicle for transmission of Covid 19 is aerosol, which makes these mass generally fail, to which most of these masks generally fail to prevent. The virus travels in water vapor. We exhale around and through the masks and concentrates in the air indoors and poorly ventilated rooms. Many students were done. Many studies were done prior to Covid testing. Masks effectiveness against influenza. One meta analysis was done in 2020. In the UK, it compiled 21 studies from around the world conducted between 2004 and 2018. Looking for the truth. What they found was a comically low effectiveness of masks reporting, quote, a modest likelihood of a small effect of wearing surgical face masks in community settings, in reducing self-reported influenza like illness, unquote.
NEXT> Unidentified: A 2010 meta analysis from Cambridge University stemming from the 2009 H1n1 influenza pandemic, looked at 12 studies on masks and determined that none of the studies reviewed showed a

[R12180-327] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter on masks (ward heard as 'Three'; name  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: the world conducted between 2004 and 2018. Looking for the truth. What they found was a comically low effectiveness of masks reporting, quote, a modest likelihood of a small effect of wearing surgical face masks in community settings, in reducing self-reported influenza like illness, unquote.
TEXT> A 2010 meta analysis from Cambridge University stemming from the 2009 H1n1 influenza pandemic, looked at 12 studies on masks and determined that none of the studies reviewed showed a benefit from wearing a mask in health care workers, community members or in the household. There is little evidence to support the effectiveness of face masks to reduce the risk of infection, was their conclusion, it seems the studies reporting universal masking were largely, it seems the studies that support universal masking were largely constructed in 2020 to support mandates. Most were rushed, lack any kind of control group, and often compare infection rates between places during time frames that support the biased conclusions of their architects. They are hardly scientific. We also know Covid 19 is a less dangerous to is much less dangerous to children than influenza. A huge study that came from Germany just a few months ago found that not a single, healthy German child had died from Covid since the start of the pandemic. Masking kids all day in school isn't helping them socially or emotionally. A study came out just last week that showed Americans are the least happy they've been in 50 years. Covid related stresses are the main cause of a drastic shift towards unhappiness. Our endless Covid protocols, including masks, a factor in that. In conclusion, we know cloth and disposable masks that kids don't kids wear.
NEXT> Unidentified: Don't work to prevent the spread of Covid. And we know kids aren't at tangible risk if they contract Covid. Are we forcing kids to wear them because it makes

[R12204-19] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: the next one over being the budget that we're currently working in, which would be the budget that was approved last year. The third column over is the proposed budget any increase or decrease in a percentage for those that occur, percentage in both development.
TEXT> So on the debt service, what we're looking at here is a reduction in the debt service by $10,994. This is a result of pay down in principal this year, which results in a lower amount of interest being paid in the following year. For elementary wise special ed out of district.  There's a reduction here of $10,000. Last year we had 120,000 that was included in the budget for placing out of district our elementary students and for next year, working up the worksheet with this  $210,000 or a reduction of $10,000 now going through each one of the cost centers or each one of the buildings, the Bluff School, the senior reduction of $134,554. The primary reason for this is a reduction in a teaching position at that location, because of reduced number of kids in the class, Maple Avenue was seeing an increase of 75,072, and this is related to just contractual increases and changes in the cost of health insurance. And increase of 209. 409  I think it's most likely here that the position that was eliminated coming out of bluff was moved over to Disney.  So it's a geography movement as well as increasing costs related to contractual services and to the cost on benefits, Claremont Middle School is seeing an increase of 255,000. The bulk of this  increase is related to our district placements for our special need counts.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The way we work this out is that we know each one of the kiddos as of now, and what the likelihood of their own placement is and what the

[R12204-21] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: this. The first component is a currently vacant nurse position, is not being renewed and is not being included into next year's budget. Historically, that position has been covered by the Claremont Middle School last year and we had the position within the Tech Center.
TEXT> We budgeted it this year, but it's currently not built. So we're going to go back to covering the nurses from the Claremont Middle School. We're eliminating the 0.5 guidance counselor that is in the tax center. It was put in as an  item last year. It was included as a budgeted item this year. And the determination is that those guidance counselor responsibilities will be covered by the guidance counselors from Stevens High School. We eliminated the accounting position, which was is currently vacant at the  tech center, and that those classes would be covered by programs that are being offered at Stevens High School, as opposed to having the students go from Stevens High School up to the Tech Center. And the fourth is to reduce the director position by 50% to more accurately match up the level of overhead and administrative costs that we have in that budget, as compared to all of our other buildings. The next is district wide and now district wide, captured a number of our functions that operate across all of our gatherings. So, for example, transportation or  some of our maintenance positions, some of our special needs additions, behavioral positions that run across all buildings. But they're not specific to a geography or specific to a building. We're seeing a reduction there, $300,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The primary reason for that. There are certainly a couple of positions that have been that have been reduced there that we know of having to have discussed in the

[R12204-25] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: a range of different sources, is anticipated to be flat fund balance to reduce taxes, which is the surplus that we anticipate out of this year's budget, which will go to reduce taxes for next year, has been pretty consistently in the 400,000 level and
TEXT> anticipated that to be street  level going forward. So our local sources are at the net of the first one. The district assessment. We come down below,  we've got our state sources, and we're looking at adequate education grants increasing by $1 million. The state property tax, which is also something that we pay to ourselves, that we collect it from us and then we pay it over to school district is down by 384,000. And at the end at the  state property tax would decrease from $1.85 to $1.23. Catastrophic aid is, wouldn't be half a kiddo who's a special needs kiddo. We have to pay up a certain amount of dollars once it goes above three times the average student cost, we get a reimbursement from the state, and it goes about ten times the average student cost.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We get more money back from the state. So this is in effect a protection on the very costly of our of our special needs kids. And we're anticipating that

[R12204-32] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain - not named on this segment; answers  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Candace Crawford: 34% of our graduates planned to enter the workforce without further education. If one third of our graduates do not go on to higher education, why aren't we doing everything we can to promote and grow the programs at the technical high school? Two questions.
TEXT> That will be starting  in the next few weeks. Looking at how we can look to the future of what we could have in the tech center. I think our biggest problem with the tech center and the other things that we're looking at is the region ten agreement and also kind of scheduling and just trying to get more kids in to take those courses. So that's what we're focused on. So, and in terms of the quality of. In terms of the default budget. I think Mr. Stevens talked to that better.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Well, thanks, pandemic and everyone. It's not that they aren't working. It's not that there isn't a feeling, I think, amongst the board, amongst the administration that these statistics which

[R12204-34] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: that we have a lot of faith in this changing, changing the schedules and in terms of in the next two years, and specifically for other Mondays that are outside the budget, the CARES funds are going to allow us to put in more teachers.
TEXT> We've already been spending it on student tutoring,  summer programs of extra help, types of programs, and that's why you don't see a portion of those monies. Now we have a lot of money  where we can use that money for the next few years, for the. Help our teachers. To get extra tutoring. To start. Looking. At. Changing our schedule, to be hiring more teachers at the high school. Reducing the class size. And reducing the class size. So we're. Just we just. Don't need to get them on taxpayers. This year.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: This is do you have an auto up? I do in terms of transparency, I'm sorry, but we have to make.

[R12204-75] Unidentified | Unidentified - tech center teacher answering questions on CTE director | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: And what are you two?
TEXT> That's that's more of an opinion. But I think the numbers show, you know, it's been various over the, over the years. Some years it grows, some years it doesn't  it does go relative down. Any programs you have in the building. To be honest, when we had, I think 7 or 8 programs, we had more students there and the programs have been dropped. We've had less opportunity for students to be there. And that's just the the Elk Grove old thing. You have less programs, you have less potential students. So great. For growth in different programs. Do you have to go? Year by year, you also have to look at the numbers of students available in the schools. But I mean, that's just the plain math. That's not given an opinion of how the directorship is either made things work or not.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So thank you. Mr.. Just someone. Yes. Would you like to speak? And then this has been my I, I just have a question. Is that a right. Yes.

[R12204-87] Derek Bergman | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Derek Bergman, Ward three' [196], ' | 2022-02-09
PREV> Derek Bergman: fundamental question of how many programs should we have and who's going to do the work. That's not going to happen magically. And if you cut it back to match a current state, that is less than what we think the future state should be.
TEXT> There's going to be a lot of work that's not going to get done. So I  support of this amendment because I think the position should be restored to full time. Furthermore, I would also advocate for restoration of the  to the guidance position. I think with the addition of the skiing program in the middle school, there is a great opportunity to help build those bridges for the middle school students, increase their awareness of the opportunities in tech programing and that over time will help grow the enrollment that's there's more work than than just one person can do. And this isn't really just about the one person. This is about the system. This is about the infrastructure. This is about providing the  necessary, necessary support and resources to do what this community needs that tech center to do. And it's much more than what it's doing today. So I think this current budget is short sighted. I think the amendment is a step in the right direction. I think there's been ample feedback from the community stating as such, and thus far the response has been less than satisfactory. So  if we acknowledge that the future state needs to be better than what it is today, I think the Vision Committee is a step in the right direction. Let's get the community involvement, figure out what the number of programs is, and provide the support to the director position to make it happen. Thanks.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Thank you for being here tonight. My name is born and Miles, and I'm on Ward two and. You stop and think about this. This is really embarrassing that here

[R12204-98] David | Public commenter (ASR 'Hi, David' [230]; surname not given) | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. Mr.. Close. Yes. Mr..
TEXT> Hi, David. Mr.. I don't know who the director currently is. But I do know that that position is get to be a professional person and asking somebody who's a professional to work part time, which soon means that sort of benefits  doesn't lead me to a conclusion that you're going to get quality time for that person. That means they're going to go out if they need to work full time and finding that record. So now this building their energies into two positions. And so I don't know if it sure thing is, is stays with them, but I think this will and also hit the nose on hit on the head when he said I that cutting the guidance counselor decision is seems like a step backwards, because I would think that I don't know why the program has faltered over the years and why it's time now. It seems like guidance counselors would be the mechanism for getting kids into this program, so cutting the guidance down seems like a step back. So I don't know who you get for a part time job for, I just have one more point that I would like to make.
NEXT> Unidentified: I know that living in the state of New Hampshire, we have to operate under an unjust property tax system. I get property taxes are high, and they're the highest

[R12204-122] Allen Damren | Public commenter, Ward 1, mover of both tech center amendments (ASR 'H | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Is there anybody else who would like to speak to article two, as amended? Mr. Dammann.
TEXT> I moved to amend the fiscal year 2020 223 time on school district budget. The proposed budget is posted on form miss  26 as follows. To add $87,290 to account 100.35 .21 20.110 .5.50. Making the total function 2,021.99. Proposed budget $2,653,045 and the grand total budget proposed after amendment two. $37,393,088. This amount of money is being proposed to add  sufficient funding within the Tech Center budget for the position of guidance counselor. Quite honestly, I think if we look around, a lot of the guidance work and so forth is related to four year institutions.  Scholarships, so on and so forth. I do believe, as we started to do some years ago when I was still at the office, proposed that a guidance counselor dedicated to vocational center interest was a way to generate interest in of the one to bring the CTE curriculum further into eighth grade, seventh grade, and so forth. Exactly what you have to do to get that interest to develop and have those students further their education by moving into the CTE programs, get those programs established, and have the students matriculate in them during their high school years.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So thank you.

[R12210-15] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: would characterize some urgency over the board over the weekend. And so, I guess I would turn it to one of the people who wanted to, have a have this meeting to explain to the people here and people at home why we're here tonight.
TEXT> Well, could I could I simply make a motion and then we could have discussion later to that. So I'd like to make a motion to revise the Claremont School District decision making matrix to reflect the following changes. Masks. Masks optional at all times for students and visitors. Physical distancing. Remove recommendations for plexiglass barriers at any transmission level. Seating charts. Seating assigned assignments will be at teachers discretion since no contact tracing is currently being performed. Visitors. No restrictions on visitors at any transmission level. Athletic and co-curricular activities. Limitations on spectators and mask requirements will reflect only those required by the State of New Hampshire. Building use. No restrictions for indoor or outdoor use for any school buildings. Transportation. What a discussion about this Max masks optional N95 masks encouraged for children over age 12. Parents encouraged to transport at all levels.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Second okay. Discussion. So my my first question is when effective. Okay. So here's I'm just going to give feedback on that because this is going to take in my

[R12210-16] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2022-02-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: those required by the State of New Hampshire. Building use. No restrictions for indoor or outdoor use for any school buildings. Transportation. What a discussion about this Max masks optional N95 masks encouraged for children over age 12. Parents encouraged to transport at all levels.
TEXT> Second okay. Discussion. So my my first question is when effective. Okay. So here's I'm just going to give feedback on that because this is going to take  in my mind, this is quite a change. And there are  a lot of people out. I mean, we hear from people that are think masks should be dropped immediately. I also hear from a lot of people that think that mass shouldn't be dropped at all. So I don't I, I, I hate to see the school board get caught up in what I see as a culture war, and I just think that I don't have any objection to anything you've just read.  Except that I do think that the administration administration needs a little time to prepare. And I'm going to give you a having had extensive experience in schools, particularly middle school and elementary. A concern I have is that students who, would wear a mask and their parents want them to wear a mask, won't wear a mask because it's not cool. And I think that I would like I would be much more comfortable if we gave the teachers and the administration a little time to prep kids for this, prep families for this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And, and I'm talking about the, the mask. All I'm talking about right now is masks optional. That's all I'm talking about. The rest of the stuff, we can go

[R12210-17] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: to wear a mask, won't wear a mask because it's not cool. And I think that I would like I would be much more comfortable if we gave the teachers and the administration a little time to prep kids for this, prep families for this.
TEXT> And,  and I'm talking about the, the mask.  All I'm talking about right now is masks optional. That's all I'm talking about. The rest of the stuff, we can go through it one more time, but the mask optional thing, I would like to wait on that until give our professionals a chance to process this with students, parents and teachers so that they can set up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Currently, we're at mask optional now with our transmission level per old matrix.

[R12210-27] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steve.' [83] before t | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: So other thoughts.
TEXT> Pretty much mirrors everything that I would have done.  In light of this, the big push came from the community to change this policy. We've been hearing it for several months that we needed to do something.  And the there's been a big vocal chunk of, of Claremont telling us, let's do something about the masks. Let's do something to get back to normal. That's always been our goal. I don't think it's going to get any better. We're endemic level now. This is we're going to live with this for the rest of our lives. And I'm not going to keep a mask on a child forever.  I just don't see the point of it.  On top of all the discussion out there, that the only mask is the n95s at this point that has any validity. So we've been running around just transmitting anyway with our cloth masks on our face. So I really don't see the point to continue down that path.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'd like to I'd, I'd, if you don't mind, could you go through that list again of all all the things that you.

[R12210-38] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Mary Woodman: Sure.
TEXT> Thank you. Okay. So,  under masks. Masks optional at all times for students and visitors. Under physical distancing. We move the recommendation for plexiglass barriers at any transmission level. I don't think we've actually been using them anyway.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have.

[R12210-40] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We have.
TEXT> Seating charts, seating assignments at teachers discretion. No contact tracing is being performed. One of the primary reasons we had seating assignments is because we were doing contact tracing visitors, no restrictions on visitors at any transmission level, athletic and co-curricular activities. Limitations on spectators and mask requirements will reflect those required by the State of New Hampshire. Building use no restrictions for indoor or outdoor use of any school buildings and transportation. Mask optional and 95 masks encouraged for children over age 12. Parents encouraged to transport at all levels.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Melissa Lewis can can you come up? I just want to ask you a couple of questions. So I'm going to pick on you okay? Okay. You're our you're our

[R12210-41] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2022-02-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: mask requirements will reflect those required by the State of New Hampshire. Building use no restrictions for indoor or outdoor use of any school buildings and transportation. Mask optional and 95 masks encouraged for children over age 12. Parents encouraged to transport at all levels.
TEXT> Melissa Lewis can can you come up? I just want to ask you a couple of questions. So I'm going to pick on you okay? Okay. You're our you're our senior administrator here. For those of you who don't know, most of Lewis is the principal at Disney Art school.  So how much truth is there in what I just said about people needing some lead time for this? To talk to kids about being stigmatized by wearing masks? Is there any?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I think so I can only speak to the elementary level. I don't work at the middle or high, so I can only represent elementary. I think that, we will

[R12210-42] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair calls up 'Melissa Lewis' a | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: who don't know, most of Lewis is the principal at Disney Art school. So how much truth is there in what I just said about people needing some lead time for this? To talk to kids about being stigmatized by wearing masks? Is there any?
TEXT> I think so I can only speak to the elementary level. I don't work at the middle or high, so I can only represent elementary. I think that,  we will have families who choose to ask us to please still require their child to, to wear a mask. That's going to be a challenge, in all honesty, when they see their peers not,  and we'll certainly work through that with them. It would be helpful for us to preview that some people may choose to have masks, some do not. It's a family decision. We respect whatever families decide, and it would be helpful for us just to have a little bit of time to talk with staff about how to work with that child who says, why do I have to have my mask on? But so-and-so doesn't. So it  any lead time is just helpful to plan.  It's harder for kids at the younger age to understand.  Older students or even our fourth and fifth graders. It. I'll be honest, it's going to be a challenge if families ask us to require for those kiddos  because they're a little bit more brazen and understand the world a little bit differently and understand what required means, and they may agree or disagree with their family.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Again, for me it's a family decision, so we appreciate any time we have to make transitions with kiddos. Because it's been for our older in particular, it's just been

[R12210-43] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair calls up 'Melissa Lewis' a | 2022-02-16
PREV> Melissa Lewis: honest, it's going to be a challenge if families ask us to require for those kiddos because they're a little bit more brazen and understand the world a little bit differently and understand what required means, and they may agree or disagree with their family.
TEXT> Again, for me it's a family decision, so we appreciate any time we have to make transitions with kiddos.  Because it's been for our older in particular, it's just been in place for so long. Can we do it without? Of course, our transition smoother when we signal first and give notice and talk to kids. Of course.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I personally, from my own viewpoint of all of these recommendations, I would only ask for lead time on the mask. Optional.

[R12210-51] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (chair calls up 'Melissa Lewis' a | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: I was wondering. I've heard a little time or a little leeway. I was wondering, when we say a little time or a little leeway, I mean, is that a couple of days? So put it in effect for Monday, or is that we talking?
TEXT> Yeah, Monday would be great  because it also gives families. And this is what I would ask of Disney families in particular. I would love time to draft something to send out that says, please have a conversation with your child about your family's choice.  And so that and and share your reasons why either yay or nay, whatever that is. Again, that's a family choice.  Just so parents can also have some conversation, particularly the older kids can ask questions if their families are going to require them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Josh okay. Go ahead. Josh.

[R12210-59] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (chair addresses 'Mike' [15] and 'Thanks | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: that's elderly. When Covid first started, we this matrix was correct. This is what we should have followed. And this is what we needed to follow. We're at a point where I think the severity, of Covid has changed. The vaccine, we have the vaccine.
TEXT> If people want to be vaccinated, we have different treatments  for Covid. If you get Covid. Plus, the natural immunity for those that have have been unfortunate enough to, to get Covid.  So I think we need to push. We've been trying to keep as normal as possible within the restrictions and within the,  recommendations. But I think it's time to push even further to get back to normal. We're affecting kids socially. We're affecting development by masking, wearing masks. And I think,  that continued risk of development for kids and social development outweighs the risk of people contracting  Covid at this point. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Steve.

[R12210-114] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: So based off what everyone said, is the conversation tonight that we're just removing the matrix and coming up with a flat plan, regardless of severity. Correct. And what numbers are we basing that off of, or is it just.
TEXT> The fact that no numbers are accurate and that the mortality and morbidity with Omnicom, which is almost 100% of all cases, is. Is almost it's very, very low, especially for children. And we have an option to vaccinate.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Can you explain?

[R12210-150] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2, public health professional (ASR 'Whitney Ski | 2022-02-16
PREV> Whitney Skillen: facts. Masking is is a critical public health tool for preventing the spread of Covid 19, and any mask is better than no mask. Covid 19 vaccines are effective at preventing you from getting sick and highly effective at preventing severe illness, hospitalizations, and death.
TEXT> Getting vaccinated is the best way to slow the spread of the Covid 19 virus. Sullivan County has had substantial community spread since the start of the school year. Claremont yesterday made up 51.4% of active cases in Sullivan County. That's more than half. Claremont's vaccination rate is 48.3%. That's less than half. Claremont Schools decision matrix for Covid 19 protocols is informed by public health science, and should stand to make Covid protocols against the matrix would betray the trust and transparency under which it was created. I recommend that the protocols continue to align with the decision matrix and any changes should not be rushed. This is a matter of safety for public for Claremont Schools students and staff. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael: Michael Ward three. While I was sitting there, I just got an unverified text from my girlfriend telling me that masks will be coming off all students in Vermont, effective

[R12210-151] Michael | Public commenter, Ward 3 (ASR 'Michael Ward three'; surname not given) | 2022-02-16
PREV> Whitney Skillen: betray the trust and transparency under which it was created. I recommend that the protocols continue to align with the decision matrix and any changes should not be rushed. This is a matter of safety for public for Claremont Schools students and staff. Thank you.
TEXT> Michael Ward three. While I was sitting there, I just got an  unverified text from my girlfriend telling me that masks will be coming off all students in Vermont, effective March 1st. We know that this has also happened in Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts. They've all got dates already happened or will happen shortly. There's a reason for this, and the reason is that it hasn't been effective. It has not worked. The operating system that we built over the last two years to deal with Covid was designed for the Delta variant, the Alpha variant. It was designed for a situation where, as Mr. Patron described, we had large numbers of the elderly that were at very high risk and some of them were dying. And while that's still possible, at some point you have to realize that we are, first of all, the concept that we are going to end Covid, that we're going to somehow  build an elaborate enough operating system of protocols that we're going to somehow eliminate. This virus is a complete fantasy. We know that this thing is here to stay. And so if it's here to stay, we've got to come up with a sustainable plan to live with it. And that's all we're really talking about here. You know, we are doing more harm than good. And we have been for a while. We've known for a long time that kids weren't at risk.
NEXT> Michael: That's not disputable. Those facts are proven all around the world. Why are we continuing to use an operating system that is obsolete against the Omicron variant that we have

[R12210-154] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael: had plenty of time to deal with this, and as far as the rest of it goes, whatever we're legally able to do, I want to turn the clock back to January 1st, 2020, and I want to do as quickly as possible. Thank you.
TEXT> Comment to Vermont is that,  again, as Mike said, they're shooting for March 1st, so there's lead time. They also have a,  there's students are vaccinated at 80% or higher in Vermont. I don't know what they are in in Claremont, New Hampshire.
NEXT> Veronica: So, so Vermont is recommending but the school has to be at 80% and to speak to the students who are staying home, who've had to be home. Honestly, if

[R12210-161] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (chair addresses 'Mike' [15] and 'Thanks | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Good.
TEXT> So back to how this motion I would be for your motion, if we look to amend it by the requirements of masking for the five days after,  kids return, the requirement for masking on busses. And I would give the leeway of pushing until Monday because I think it's a couple of days. I don't think it, in my opinion, makes  a big difference.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: You want to make a motion to make a amendment?

[R12210-184] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, attending remotely (roll call 'Doctor L | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, sure.
TEXT> So I'm going to pull out that card where I'm the only one currently working in a school. So I'm going to pull the expertise card here and say that yes, the masks are awful, but we just went through a situation next door in Charlestown where we had so many educators out with Covid that we almost had to go back to remote. So I don't want to see that anywhere. And if we pull the mask too early and we have educators sick either with Covid or with symptoms who aren't able to come back, there aren't any substitutes. None. No one is stepping up to come and cover these schools. So the parents who want to take the masks up, their kids step up and sub. If you don't want to step up and sub, keep the masks on until we can get better ventilation.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, good.

[R12210-188] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Is everybody aware of what we're of what we're voting on? No. Okay. So let's restate the motion.
TEXT> So we're no,  we're we are we have taken off the removing masks on the busses. So masks will be required on busses currently. So the motion is masks will be optional at all times for students and visitors.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Starting today.

[R12210-251] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: February 21st?
TEXT> Monday, February 21st. Masks will be optional at all times for students and visitors. We remove the recommendation for plexiglass barriers at any transmission level. Aren't there now? Seating assignments will be at teachers discretion since there is no contact tracing being being performed under visitors. No restrictions on visitors at any transmission level. Athletic and co-curricular activities. Limitations on spectators and mask requirements will reflect those required by the State of New Hampshire. Building use. No restrictions for indoor or outdoor use for any school buildings and transportation will remain the same.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any other discussion to that Mr. Whitman roll call. Vote again please.

[R12315-54] Joshua | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Joshua Ward three' [79], 'Josh agai | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: newer policies is that if we have citizens comments that are on agenda items, that they'll be taken at that time. So at this point, any comments that are don't don't have to do with the agenda items. Give us your name and ward, please.
TEXT> Joshua Ward three. I was just wondering, isn't there supposed to be a student representative at these meetings? Is there a student representative at this meeting?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There was a student representative.

[R12315-55] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Joshua: Joshua Ward three. I was just wondering, isn't there supposed to be a student representative at these meetings? Is there a student representative at this meeting?
TEXT> There was a student representative.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There was. We're looking for another student. We don't currently have one step down.

[R12315-56] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: There was a student representative.
TEXT> There was. We're looking for another student. We don't currently have one step down.
NEXT> Joshua: Okay, cool. That was. That was just my question. I'd like to sort of, again invite all of the parents and students at home to join these meetings. I think

[R12315-57] Joshua | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Joshua Ward three' [79], 'Josh agai | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: There was. We're looking for another student. We don't currently have one step down.
TEXT> Okay, cool. That was. That was just my question.  I'd like to sort of, again invite  all of the parents and students at home to join these meetings. I think it's really important to have student voices about the schools at the school board meeting. So,  I'm super excited to find out that you're looking for another representative, because I think we need that voice. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[R12315-70] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: We have that.
TEXT> At the end of. Oh, my. All right.  Superintendents. Report. Pardon me. All right. So the first item in the superintendent's report. And I'm sorry, I got clicker duty to. Okay, so. And the bigger screen up here. All right. So  the first item we have  to speak about is we submitted our SR three money.  And this is the breakdown of how we are  doing that. I have it summarized in the next slide.  And we'll show that the bulk of the money is going to  teachers  in support, but I have it itemized. It's a lot easier to read than this. This is the actual  submission to the state that we did  last month.  In terms of how excuse me, the the polls and the stakeholder groups in the survey. And also, we had 196 responses, the overwhelming  support. And you can you can see the breakdown. This is also going to be posted on online. I believe it's already up there. The overwhelming is in response to the question, the, the three areas where you believe are the most important priorities as the district responds to the impact of the Covid 19 pandemic,  the overwhelming  support with students, social emotional supports,  as well as additional staff to to aid in that and improvements to facilities.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Very next slide. Also 20% minimally of the Esser money has to be used to address specific learning losses. Which interventions would we would we be focused on continuing before

[R12315-72] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: school and other school enrichment, $320,000, the Career and Technical education visioning funding specifically for the item. Miss Crawford mentioned $100,000 to support that fund, which is going to get underway over the next couple of weeks. Is a little bit of delay on that.
TEXT> But I'll have  Mr. Herzog and others  speak about that when they come up for their presentation piece. Curriculum adoptions,  additional ones to the tune of 300,000, are  continuing the summer learning enrichment programs.  We put  1.4 million in that hiring, retention of professional staff.  440,000 course access opportunities. These are specifically for  enrichment and other types of courses outside that we can offer as well as one of our targeted approaches was for intervention. Students might need  for additional  enrichment, family engagement,  reaching out by the schools  to to the to the public to have them in $60,000  allocated over the next few years are  universal screening, academic assessments and intervention, $200,000 extended instructional time and Steam camps  put together $60,000 for summer vacations and in as well as after school in year  during the year vacations. Educational specific software allocations  for  Snap, which we actually have found a better solution than that specific one. And we're currently looking at transportation bus routing software so that we have more control over over that as well. Teacher performance bonuses.  $100,000 is put into that. We're going into negotiations with the teachers are coming soon over the next few months.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have had like similar districts. We have a performance bonuses for the other bargaining groups, and we wanted the state parallel with that and that that's how that's how

[R12315-73] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: specific one. And we're currently looking at transportation bus routing software so that we have more control over over that as well. Teacher performance bonuses. $100,000 is put into that. We're going into negotiations with the teachers are coming soon over the next few months.
TEXT> We have had  like similar districts. We have a performance bonuses for the other bargaining groups, and we wanted the state parallel with that and that that's how  that's how we allocated all of these allocations, our initial allocations that we submit  to to the New Hampshire  Department of Ed, we put them on file in our grants in the money is already is already allocated. We have it. We just have to be formally approved for these. We have already had indication that everything that we submitted is in good standing, and that they would contact us  if it was not so that that's that's where we are in this process. This money also can be  shifted  as needed. So you you don't know at the time that you allocated if it were exactly going to use this much. Oftentimes as with s or one and s or two,  we do have variations. We don't have that many kids going to summer camp after school or whatever, and we shift that money. All of these monies are outside of the budget, okay? They are in addition to  everything that we have in the budget since the beginning of of the Covid pandemic, I believe we've had just a little over $11 million additional to the budget to use these things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It can be deceiving, because this is one time money in which you can infuse and you can have you can really get back on track. There are some specific

[R12315-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: monies are outside of the budget, okay? They are in addition to everything that we have in the budget since the beginning of of the Covid pandemic, I believe we've had just a little over $11 million additional to the budget to use these things.
TEXT> It can be deceiving, because this is one time money in which you can infuse and you can have you can really get back on track. There are some specific provisions you can you can use, but we listen to all of all of the polling and our administrative team. And we are we are really focused on the social emotional welfare of students in the outreach and bringing students back who may have  who may have left the district or who have chosen other types of things  in enriching all that we do. So that's our that's our focus already on this item. So in summary. I don't know if there are any specific questions on that if you want me to continue to go through.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: As far as the hiring and retention, if this is one time money. How are we going to do some of these things sustainably?

[R12315-114] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right.
TEXT> We also have, Christopher Pratt.  Christopher Pratt is,  was was originally when in our previous meeting in your packet. I had to change this slide. He was an assistant principal coming to us.  From from a rural  in Massachusetts at in Greenville.  He was the interim  principal there prior to that. He was a superintendent of schools  in Bellows Falls, Vermont. In also in Windham,  Southwest supervisory Union. He was a principal elementary principal  in, in Vermont as well, and was assistant principal in Brattleboro  Union High School in Brattleboro. Again, very experienced administrator,  has put in  many programs in his career.  Specifically,  student student related  in programs that really encourage  student participation in democracy in the, in the governance of the school. We're excited to have him.  And,  we welcome you, Mr. Pratt. We we walked we had a meeting today in,  in the middle school, and we were walking around and  stopped into a couple classrooms of eighth graders, and  they were the first to be introduced to their their principal for next year. So he could not get already. So it's just great to have,  these leaders join our team. We're very enriched  by their addition, and we're looking forward to working with them.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right. So. And I'm still on. I apologize. There's Chris's slide. Not keeping up with my slides and my reading. And mark slide at Maple again. This presentation will

[R12315-121] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right.
TEXT> So,  the other item  that we,  we have on here is, as you, as I mentioned,  in terms of the, the, the polling  of the community as well as the administrative team and all all of everyone in the district, we  we're fortunate enough to have  C.L.  social emotional learning consultant.  Mister Charlie apple, he was here today. He has agreed to to work with us. He is a national presenter.  Looking at  specifically  bringing out the best in students  from a perspective of, positive behavioral.  His most famous book is  No Such Thing as a Bad Kid.  Using straight strength based approaches, which are in general are finding the positive in all that students do. Having a system of rewards  in looking at those challenges. How to get back on track. The the graphic on the right is one of his  is is most notable. He presents all over. He was with us in this room just a few hours ago.  And  his metaphor, controlling metaphor there is that we're all like trains. We're powerful.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sometimes we get off track. And and we have to work together to get and provide the supports for students to get, get on that track and never give up

[R12315-122] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: track. The the graphic on the right is one of his is is most notable. He presents all over. He was with us in this room just a few hours ago. And his metaphor, controlling metaphor there is that we're all like trains. We're powerful.
TEXT> Sometimes we get off track.  And  and we have to work together to get and provide the supports for students to get, get on that track and never give up on a student in general. There'll be more to to that. He's going to advise us in his program, as he's advised  many, many districts. But he also  he has a  publications and playbooks and things like that, that we're excited to be working with him. We he's a social worker by trade, but he is a trainer. He has been for the last 40 years.  This is the slide that's easier to follow that talks about some of the positions. I put that in there. So you can see. So in in these positions and I talked as well I would, I would ask  Principal Romeo, Principal Pratt and  Doctor Herzog  to come up and we can talk about some of the,  some of these,  you know, how, how we are going to allocate funds and some of the visions they have. Okay. Of of this. So these positions, I'll talk about them quickly and then I'll let them let them chime in.  If you look at the bottom is the high school. Okay. So Steve Stevens high school. We have a model that was that has been there  for a while, where we use campus aides as discipline monitors, monitors and helping  out with the administration.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So those are already funded in the local budget. There are three positions. There are two campus aides and one who is is part time. They have been funded. What

[R12315-123] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in. If you look at the bottom is the high school. Okay. So Steve Stevens high school. We have a model that was that has been there for a while, where we use campus aides as discipline monitors, monitors and helping out with the administration.
TEXT> So those are already funded in the local budget. There are three positions. There are two campus aides and one who is is part time.  They have been funded. What we're proposing to do  also and  Mr.. Mr.. Pratt can talk about this after I'll kind of give the overview for all of it in the principals and in CTE director can fill in  as their portions come up. But the  the campus aides are folks,  they do help out with the discipline. We're looking to have long term subs and secure them in all of the buildings using some of the other monies,  that, that  esser monies. So that we have we have constant subs. It's  hard to find them and we want to we want to get them right away  so that there's consistency and stability. The academic center and alternative program that we have funded here.  We have three positions. These are the three positions that that we talked about. We're going to getting into that. We can revisit this. That will answer some of the questions. The extra science, math and English teacher  that we have allocated for the high school  is to really put in a  make more robust the  the Arc program and similar programs so that students who are failing can get remediated in smaller chunks and units so that they don't  fall down completely and can't get the credits just being a more progressive.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: With that, we had a recently over the past few years, actually a little bit before Covid, we've had trouble with the four year graduation rate of getting students out,

[R12315-124] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: really put in a make more robust the the Arc program and similar programs so that students who are failing can get remediated in smaller chunks and units so that they don't fall down completely and can't get the credits just being a more progressive.
TEXT> With that, we had a  recently  over the past few years, actually a little bit before Covid, we've had trouble with  the four year graduation rate of getting students out, and it really needs attention, and that's what we're really focused in. We're also looking at the  the transition of that from middle school to make sure that we're consistent,  both in the  behavioral expectations for students as well as the academic expectations, and that those are parallel. We often hear in many of you  at home, and we may have heard from students going to the high school and and really  come up in terms of expectation and grades and commitment. The more parallel we make that in, the sooner we make that transition,  the better. So that is why you will also see,  and that is that is the high school allocation, many of those. If you look at those  positions and again we ballpark the targeted range for someone with a master's degree.  Conservatively at 55,000 for those as teachers. The campus aids high at 4000 salary. And then on top of that,  with benefits,  which is substantial, usually between 40 to 45%.  In addition to that. So that's where that money goes fast.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: If you look at parallel, if you look above at the middle school, I'll talk about the one position that was spoken about the guidance position. We wanted to put

[R12315-125] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with a master's degree. Conservatively at 55,000 for those as teachers. The campus aids high at 4000 salary. And then on top of that, with benefits, which is substantial, usually between 40 to 45%. In addition to that. So that's where that money goes fast.
TEXT> If you look at parallel, if you look above at the middle school,  I'll talk about the one position that was spoken about the guidance position.  We wanted to put that in additional guidance  position, and I'll come back after I explain it all briefly in Principal Romeo as well as  Principal Pratt can speak about this. So, in more detail than I am right now, and my voice is going as well. But but that is so. And part of that would be allocated just for the, for the purposes of CTE. And he'll talk about, about that how each guidance counselor that is in there, he's I won't steal his thunder but he's got a great proposal.  The we would also have three deans of students and we're hoping to  make make those  to have a similar academic center again, intervening sooner with students who are having  academic and social emotional difficulties  aggressively so that they don't show up and are ready at drop out freshman year or so, which we've seen a lot more of lately, particularly after Covid. So that is it. The three deans of students, they would be a mixture of existing staff, depending on the strengths and who applies, or outsiders who would come in and help to staff the academic center, be additional,  not additional teaching staff. But they would help again with the management of student  interventions. And I'll let Mr. Romeo talk about that in detail.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And again, paralleling the campus aids in the success with that at the high school. He would also have a campus aid in a long term. Some the these are

[R12315-139] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: you're helping triage what is exactly going on? From all angles. And it's not just, okay, there's behavior. The hammer nail method. We need something more for these students. And it may be that it's social, emotional, and that's going to help with the academics.
TEXT> It may need that. They need some more individual  time. Smaller classes, smaller attention.  More attention in smaller settings. So these academic centers that will exist will really help those students in need. And I really feel like we'll catch them before we're going to lose them. And so, I mean, that's the basis behind what we were designing and what we were thinking. I used I taught in  East Baltimore for ten years, and we had this in East Baltimore, and it really helped capture these students. I worked at high school,  before they were dropping out, before we were losing, before they were cutting classes, before they were leaving school and stuff like that. It gave them a place to go, and it gave them  that individual attention that they really needed. The idea is that you get these students, they may stay in the academic center, they may need that. But it really is to help give them the tools that they need and really get them back into general population and give them opportunities that they need to be successful.  And then looking at the targeted subject areas, it really was about just it would be nice if you're dean of students that you have each have a certain discipline that they that they are familiar with, so they can work with that discipline.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: They can work with kids individually. They can work with teachers, you know, that need that support. It really is about taking teachers that have that administrative potential and giving

[R12315-140] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: successful. And then looking at the targeted subject areas, it really was about just it would be nice if you're dean of students that you have each have a certain discipline that they that they are familiar with, so they can work with that discipline.
TEXT> They can work with kids individually. They can work with teachers, you know, that need that support.  It really is about taking teachers that have that administrative potential and giving them some opportunity to really share their knowledge and grow. And it's sort of like a farm system. And what would be great is if we have people like this. We want to keep good teachers in this district, and we have so many great teachers. I don't want to see people leave. I love being here in Claremont. I want to stay and I want the people I work with this day.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Great. Thank you.

[R12315-156] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, elected this meeting [32-36] (Skill | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: Yeah. And that's.
TEXT> The students that are going to be targeted.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Right. So I'll, I'll go to your last question first about how they're identified. We now meet in we have team meetings. All the teachers meet. Right. And they'll discuss

[R12315-157] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: The students that are going to be targeted.
TEXT> Right. So I'll, I'll go to your last question first about how they're identified. We now meet in we have team meetings. All the teachers meet. Right. And they'll discuss we have two, two meetings. One would be sort of what. It's the academics. What are we doing in our classrooms  by grade. And then it's the student concerns, like where where are we seeing,  students, where the concerns, as we've all been in school and educators. Some students react differently to certain teachers. So a teacher may I don't see that problem that you're seeing. I understand you do. Here's what I've been working on. So if we can identify through that team approach and you add now a counselor, a dean and a campus aide into those meetings together to really wrap around, I think that team would identify those students that would most benefit from a setting like this. I also think, again, behaviors, information. And when we're getting these behaviors that are coming out of these classrooms, a student is telling us, I need this as well. And I think if we're going to listen, this is kind of some of the things that we can put in place for them as going to your how do we dissolve this?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: My thought. I mean, the counselor I really think is something I believe strongly that would need to stay. And and that's to to your question. That's one thing. I

[R12315-159] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: put this in place, I think this helps really put structures in place and we may not need it would be great. Believe me, it would be great to have all of this. And I and I get that and we have to be responsible.
TEXT> You know, to the community and what we're spending. But I really see for right now, in the next couple of years, this is really going to help set in place structures that we will need.  And then I think as we look over the next couple of years, do we look and see, do we need all of them? What's working, what may not be working, what do we need to change? And I think as we're introducing some of the new curriculum, I think having a team in place,  is really going to help teachers focus on the things that they need to be focusing on. I think right now, with everything that's going on as kids are coming back in and again bringing everyone back. I mean, you look at an eighth grade student, they have not had a full year of school since they were sixth grade. And so a sixth grader. Really. Right. And look at an eighth grade. What a difference that is. And they're struggling socially and academically. So I like this in place to help with some of  those gaps. And then as we take a look and grow what do we need. What do we need to change?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Whitney, did you still.

[R12315-164] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: on the success of this program to help inform us as to how effective the money being spent is? Absolutely. To help inform us if we need to in the future, when the Esser funds run out, use local budget to keep this program running.
TEXT> So one of the things that we use, it's  our PBIs system and it helps us track data. So,  my assistant principal Jamie Winning, a former math teacher,  is a data geek, for lack of a better term. And so,  is really on top of it. And we use data to drive the things that we're doing in places we need to be,  and hopefully to drive curriculum that's happening. So we were going to take a look at what our  referrals where,  where do we have successes in class of how many students are in the program? If we're going to call it a program, for instance,  and have many students grown out of it, and that's a success to me. So if we're starting to put this in place, when we start with, we recognize 20 per grade level, let's say, and halfway through we're down to 10 or 12. That's a good measure of success. If we're seeing referrals that are starting to drop  less, students that are being either sent out of class or having to stay after, or whatever the case may be. To me, that's a measure of success. So I think those type of things that we can use  to help measure success.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Yeah. And I would also add to that things like attendance discipline and discipline interactions and and their grade performance.

[R12315-166] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Yeah. And I would also add to that things like attendance discipline and discipline interactions and and their grade performance.
TEXT> Yeah. Attendance is  often a tied to a  tied to students,  desire right to be in school to find a safe place to be, to make a connection. And so  if you're working academically like we are,  you capture a student's attention and they want to be there. Yeah. And so I think given that that that was those would be all points of data.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: That makes sense. My second question is about the campus aid. And anyone can answer this. That knows the answer is the function of the campus aid. Like a I'm

[R12315-199] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you.
TEXT> All right, so the next the next item is, is  the schedule  in again. We can I'll just give you the bare bones for this. But  also talking about how how we're staffing the the middle school program  as appeared  with the high school. There's a lot of value added  having the academic centers, the academic centers. The major difference. Just to boil it down, I know for time's sake, the major difference between the academic centers  in the at the middle school, in the high school is the ones already spoken about at at the middle school are going to be staffed by the team of teachers. They're going to take shifts through when you can see that,  this is the top as a student schedule what they will have, how the UA is rotate  and how we hope to push in. And also and we'll talk about it in a little bit more depth  of rotation of. Exploratory classes for the eighth graders to begin this fall at the Tech Center, in order to get back at the to the Tech Center to swell those numbers, have more students going through there. We're working hard on developing that. We're going to have introductory courses. We're really trying to to maximize that. And we feel that the most successful way, somewhat,  looking at the successes of our neighbors in Newport, is to have that rotation through.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So there's exposure and then we grow the programs. There's also a professional learning opportunity for the for the teachers and what we're excited about as well, and working and

[R12315-200] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: through there. We're working hard on developing that. We're going to have introductory courses. We're really trying to to maximize that. And we feel that the most successful way, somewhat, looking at the successes of our neighbors in Newport, is to have that rotation through.
TEXT> So there's exposure and then we grow the programs.  There's also a professional learning opportunity for the for the teachers and what we're excited about as well, and working and combining and being very, very intentional with our 612 delivery of things is that we can have students from  teachers from the middle school,  potentially released on the PLC that you see down the bottom, and also the prep periods to to go to the high school. And we'll talk a little bit more about that if for planning purposes and to create the courses and,  and I'm going to, I'm going to scoot quickly through this because it is taking more time than we intended. The next is  a slide talking about the  sixth grade teacher and advisory teacher. Same way how how it rotates. I won't get in the weeds of the mechanics of of the middle school schedule, but to say that it aligns so that a student  has multiple opportunities in the eighth grade to take a variety of things. Elect of a of of us. Okay.  Also, those are going to be the the starter exploratory courses for, the tech center, which we're really excited about. Okay.  This is  our slide for the tech center. If  and we can have  we can go forward and talk to hers. I would come up. What what we're looking to do is  with Steve, we're like we're planning the courses.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're planning that exploratory on the other side of that for the fall presentation. I'm sorry guys. So on, on, on for the other side of that, we're also looking

[R12315-203] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Leave it.
TEXT> I'm Doctor Alex Herzog, I'm the director of the tech center here. And so. With. Mr. Romeo and Mr. Tempesta, we came up and did some brainstorming and trying to look at how do we get. Mr. Pedro, you talked about how do we get these eighth graders in there sooner? You know, we thought, well, how do we change that schedule? Well, we were able to really take a look at it. And I think we've come up with a pretty good solution. We're going to focus on quarter classes that will give students a just to kind of to whet their appetite and what we offer here at the tech and not just what we do here at the tech, but other courses that would  they may be interested in. For instance, Nico Oaks is our career counselor that's been working with us all there all year, and she's been at the middle school teaching career classes there, and she has a good idea of what the students have all really interested in. A lot of the ones float to the top are a criminal justice or military kind of experience.  And so we're thinking, how do we make those work? But if you look at what we've got up here, these are things that we can accommodate in the building.  We may be there may be some challenges to find an instructor for those.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We're going to work hard to see what we can fill. Some of my instructors currently at the tech center are willing to step up and give up their prep

[R12315-206] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: semester long and a student is not interested in that intro class, they are not engaged and they just become disruptive and they don't want to do it. So the shorter the classes for us, the shorter time period, and then they could get multiples.
TEXT> So we're looking at periodic or, you know, off the cuff about 30 students and two classes per quarter.  And then that'll get us about 120 students to come through.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You know.

[R12315-219] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, elected this meeting [32-36] (Skill | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Congratulations.
TEXT> Just of note that it's important for people to know that the bowling team, they get scholarships. So we had a student that actually got a full scholarship, two students that got full scholarships for bowling. So it's a.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: How many of them were seniors?

[R12315-261] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: and I'm assuming it may be similar at the middle school, but I think those numbers are down to around 500 or 5, ten or something. So there are a lot of missing kids out there that disappeared during Covid. So I don't see any.
TEXT> You you don't believe believe me. That's the summary. So in the,  in in the bins in the other document, I gave the whole board netter online, some of the focus to recapture those students are to have  more funds allocated than nonprofessional staff, to have assistance with the truancy officer,  to have more outreach  from the schools, to have more trainings on how to do that outreach and  be more aggressive. And,  what's typically known in the special ed parlance is child find and things like that to, to find those students so that that's  some of the funds in that,  in that bucket. So I didn't I didn't I didn't list every I mean it's we we would still be in that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Sir, did you have a question if you can come up to the mic. Steve. Got you.

[R12315-267] Norm Blue | Public commenter, Ward 3 (continues directly from his self-ID [409-410 | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: About 50%. Go. Yeah. Go to college. Yeah. That's that's a historical over the last three.
TEXT> What are you going to do with the rest of them? There's students left behind. That's where the trade school comes into effect. Sure. I don't have kids in this school system. I've never had them in this system. I'll be honest with you. There isn't much I would want them to be in this system. You know where I come from, the trade schools go by counties. And to get into one is worse than trying to get into college. But at the same time, those that get in there come out to be good people at the end. We've had many years here of taking students at the end of four years of high school, and you see them down on the corner and ten years later they're still down at the corner, or they're working for  Casella or somebody along that line. They're. The problem is, where are you going to start? Get finding out what students need. Are you going to start when they get into high school, or are you going to start in seventh and eighth grade, where you should start to get them onto some type of a curriculum? So when they get done at the end of four years, they become part of the community instead of a detrimental part of the community.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah. So I can I can answer some of that if you want or Mike can answer. Yeah. We're looking to start in eighth grade to get kids from the

[R12315-268] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Norm Blue: to start in seventh and eighth grade, where you should start to get them onto some type of a curriculum? So when they get done at the end of four years, they become part of the community instead of a detrimental part of the community.
TEXT> Yeah. So  I can I can answer some of that if you want or Mike can answer. Yeah.  We're looking to start in eighth grade to get kids from the eighth grade to come over here and experience what goes on here.
NEXT> Norm Blue: We have a counselor that's capable of talking to the eighth graders. As far as what we're going to offer as a trade.

[R12315-272] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Norm Blue: finer points and so forth. And that's what you're looking to get out of this building here is when they go out of here, can they do at least do a portion of the job and get going in life other than being a bum?
TEXT> So I think there are several, several things that are proposed.  That Doctor Herzog  spoke about is having and Mike spoke about  is having a counselor that is for for the tech center, the CTE, as well as helping at the eighth grade to get those students here, and then also the visioning committee.  But.
NEXT> Norm Blue: At the same time, though, when you get them.

[R12315-291] Joshua | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Joshua Ward three' [79], 'Josh agai | 2022-04-06
PREV> Joshua Lambert: So I.
TEXT> Josh again, Ward three.  Yeah. I have another question about this program. One I'd like to say it sounds great. So I'm super into it.  My question is about how many students do you think will be able to be served by this program? And how many students do you think need to be served by this program? And then my second question is, what sort of recruiting strategies are we going to do to actually fill the positions? Because recruiting is really difficult.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Great. No. So, how high school is about 500 right now, maybe a little shy of that right now, I don't know. So high school, middle school population is about

[R12315-295] Joshua | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Joshua Ward three' [79], 'Josh agai | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: had time in people to do that. We also know that we're burning out our own teachers using they're doing the classroom. They're doing everything. We also feel by having others come in and focus on those elements, that will be a strong, strong piece.
TEXT> But we can't put 900 students in one academic.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You have to come up here so people can hear you on.

[R12315-298] Joshua | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Joshua Ward three' [79], 'Josh agai | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The no, it's not. So there's there's 375 in the middle school. In the middle school right now, they will be going through the the top portion.
TEXT> But we'll like I I'm you know, they're only a handful of people there. They can't service 300 students at once. So how many do you expect to actually be, you know, like is.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In there at one time during the day per grade level? I would, I would estimate at least the most at risk right now at the middle school 2025. I

[R12315-299] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Joshua: But we'll like I I'm you know, they're only a handful of people there. They can't service 300 students at once. So how many do you expect to actually be, you know, like is.
TEXT> In there at one time during the day per grade level? I would, I would estimate at least the most at risk right now at the middle school 2025. I don't I don't have a hard number for you. I just I just know the interventions that they do all the time by grade in terms of how we already,  do that at the at the high school, there's approximately, I don't know, a dozen or so kids who go through the art program that we have with only one person in there. We're going to push in,  and,  and have at least three others in there to, to do that when they don't have the students in front of them. The other duty is that they're going to be writing that credit recovery software, bolstering up the Odyssey where that we have as well, so that they have live instruction. They also have at recovery at their at  at their own rates and, you know, asynchronous and a few other models. But that's, that's that's the focus.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R12315-303] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You mean in tiered response. How many? Yeah, it's a lot higher now. And I would I would defer to.
TEXT> 10%. How many kids is that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: 10% in the high school. About the 50 kids I don't I think it's I think every kid is presenting in different ways for the social. It's much.

[R12315-304] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: 10%. How many kids is that.
TEXT> 10% in the high school. About the 50 kids I don't I think it's I think every kid is presenting in different ways for the social. It's much.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Higher than kids.

[R12315-305] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: 10% in the high school. About the 50 kids I don't I think it's I think every kid is presenting in different ways for the social. It's much.
TEXT> Higher than kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's why I'm.

[R12315-307] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That's why I'm.
TEXT> Sorry you had said that the most at risk kids, that's why I.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, but but all the kids can go through it as well. And the kids, I got to be honest with you and I let let the principal speak about

[R12315-328] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Oh recruiting.
TEXT> Yeah. So recruiting we we have ads out already.  We're looking for more journals  as well as other creative ways to get folks  where we will try anything, particularly for the nonprofessional. We have also heard of other folks who might want to volunteer their time. If a particularly a  engineers and other people who stimulated not mentioning any names. Okay. For example, but  who we would love to reach out and have come into the fold and really use the whole community in showing kids, you know, what's out there in advocating for those things. So intent.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[R12315-333] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair, elected this meeting [32-36] (Skill | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: So Heather than Josh and than Whitney.
TEXT> So my issue and I'm going to keep beating a dead horse is that,  we need a plan to transition before we even implement this.  And we need a plan to have it so it's sustainable. And, you know, we have the structures in place for it to happen. We can't just really look at it as we go. I think we have to have an absolute plan on how we're going to transition students, because we're going to have parents and students who have an emotional attachment to the program. They're going to have expectations that it's going to be there. Somebody is actually going to have a loss. Somebody is not going to have this program to transition into the following year. And unfortunately, we have an issue in the district. Sometimes when money just gets shuffled around and I and I want to know where our dollars are going and I want it in writing, I want to plan.  I don't want to reevaluate it. I want a plan for evaluation with, you know,  stepwise goals on how we're actually going to meet that expectation in two years and just nail it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I also am curious about the campus aides, and I know we have, some issues with credentialing and not having necessarily the, optimal credentialing for some of our support staff.

[R12315-339] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: sense. And, and, and a lot of these dollars could be used to actually get our, our folks that are less credentialed or don't have the skill set within our district. Now we can get them up to speed. The ones that exist right now.
TEXT> So the the campus aid folks that we have, those are existing and they're about those range anyway. And they have been for years. What we're trying to do at the, at the, at the middle school is make sure the students are safe in a way into incentivize people to stay  as well, kind of working up delay with the with the deans and with the campus.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Aid specialists. Are they? What are they?

[R12315-352] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: those gaps. And again, keep in mind, federal funding for Esser is specifically for learning loss. So it's not meant to to be sustainable. It's just this really lovely gift of money to be able to say, how can we work on closing those gaps?
TEXT> And the most logical way to do that? We spent a lot of time tonight talking about the high school, in the middle school, and what will need to happen in order to to really kind of give that nice wrap around the students who have probably honestly suffered the most. It came at a moment in their development that was incredibly important. And so it's that wrap around the students at that point. At the same time, we're simultaneously building the capacity of our elementary teachers through enhanced,  curriculum, through enhanced supports around social emotional learning, so that some of this stuff can fall away within the next few years that, you know, we I hope we're not in this situation three years from now. I hope we're in a  much better place academically and emotionally, socially. So keep that in mind.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Patrick Whitney, and then we'll get to you.

[R12315-354] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member, newly elected March 2022 (roll 'Whitney | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Patrick Whitney, and then we'll get to you.
TEXT> This, all of this sounds really good. I'm really I'm a very optimistic person, so I, I vibe with the hope. But I'm also kind of a realist in that,  I don't think we can we should move forward just on. Hope not. And not to say that we shouldn't be optimistic that everything's going to go how we want, but I've heard a lot of assumptions around attrition, around the need for this in the future, and that's fine. Like all projects come with assumptions. But what I would like to see is some kind of documentation, like maybe even a slide deck of the all of the detail thinking behind this. Like what are we assuming is going to happen? What are the risk to those assumptions, and how are we going to mitigate those risks if we if what we want to see happen doesn't come to fruition? Like let's say we expect all this attrition so that we can so that it can be sustainable down the future without the Esser funds. What are the numbers behind that? How much attrition do we expect? How much, how many students do we think are in need right now? Versus how many students do we think will be in need at the end of this program?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: All of these are very straightforward things that are usually included in proposals. And so I would just like to know, like what are the risks that we're mitigating for.

[R12315-373] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and I don't want to say like, this is a surprise. We always get the most money in the region, and we already have a lot of these supports in place. What we're doing now is just going all in as quickly as we can.
TEXT> We're confident that we can taper them off. We're confident that many of them have always been here, and what we need to show you is the urgency with other types of data, long standing and the like. And we can do that. We are ready to do that. I mean, but there's some long standing things that we wish we could go in all like this that we have never been able to do, where frankly, this is like an interventionist and administrators dream to be able to come in right away, even if it is to the doctor generals point for a couple of years. It is a gift was the. So why wouldn't we go all in? We haven't. We will have an accident. We we would never put kids. We would never set something up that would hurt a kid if we took it away prematurely. We know that we're hoping that we can get immediate,  remedies and get more kids back. Who has left and why? All of these other things? That's it's a lot of work  to find out. But but we need to and I agree with all the points that have been made.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: So I just wanted to give kind of a perspective from like my experience next door in Charlestown. I mean, I work in a much smaller school than what's going

[R12315-374] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I've got Josh' [517] and 'Bonni | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we can get immediate, remedies and get more kids back. Who has left and why? All of these other things? That's it's a lot of work to find out. But but we need to and I agree with all the points that have been made.
TEXT> So I just wanted to give  kind of a perspective from like my experience next door in Charlestown. I mean, I work in a much smaller school than what's going on here, but it really is like every kid who at any given day can be not in the right mindset for learning.  So like, for example, there's really only two classes. I mean, there's only five in the whole school, but there's really only two that have had experience in school normal before Covid happened.  And this school year is really the first primarily normal school year they've had in 2 or 3 years. And we have one of those two classes who is regularly meeting with the guidance counselor every week, like the whole class, not even just individual students. So that's where I'm seeing this come in. And not having to be still in place in a couple of years, because again, it's dressing that Covid like social emotional issue where they haven't had the same experiences as older kids and like, even like high school and middle school, it's different than like the elementary schools who, you know, really haven't had any,  like true school experience.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: But I mean, getting just an extra intervention because once Covid had like once everything's back to what we now think of as normal, we should be seeing the students

[R12315-375] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'I've got Josh' [517] and 'Bonni | 2022-04-06
PREV> Joshua Lambert: it's dressing that Covid like social emotional issue where they haven't had the same experiences as older kids and like, even like high school and middle school, it's different than like the elementary schools who, you know, really haven't had any, like true school experience.
TEXT> But I mean, getting just an extra intervention because once Covid had like once everything's back to what we now think of as normal, we should be seeing the students who were doing just fine before. So if they're in high school, when they were middle school and they were middle school and they were early elementary, they should still be struggling in two years. If this works the way it's supposed to, and having this many additional intervention opportunities is just going to it's going to help. So much like I, I don't see this not helping at all.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: It's Stephen.

