[R15531-114] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 to the March 2024 e | 2024-01-17
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: Yeah, that's a win win, right? For your teachers and your kids.
TEXT> Right. And the other pieces that we're changing, how we're teaching kids to read now and a lot of instructors, as far as I understand, a lot of instructors were not taught the the old way, which is now the new way of how to read. So we really do need to coach our teachers in a new way of teaching  little kiddos how to read. And so by adding an additional instructional coach, we can adequately cover our elementary schools.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R15531-132] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'moving on to a | 2024-01-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Took, for example. Grade two and the different schools and the, the numbers are different. They're not similar. And I thought there would be. I thought they'd be closer together.
TEXT> Yeah. It really we were talking about two groups, two classrooms of students in most of the schools. So you're talking about 24 students. Maybe, maybe, maybe. I'm sorry. Closer to 40 students. It's very easy, depending on which students you have in front of you, to have variation on those test scores, because we're really talking about pretty small numbers. If we were talking about a region and we had, you know, 602nd graders, it would look much more similar. Okay.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: All right. Thank you. I just I just a comment. Thank you for all of you. Thank you for the work that you're doing. As a district, we are now

[R15531-133] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and CHAIR of the SAU | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mike Koski: on which students you have in front of you, to have variation on those test scores, because we're really talking about pretty small numbers. If we were talking about a region and we had, you know, 602nd graders, it would look much more similar. Okay.
TEXT> All right. Thank you. I just I just a comment. Thank you for all of you. Thank you for the work that you're doing. As a district, we are now coordinated moving forward in a well-researched a curriculum is not sitting on a shelf. It's being implemented with instruction and assessment. And the accountable talk is not only happening for students with coaching, it's happening for adults as well. And so everyone is speaking a common language based on instructional strategies. So thank you for the work that you're doing.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. No, everybody's doing a great job.

[R15531-145] Lee Malloy | Lead teacher, the Academy (the district's alternative-education progra | 2024-01-17
PREV> Lee Malloy: High School students last year, so I didn't want to collect any. Obviously, I didn't have any data to collect from. So our past fail rates last year we were at a 65% of fail and rate, now were at a 3% fail on courses.
TEXT> So in the 22, 23 year,  you'll see that they, the ten students passed 34 classes,  and failed 30 or 63 this year so far.  And actually, since I've created this,  two students have passed two more courses, which has been really exciting on Odyssey where. So as of right now we have 56 courses have been passed so far this year and two have been failed.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And that's based on one quarter.

[R15531-149] Lee Malloy | Lead teacher, the Academy (the district's alternative-education progra | 2024-01-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: I have no idea what he said.
TEXT> Learning opportunity. So yes. No problem.  Attendance records. So 2223 last year is in red  and this year is in black. You will see,  an exception to one student. We have some major differences in attendance coming to school, being there, being part of the program. So which of course is helping in that passing classes because they're attending school and they're engaging in their education discipline records. So this is suspensions before entering the academy. So there was last year there was 59 suspensions. And this year there has been three.  And none of those suspensions have happened since the students have joined. And that's including students who are taking a tech course and or still attending classes down at the high school. We haven't had any suspensions. Log entries. So the log entries are related to behaviors that students or  admin can type in any log entries. Last year there was 137.  This year there has been 18 and I even broke that down. Hang on a little bit further for you all. Did you,  13 entries this year were before students came to the Academy,  and the academy has only had to put in one log entry so far. So we haven't had any major disciplinary or behaviors. That's kind of my like little just quick wrap for you all on on data and how they are doing so far this year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Sounds like prognosis being made.

[R15531-152] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and CHAIR of the SAU | 2024-01-17
PREV> Lee Malloy: Wonderful progress. Like it's been amazing. Absolutely wonderful. Do you have any questions for me before I hand it over to, Mr. Pratt, I think you're going to talk about sort of the high school side of things, since I'm not down there to report.
TEXT> Can I just ask, how many students are seniors? Juniors? ET cetera.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: So. Okay, let's see if I can do this. I have. Two seniors this year, who are now on track to graduate and will be graduating. I have. Okay. Hold

[R15531-194] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023); member of the Fin | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mike Koski: Would depend on the size.
TEXT> You've got ten kids, right?
NEXT> Mike Koski: I think so. Is that what you have for.

[R15531-198] Lee Malloy | Lead teacher, the Academy (the district's alternative-education progra | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mike Koski: 12, 12.
TEXT> 12 students?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's the what's the current square footage they're utilizing now X.

[R15531-217] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Ben Nester: wanted to present to the board for their consideration. We look at purchasing modules. Chris and I spoke about this recently. Those could be housed on on campus. Many, many school districts do go the modular out when it comes to creating programing like this.
TEXT> Ben. Can I. Talk a little bit about that? The residential properties.  So I don't know if it's fortunate or unfortunate that a few few years back, we were looking for for space, over in Bellows Falls and we fought, finding commercial space that we're looking at was the way to go. But what I found is astronomical hidden costs. When you look at a commercial space, you can look at a few things you get to look at, bring it up to code to have students in there. And what we found is that some of these older buildings, it's thousands of dollars for if there's asbestos, lead paint, you have to have Ada compliant. And there were and that was 100 and dollars that he didn't expect in these buildings. And a lot of times, you know, the the the landlord would say, you know, you pay for it or we pay for it, it's going to increase your rent. But I found it very discouraging going in with a budget and looking at residential properties to find out that in actuality, the the lease itself was affordable. It was all the other stuff that came with it. And addition to that, you have to take into consideration the school safety factor. If you're sharing it with someone else, you still have people coming and going.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We've got to still make sure that those students are safe in those buildings. So you got to bring up, you know, and also the other tenants in the buildings,

[R15531-218] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6, six days into the job - the  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: actuality, the the lease itself was affordable. It was all the other stuff that came with it. And addition to that, you have to take into consideration the school safety factor. If you're sharing it with someone else, you still have people coming and going.
TEXT> We've got to still make sure that those students are safe in those buildings.  So you got to bring up, you know, and also the other tenants in the buildings, you know, that can be a problem too, because if if we're not in a secured location that many people coming and going, it does become a safety issue.  What if you have a problem with a student and they're not, all that close to the building? You know, we're going to make sure that the staff and the students are safe and, you know, things can happen sometimes. So just to take that into consideration, when you're when you're looking at it, the if you if you go with the modular be similar to what you're looking at for for a pre-K it can be located to, you know, close to the, the tech center, you know, in the back lot or something like that. But the advantage you have for that is that if you use the the Esser funds to see that now, you're not tying, you know, fiscally being fiscally responsible to the taxpayers. Now you're using the upfront cost for the money to, to to get that building. Now you're not tying into those future costs of leased property. And, you know, with the economic, you know, plan to, to build up,  Claremont these properties aren't going to get cheaper.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And you tie in those, you know, we could be, find a good, a lease for an a property in a few years. When the lease is up, it's going

[R15531-280] Lee Malloy | Lead teacher, the Academy (the district's alternative-education progra | 2024-01-17
PREV> Lee Malloy: we're really removing them. I know one of the pieces about them being able to even up here, even for the students who are not taking a tech or a high school, class right now, other students pop up and say hi on their breaks.
TEXT> They meet up with their buddies to jump on the bus back and forth. There is also just the piece, and I think we just Courtney just left of you do have that mental health piece. You do have that working with the support. How do we if we have a student with an IEP or a 504 that has specific supports,  are we having those, you know, services travel up to our VCC to make sure that we're embedding those services in, because right now they're able to just come to us here. So there's a great side to it. Students love being at the college. There's  kind of that cool factor that's in there. The other piece is students are embedded into,  community service pieces, which they're able to walk to when they're down here,  when it's farther than you think, just because I've driven it many times, being there for over two years. So it has its its pros in its cons. It wouldn't be as somebody that's with the students every single day. It wouldn't be my first pick, to be honest. I you know, there's the old TLC building is great. But I agree with Mr. Pratt, when you start looking at Ada,  and getting things up and then the other piece module, I mean, I did request if we were going to do the module home, could I get like three bedrooms, maybe an open floor plan kind of situation?
NEXT> Lee Malloy: I think that that's really great. The students do love being here in the tech center, because it does make them feel like they're connected to their community and to

[R15531-281] Lee Malloy | Lead teacher, the Academy (the district's alternative-education progra | 2024-01-17
PREV> Lee Malloy: Pratt, when you start looking at Ada, and getting things up and then the other piece module, I mean, I did request if we were going to do the module home, could I get like three bedrooms, maybe an open floor plan kind of situation?
TEXT> I think that that's really great. The students do love being here in the tech center, because it does make them feel like they're connected to their community and to their school. So that's just kind of like the pros and cons that I do know about being in that program and being there. It's it's going to be tough if we're trying to have the students also be embedded in going back into classes or taking tech classes, that will be a challenge. The biggest challenge that we may see.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is that one of the goals of the academy, to have students eventually, as much as possible, be in their high school environment. Yeah. Yes. Thank you.

[R15531-282] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 to the March 2024 e | 2024-01-17
PREV> Lee Malloy: about being in that program and being there. It's it's going to be tough if we're trying to have the students also be embedded in going back into classes or taking tech classes, that will be a challenge. The biggest challenge that we may see.
TEXT> Is that one of the goals of the academy, to have students eventually, as much as possible, be in their high school environment. Yeah. Yes. Thank you.
NEXT> Lee Malloy: Absolutely. Yes. Yeah, for sure. It's being part of it. I read them their notices every single morning, so they know what's going on in the school so that they

[R15531-313] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC); chair | 2024-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: keeping the the academy here during that year of I'll call it transition would that impact the is what is the percentage of I believe we just were told what the percentage was not 50 square right. But what percentage is that of the total.
TEXT> That's a good question. I couldn't tell you what that they would probably have a calculation for that, that they would figure out  my, you know, I don't want I've heard Doctor Herzog doesn't want this program in the tech center. I've heard students ask my teachers that, and that's not the case at all. I think it's a great program. And we're seeing some successes. And,  you know, Lee and I are working together closer on that. And we want to see what we could do to get them into CTE.  I'm I'm just a letter of the law kind of guy. And the and the statement for the RSA specifically it should be exclusively for CTE. I don't want to see us get hurt down the road if we're ready for that. I just see that as another obstacle or, you know, a hindrance. And so I'd rather be concerned, you know, there was concerns about this room here. This is a community room that we opened up for CTE purposes, but it's also for school board meetings and such, too. But that was already built in. And adult ed also uses spaces in the building, which is under the umbrella for the CTE Bureau now. So that's an acceptable space. So we're just managing how often that part time uses, how much space they need and all that. That's something I'm working with Lee Kassian. So those are the things we're looking at.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Jennifer.

[R15531-358] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 to the March 2024 e | 2024-01-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: view them. So there is nobody that's out of the loop of what was discussed. We had a lot of, very keep not heated, but we were very poor in our questions were spirited. We were very we were very rigorous in reviewing the numbers.
TEXT> And we feel today  that our our numbers are what they should be. And we are confident in the budget that we are proposing. The three items that we're really looking to add into our budget.  Our instructional coach, which will be district wide, we'll be able to have enough people to  meet all the needs of our schools.  There was a request for three social workers, one for each of the elementary schools. We did not feel that was something that was sustainable, and we also felt that the instructional coaches could aid teachers in learning how to manage classrooms and student behaviors better.  And we also approved the Help Science program at the technical center with the associated startup costs.  And  Miss Crawford wants to read one statement, and then Miss Henry will present the budget.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And I have some notes. I won't read them. First of all, I'd like to thank, the CCTV and Josh Nelson for being so helpful. Yes, yes. We had I

[R15531-367] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay.
TEXT> So, you know, that is good. I think that's actually quite good, given the increases that we have. And we tried to consolidate within this budget and look for places that we could. I mean, cuts or cuts, you know, and those are hard. And again, we we really took into consideration the situation and how that was going to impact things and try to find ways, I think, with the finance committee to structure ourselves, to be able to handle  the the students that we have and the best way that we can. So moving on that right now, our budget is 3.55% over last year's, or that is roughly 1.2 million. Now I  want to I'm trying to think of the easiest way to explain this. We are 1.2 million up, but we are not raising 1.2 million in additional taxes. And here's why. Because our revenues went up. So we're really only raising with another item that I'm going to speak about. 852,000 of that would be added on to the tax rate.  But that is without any fund balance on it, which every year we have fund balance the past two years. In 23 we had 1.7 million in fund balance.  Last year we had 736. Now, out of that 1.7, the board chose to hold 426,000.  This year they've chosen to hold 420,000.
NEXT> Mary Henry: We also can use that 420,000 to offset taxation. Kind of like the town does. The town has money that they hold every year that they can say, okay, well,

[R15531-415] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Unidentified: Of what.
TEXT> You have to raise. So that's one, right? And and the other thing is adequacy. A adequacy aid could change. You know, the the court case happened.  The judge did rule in our favor on that.  I know there's bills right now that are in the house that's talking about making it $10,000 per kid. There's a lot of things floating around right now that's out of the 800 bills that are in the house. A good portion of them are education, some good, some bad, and,  you know, but, there is a lot going on there. The other thing that's driving our revenues this year is our increase inadequacy aid. We had an increase of about 3.8%. But overall, under the state's state sources, between catastrophic aid, which is on  our outer districts placements and things of that nature. We're up about $519,000. So that is really what's driving our revenue. On the other side.  So now I'll get into a little bit more of the other stuff. I know it's getting late, guys, so,  you know, this thing you want to do is here numbers, right?  But  so here's the main drivers of our budget this year that we had to that I wouldn't say are obstacles, but they were challenging to get past to try to get us to this number.
NEXT> Mary Henry: The benefit increases for health insurance rates, health insurance rates for parents, maintenance and secretaries were 8.8%. Teachers were 5.7%. There are two separate groups that we can't put together

[R15531-419] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Mary Henry: us more efficient and in the way we do things. I'm just a money person, but looking at it, I think we can work with the principal and go from there. But any positions that were, driven by SRS are no longer in the budget.
TEXT> That is like the student liaison. There's there was like an English teacher that was in there. Academic deans, things of that nature are no longer in the budget. So now, as far as Esser positions that are in the budget, we talked about Rick Elliott. He is an essay position right now. BCB, which again, you're going to have to remind me what that is.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Board certified behavior analyst.

[R15531-424] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-01-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: So they were in previous.
TEXT> They were. Yes. Previously. So it's it's not something that we have gone without. And we just decided to create this position for Esser to have it. Right. Right. I just want to make sure people know that,  we  have gone from two social workers to three like you had spoken about and trying to figure out how we were going to work those. The ESL teacher, you will see. Now there's a line in there.  It's 1260  currently. It was under 1100 for which is regular education instruction, which is not where that belongs. The state requires it be in  1260, which is the proper account number for it. So I've moved that out of there.  That is currently not a field position, but still a position that we need to have. I did drop down the district wide substitute line by 125,000 based on expenditures year to date and where we are and what we've used in the past.  I think we will be okay with that. But again, you just never know.  I'm just looking to see what else.  We have added a technology integration specialist in as well, because we had talked about that with Jeff, how important that was. We need that person to be able to work with the students and the principals and make sure everything's good there.  Just looking to see what else. Page that I did not print. Sorry.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What I mean.

[R15552-18] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; chair of the Parliamentary Procedure ad hoc commit | 2024-02-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: visionary leader to get our kids across that finish line. So where are we falling short and why aren't we getting our kids across the finish line? Primarily, it's a tier one instruction, which is general classroom instruction that impacts every student in the school.
TEXT> Our literacy and math data tells us that our tier one instruction needs to be enhanced and expanded prior to reaching  initiatives. We did not have  an aligned, district wide curriculum that was  the supported program in place to support our teachers in this initiative. Reading instruction and best practices has also changed. Current. Our current aid additional training for this new instructional method, and we know that students have the best chance of success if reading a group they are reading a grade level by grade three.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Supporting. Excuse me, this is a construction curriculum is the key to success. I firmly believe that, a successful school brings success to the whole community. It is an economic

[R15552-19] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Capital Improvement and Finance Committees; board | 2024-02-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: this initiative. Reading instruction and best practices has also changed. Current. Our current aid additional training for this new instructional method, and we know that students have the best chance of success if reading a group they are reading a grade level by grade three.
TEXT> Supporting. Excuse me, this is a construction curriculum is the key to success.  I firmly believe that, a successful school brings success to the whole community. It is an economic driver for the community. And in order for the schools to be successful, we have to have a good curriculum so that we're all all students are on the same path to success. One of the,  illustrations that Superintendent Pratt said the other day, and I think it was a great one. He talked about curriculum being  the road on which we traveled and the cars on that road or  whatever are the  actual textbooks and materials. The drivers of those are the teachers and the coaches, the curriculum coaches that make it all possible. Keeping that analogy in mind.  This curriculum and instruction again is a top priority. The board has approved the Wit and Wisdom in English and Language Arts program. We are trialing,  a math curriculum, and we have full implementation of all English and math curriculum anticipated for the fiscal year. School year 2526.  As you can see, science and social studies will follow. It will take a minimum of a year to see these scores improve. I think this is a really important point. Nothing happens overnight. We have to wait and see the board, the students, to absorb the learning to take the test. Receive the test. It takes 2 or 3 years to see the benefits of of this  integrated curriculum.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Also, failure to support teachers is failing to support students. The school board is extremely supportive of the teachers. We want you all to know that those teachers and parents

[R15552-24] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Capital Improvement and Finance Committees; board | 2024-02-03
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: parents are always welcome to attend committee meetings. We value community input at meetings like that. So the committee really is focusing on developing and creating supportive policies and procedures that can support positive classroom culture and enhance the learning environment for all our kids.
TEXT> This next slide is it's really  exciting for me to report.  We're expanding the CTE programing. That's at the center.  For about the past year and a half. There's been a vision committee who has been working diligently. About 25 members of the community have been meeting at least on a monthly basis. Looking at the tech center  programs that we could  in ways we could expand that program. We've been looking at the data from the community to see what kinds of jobs are needed and,  and what the students are interested in surveys from the students to see what kinds of courses they would take. So after all of that, in this budget, the board approved a health science program addition to the Tech center program.  As some of you may know, others might not. The tech center has  the CTE programs are a two year program.  The students go through it generally their junior and senior year, and they come up with a certified training for  getting a job. Or they can go on to further education,  for further education, to get a higher degree of coursework in that particular area. Additionally, in this budget is a full time career technical counselor.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And it's important to note the difference between a Greer counselor and a school counselor. A Greer counselor works with the students at the tech Center, and works with the

[R15552-25] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Capital Improvement and Finance Committees; board | 2024-02-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: and they come up with a certified training for getting a job. Or they can go on to further education, for further education, to get a higher degree of coursework in that particular area. Additionally, in this budget is a full time career technical counselor.
TEXT> And it's important to note the difference between  a Greer counselor  and a school counselor. A Greer counselor works with the students at the tech Center, and works with the community and the businesses in the community so that this tech of this counselor,  sees what jobs are available.  Goes back to the school, gets the students involved in in training and  placements or, short term training and it so that when those students leave the tech center, they are already  plugged in to the businesses in the community. We are delighted that both of these  items are in the budget.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So attracting, attracting and retaining great staff. As many of you, as many of you know, The demand for labor has increased due to probably the only number of factors,

[R15552-28] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; chair of the Parliamentary Procedure ad hoc commit | 2024-02-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: so that is in the budget. There will be some increases because of the fact that we are continuing through the life of the current contract, incrementally raising teacher wages. So that's part of one of the drivers of the increase of this year's budget.
TEXT> Finally, it's important to know that there are multiple factors that impact our budget that are completely out of the school board and the administration's control.  In particular, we are very dependent on state and federal funding. And according. Depending. On what the state decides. And  besides, it impacts what money we get and what money that local taxpayers are required to cough up to compensate for that.  This year we are facing  the Esser grant expiring that will expire in 2024. The answer grant has funded some of the positions in our district, some very few positions we are keeping and has also funded  some capital  projects. It is also funded our summer program. We also have in the education world  a lot of unfunded regulatory requirements.  I call these the government say and you pay.  We are required to provide services, but we are not given the money from federal or state resources to do that.  We also have increased costs in this community simply because of our demographics. We have  children with extreme socio economic  needs, need more supports. We also have zero control over what the tax assessment is. And everyone on this board is a taxpayer and we have been affected by the reassessment. And so I guess what I'm trying to say is we do feel your pain  in the budget. You'll also see reflected  the impact of  inflation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We are paying more for electricity supplies. Our dental and health insurance costs have increased and not this year, but in past years and possibly in future years, we could

[R15552-33] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (self-identified) | 2024-02-03
PREV> Mary Henry: are money that we spend and we receive back. So they were wash. So even though the total overall budget is 30 $39,582,407, that 3.4 million is money that we are actually getting in, as well as a revenue, which I'll touch upon later on.
TEXT> But I just want you to be aware of that. The next thing is we have our budget, which I will talk more about again later on in this presentation. But for the general budget, it's $35,000,906 and 70, excuse me, $906,774. Again, the default budget for your grants and food service and the same.  But this does not include the other Warren articles that are after this three, four and five. So this is a  summary of your expenses and services for fiscal year 25 budget in the different programs. So you have your regular education programs and special education programs. This includes all the items associated with general instruction. Then you have your vocational programs, which is your tech center and some of your CMS,  CMS tech courses as well at the middle school. Next one is Student Activities, which includes sports programs and after school activities. Then you have student services. Again, these are part of the day to day, school function of education. But it's like your guidance, your nurse psychology or psychologists. You get language occupational therapy and physical therapy. Now media technology includes your IT department and your media  library in each of the buildings.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So that would be your teacher that is in your, your library's staff development consists of the staff coaches, salaries and benefits and supplies. General administration is your school board.

[R15552-36] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (self-identified) | 2024-02-03
PREV> Mary Henry: of this whole budget, about 95% is contractual obligations. Or we have to have. So what I would exclude from that is your, postage, your advertising, your printing, your supplies. You need them, but they're not mandated, as, I guess, a way to put it.
TEXT> This next part is our estimated estimated revenues. As a school district, we have very few opportunities to generate revenues. The biggest one is tuition. If we have tuition, which I know the board is working hard to find ways to fill our classrooms with tuition students, which is money that comes to us. And again, we are adding staff. We are just getting money in, which is something that we really are trying to push for. I did also want to let you know that  the educational base adequacy aid for fiscal year 25 is $4,182. For fiscal year 24, the current year is $4,100. So the state increased it by $82. There's no way that we can educate a kid for $4,182. I'm sorry, it's just not possible. They do not include transportation. They do not include benefits. They do not include,  you have your retirement,  which again is mandated that we have to have,  which is 19.64% of all wages on teachers.  It's a little less for administrative staff. What even so that that's a lot of money.
NEXT> Mary Henry: This, again, is just a quick recap of where we stand and how much we raise locally compared to federal and state funding. I will say your federal and state

[R15552-50] Unidentified | School board member speaking from the floor as a voter in favor of Art | 2024-02-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Please be me. Please make sure to write your name and then state your name and word.
TEXT> I am. Speaking as a voter and a citizen. Even though I am a member of the board. I support this budget because I have no questions about it. The process to develop this budget within the Finance committee was transparent and professional. It was televised on CCTV and and regular and thorough reports were provided at each school board meeting, which was also televised on CCTV. And so I feel like there is  I have no questions because all of the information that I wanted to provide, either through the videos, do the questions that were answered and the reports that were given at the school board meeting or through the follow up that is giving from those questions at the school board meetings. I believe that this budget supports the districts and the board's stated goals to support teachers, students and families and improve outcomes in Claremont that are tied to public education. And I do not see how any planned expenditure is not necessary. In my opinion, this budget is thoughtful and efficient and forward thinking. I want to reiterate that this district and its budget exists within larger systems of society, government and finance. Those systems have a much greater impact on this district and its budget than the reverse, and oftentimes that does not feel fair.
NEXT> Unidentified: The greatest impact this district can have on those systems, in my opinion, is producing students who grow into healthy, knowledgeable, and goal oriented adults who will be the leaders

[R15552-94] Matt | Voter, Ward 1; Claremont School District paraprofessional and associat | 2024-02-03
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. And there's a second. Okay. Who would like to speak? Yes. And was up for this away, please? Yes.
TEXT> My name is Matt. I live in Ward one. I've lived in Claremont my entire life. I'm  a parent  and president. Of the. National Association of Taxpayer.  So I bear all the access that I have a haven't in everything for the last seven years of my life. I've been a paraprofessional for the Claremont School District. I don't think people will truly understand what parrot does every single day. It's not just wanted to be an aide in the classroom. We have a broad scale of responsibilities, skills, and titles. We are educators. We are de-escalation masters. We are interventionists. And I firmly believe that  is where more acts than any other position in the district. I truly believe it. Paraprofessional position is necessary in the classroom environment. Teachers are expected to provide a broad quality of education for many students with varying degrees of behavioral needs, lots of behaviors, mental health, special education, and just general learning needs. If if the teachers didn't have us there with them, they wouldn't be able to teach anything because they would be focused on like handling, putting out fires in the class all day. Unpaid does not adequately reflect the work that we do every day. It just doesn't. There's there is that there is over 60 parents within this district. As a group, we have lived for years listening to stories about how children that we work with go into the workforce and make more money. It's not.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: We we hear your passion, but we do have a two minute line.

[R15552-103] Charlene Lovett | Interim Moderator, Claremont School District (self-identified at 0:00: | 2024-02-03
PREV> Unidentified: steps for me. And I make a whopping 2456 an hour on 32 hours a week, and I have to work a second job. And I own a home. He bet in consideration when you go to vote and keep us in mind. Thank you.
TEXT> Is there anybody else? So I'm going to close the discussion, and this article will move forward to the ballot as amended. So that really concludes the deliberative session today. I want to say thank you very much for coming out, for taking the time to speak. And, and and to the school board administration for all of the work that they have done to bring us to this point. Please, please, please come out and vote on March 12th. Our average voting percentage for school board elections is  13 to 17% of our registered voters. If we want to move this community forward, we need to have a strong school system. So we need to have students have the opportunity to accept. So thank you for your time, for your patience, for your patience with me. And we'll make a motion to adjourn. So is there a motion to do that?
NEXT> Unidentified: I'd like to make a motion to adjourn. I'll second.

[R15580-26] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - appointed interim by this b | 2024-02-15
PREV> Chris Pratt: season. Continue to research recruitment tools to try to better prepare for the spring and summer. And for those of you who don't know, the starting usually in mid to late March is when really the hiring season starts and people start applying for jobs.
TEXT> So that's why we're really pushing for the the career phase, going and hosting our own and, streamline the open enrollment process, open room processes for like, medical insurance and stuff like that. So.  Special ed,  for programing reading. We have a reading intervention pilot that does not has been implemented. If successful, based on student growth, the intervention will be applied to Bluff and Maple. John Going saw curriculum and instruction work. Let's see staffing. Staffing is special. Ed continues to be a challenge. Just right now, not just for you six, but I think across the board that even before  Covid and everything, it's always difficult to find, special education teachers and,  technology. Jeff and crew continuing to install high end switches for the fiber win and through E-Rate funding and working on distributing of new staff laptops  that were purchased through Esther funding  the reviewing content, filter products, also ticket inventory systems and the ticket inventory systems is something that we're trying to do a better job of making sure all the schools and the teachers, when something comes up technology wise, they put a ticket in through the system to Jeff and his crew. Now it's documented the problems we're having, but also they're able to get to it in timely manner. So we're trying to make sure that we're doing that consistent,  working with PD training for staff that involves technology and,  curriculum and grants.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We have rolling out the math assessment tool, Diagnose Learning Gaps in Alliance to New Hampshire math standards for K-2, draft K-5 report card standards, and Ela to better communicate

[R15580-27] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - appointed interim by this b | 2024-02-15
PREV> Chris Pratt: and his crew. Now it's documented the problems we're having, but also they're able to get to it in timely manner. So we're trying to make sure that we're doing that consistent, working with PD training for staff that involves technology and, curriculum and grants.
TEXT> We have rolling out the math assessment tool, Diagnose Learning Gaps in Alliance to New Hampshire math standards for K-2, draft K-5 report card standards, and Ela to better communicate learning to parents. Math  is in progress. Currently  reviewing the math programs with the math committee  to choose one for next year. Also organizing school for New Hampshire SAS and SAT assessments and finalizing the academic calendar for next year. And we're working with the the union on that. And below you see a list of everything that was offered. And we did on January 23rd for professional development program. So it gives you a where it was and and what we did. So the board's aware of, you know, professional development wise what we're trying to do. With teachers for students. So that's above and beyond that. I've been getting meeting with the principals once a week in each of the buildings, so I'm able to meet with them. I have, once a week, also meetings with the various departments at the s o.  We've been working a lot on, been working a lot with the various policy committees. I think we're making some pretty good headway with that. It's been busy days. I think my marks one month. So here we are. The flew by.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Feels like three years.

[R15580-60] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; SAU 6 Board member; superintendent- | 2024-02-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. Right.
TEXT> So do we get student teachers. And I've had when I was working in. Guidance, I had several. Student teachers, school student guidance counselors worked with under my supervision.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We did that. We do. I mean, I can only speak from the high school right now. I know we had one. We had a student teacher counselor last year.

[R15580-61] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - appointed interim by this b | 2024-02-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: So do we get student teachers. And I've had when I was working in. Guidance, I had several. Student teachers, school student guidance counselors worked with under my supervision.
TEXT> We did that. We do. I mean, I can only speak from the high school right now. I know we had one. We had a student teacher counselor last year. Yeah. And but I don't see in my time at the high school, I didn't see too many student teachers within the district, period. No, but we welcome them. So anyone who wants to join us for getting their stuff done for student teaching, you know, it's a great place to get it done.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well and put in the door. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.

[R15580-63] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board Chair; Claremont School Board member - presides thro | 2024-02-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well and put in the door. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
TEXT> And piggybacking on that, I'm wondering if by attending job fairs, there is an opportunity to network with those supervisors, with student teachers and letting them know if people are students are living in a reasonable distance. We can have them as student teachers if we have cooperating teachers.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think it's something I want to add to a bucket list and, you know, have Angela reach out to colleges and form that relationship with the different education departments.

[R15580-64] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - appointed interim by this b | 2024-02-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm wondering if by attending job fairs, there is an opportunity to network with those supervisors, with student teachers and letting them know if people are students are living in a reasonable distance. We can have them as student teachers if we have cooperating teachers.
TEXT> I think it's something I want to add to a bucket list and, you know, have Angela reach out to colleges and form that relationship with the different education departments. Right. Like Keene State and stuff like that. So everyone's looking to do their student teaching practicum, you know, would be more than willing to work with them on that because I know last year with for the the student teacher council we had she was fantastic. And you know, we would have offered to the job. But she was moving back home to close to the family. But it's a great opportunity to get your foot in the door and possibly have long term employment for anyone who's looking for a student teaching.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: That's great. Thanks for bringing that up. Heather was the Terra consulting.

[R15580-82] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board Chair - MERGED SEGMENT: the chair's request for a Ju | 2024-02-15
PREV> Mary Henry: the encumbrances are for. So are there encumbrances. For example, when I was a principal I knew what my budget was and I knew that I had budgeted for something, but I wasn't able to get it or pay for it until the year ended.
TEXT> So I encumbered those funds. Yes. And that's what happens here. Yeah. So that's what I'm asking. If we can have that listing in June, along with any transfers and rationales to transfers that were made through the year. Okay. And I will say to you, I like people to buy their stuff  well before the end of the year, because to me, the point of buying or budgeting is for the current fiscal year, right? Sometimes there are items where they may be, there may be none, but I gotcha. Thank you. You do that. Thank you. I appreciate that very much. Any other questions or comments from the board? Again, thank you for your work on getting this report. I appreciate it. Yes, very much sir. Moving on to item number two, the personnel update. I understand that we're going to be looking for a director of Student services, and that you're looking for a board representative to be on that new. Okay. Is there anyone on the board who's interested in being on that committee? Don't. All set.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: At the level.

[R15580-118] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board Chair; Claremont School Board member - presides thro | 2024-02-15
PREV> Kelly Simpson: We'll go with Rocco.
TEXT> Any discussion on the policy? All those in favor of accepting the first read of policy and moving into second read and adoption? All those in favor pose any abstentions. Policies moving to second reading and hopefully about the next policy is in fact, a new policy. Policy GBCD. This is background investigations and criminal history records. Check. The rationale for this policy is that it reverses some legislation about state responsibility for criminal history records, checks, as well as prohibiting employment or appointment. Any volunteers who have had their credentials revoked or are under current suspension. It's a really good policy in terms of conducting background checks and criminal history, criminal records, checks. We'll see in red the areas that we have blacked out, crossed out, mostly because they refer to students or schools, and the SA has no responsibility towards schools or students. Each local district should definitely update their policy or implement a policy if you don't have them. The it identifies the section five offenses, which are the most notorious, where we cannot hire people who have been convicted under those. We also exit out the areas dealing with volunteers and students. And it's basically the changes that we have made to make this an s a policy. Any questions? Frank.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Make a motion. We adopt this policy. Yeah.

[R15585-13] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/11/2024, effecti | 2024-02-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: I have. So I just move it to that agenda meeting. So we're just trying to keep a good line of communication in regards to all the principals. It gets me into the building, not just to see the principal, but other people as well.
TEXT> So it's been  some other updates we have is that,  we're in the process of interviewing for  Ben's replacement for the director of student services, a special ed, and the it's just a change in title at one point is director of special ed, but the new,  lingo that's being used, as is director of student services, that's the the new words that tying to it doesn't really change what they do. It's just the change in the title to be more,  reflect, you know, what they do and not so labeling. So we're, we're we're in the process of interviewing for the director of student services. Also, we're,  we posted for the director of. Human resources. Been a long day, human resources. And so,  we're getting some really good applicants, and we're hoping to conduct some of those interviews next week once we know the interview schedule. I would love to have, you know, any board members who  would like to serve on that committee.  One. Two. Three.  I think it's an important position in that you're you might have some good questions and look at it from a different angle than us as administrators do. So I open that invitation out to any board members who want to be a part of that.  Let's see.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. So, you know, that's it for the the report. And Michael is going to get into some of the actual benchmarking data later on. And so moving ahead with

[R15585-19] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> I'm going to echo what Mr. Sprague has said. And especially for me looking at the elementary school reports, the data, one of the schools has their school goals with actual measurable goals in terms of data. And another school showed the student progress from the fall to the spring of last year. And it's the numbers are great and it's informative. And I and I think it's good not only for us, but also for the principals to have that opportunity to meld with each other and talk to each other about how they're they're doing and the success that they're seeing. So thank you very much for this information. I concur too.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I just having these updates is it's really informative and helps us get a sense of each school and what their focus on and how they're delivering services. So thank

[R15585-30] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Absolutely.
TEXT> And the board to see what the priorities are and what the recurring themes are. Right. And it will really help keep us focused. So thank you. Just want to echo that. Any other questions for. Mr. Pratt. Before we move on to the  discussion and action items, I just want to give a shout out to Coach Fitzpatrick and  our bowling team who are state champions. This is. A state champions three. Times in the last four years. And our seniors are that are leaving us this year are Tyler or Christian Ethan say Amen and Cody Pellerin. And we have actually had  folks from the bowling team go on to get scholarships to college. There are bowling scholarships. So, this is good. This is really good stuff. Yeah. So  we're going to move into our action and discussion items in. The first item on the agenda is will be a presentation from Miss Charlene, who reached out to the board  to present a great opportunity for our senior students.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you, Chair Whitney. I'm very happy to be here. Those of you who do may or may not know me, I am a Stevens High School alum, 22 year

[R15585-31] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: really good stuff. Yeah. So we're going to move into our action and discussion items in. The first item on the agenda is will be a presentation from Miss Charlene, who reached out to the board to present a great opportunity for our senior students.
TEXT> Thank you, Chair Whitney. I'm very happy to be here. Those of you who do may or may not know me, I am a Stevens High School alum, 22 year Army veteran, and a current member of post 29 American Legion here in Claremont. And our commander, Steve Blish, had hoped to be here this evening, but he's feeling unwell, so he was unable to accompany me, opening the door to new opportunities for high school students is a goal that many of us, if not all of us, share. Not too long ago, the post  29, the membership voted to sponsor students high school students here at Stevens who are accepted to any of the summer programs at the military academies to sponsor them up to $1,000, which would include  admission to the summer program, as well as travel costs, again up to $1,000. These are one week,  residential total immersion type summer programs at the academies. You have fact sheets that that were included in your packet. We didn't include the Air Force Academy only because their application window is closed. It will reopen in December. So the programs, the summer programs that these academies differ somewhat.  West point and the Coast Guard both offer a one week program to rising seniors. So these are students who are going from their junior year to their senior year in that summer.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And these are both designed to introduce, rising seniors to what education might be like at a military academy. As we all know, military academy educations are high quality and

[R15585-32] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: December. So the programs, the summer programs that these academies differ somewhat. West point and the Coast Guard both offer a one week program to rising seniors. So these are students who are going from their junior year to their senior year in that summer.
TEXT> And  these are both designed to introduce, rising seniors to what education might be like at a military academy. As we all know, military academy educations are high quality and free, so that's a good thing.  The Naval Academy is very different in that it is designed, yes, to introduce students to  what an education at a military academy would be like. But it is designed for rising freshman, sophomore and junior. And it is an introduction into  what Stem. So those students that are interested in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, this is a program where they have their faculty from the Naval Academy teaching these students different, ideas, and they do a lot of hands on projects. So real application. And they also take them to on field trips. So it's it's a different type of program. The leadership provided  through the one week course is done by the cadets. They're the midshipmen. But that's so that's how they different. So again the Naval Academy is for rising freshmen sophomores and juniors. The other two academies are for rising seniors. The application window is currently open for all three academies.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Again, the Air Force Academy closed. So we're just talking about West Point Coast Guard and Naval Academy. West point closes on March 15th. The Coast Guard closes on April

[R15585-33] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: is done by the cadets. They're the midshipmen. But that's so that's how they different. So again the Naval Academy is for rising freshmen sophomores and juniors. The other two academies are for rising seniors. The application window is currently open for all three academies.
TEXT> Again, the Air Force Academy closed. So we're just talking about West Point Coast Guard and Naval Academy. West point closes on March 15th. The Coast Guard closes on April 1st, and then the Naval Academy closes on April 15th. So, we have had a long history at Stevens High School of people who have attended military academies. Some of the people that you might know today are Derrick Ferland. He was a  Air Force Academy graduate. William Race, I don't know if you're familiar with him, but he was a  Stevens High School graduate that went to the Naval Academy and became nationally and internationally known because he was on the rowing team that competed at the at the international level. So these are just a few of our own people who've gone to military academies. And I'm hoping that by getting the word out, we did an interview with Doctor Herzog on Along the River  that included me as well as my daughter Marion, because she she actually attended the  summer program at Naval Academy, and she was able to talk about her experience from a first person account. So I'm hoping I really hope that people,  students at the high school take advantage of of this.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Again, this is a sponsorship provided by post 29, up to $1,000 to cover the cost of admission, which can range between 600 and $25 to 750 depending on where

[R15585-34] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Charlene Lovett: daughter Marion, because she she actually attended the summer program at Naval Academy, and she was able to talk about her experience from a first person account. So I'm hoping I really hope that people, students at the high school take advantage of of this.
TEXT> Again, this is a sponsorship provided by post 29,  up to $1,000 to cover the cost of admission, which can range between 600 and $25 to 750 depending on where they go, as well as  travel costs. Again, a total of up to 1000 per accepted student. Any questions? Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just a point. There used to be a photo in the administration. When I was, working at Stevens. There was a photo in the athletic director area administrative area of

[R15585-44] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Pretty extraordinary.
TEXT> So what we're hoping to do with this opportunity is one, you know, we're trying one. We're trying to encourage, you know, interest in what a military academy might have to offer. But more than that is to really give our high school students an opportunity to see something and experience something that they they have not experienced before. We are, you know, we do not live next to a post base or anything of a military type organization. So unless a student has family that has served in the military,  they really have never been exposed to what that is like. And, you know, it's a wonderful way to feel it out, to see if it would work for that student without going to actually go through the process of getting accepted to academy, and then finally finding out in your freshman year that maybe this was a mistake, you know, that's not what you want to do. So and again, you know, these academies are top rated schools across the nation. And I can't I can't imagine what better experience than to have a Stem type project topped by a faculty member at the Naval Academy.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is there an opportunity for you to go talk to the juniors?

[R15585-64] Charlene Lovett | Presenter to the board on behalf of American Legion Post 29, Claremont | 2024-02-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: So our.
TEXT> And I'd like to add, when I was in high school, we had the recruiting offices downtown on what was then Tremont Square. Am I understanding is there's very minimal interaction now with any recruiters coming into the high school and the high school students, if they're not ready to talk about a topic, you know, they're really not interested. If the recruiter comes and visits one day in six months. I mean, that's not how you're going to encourage students to think about that pathway as an option. So,  I just want to say I'm always available to anybody who wants to ask questions. And,  the post did  appoint me as the liaison between the post and the high school, so I'm happy to work with any anybody.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R15585-103] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So so my only my only concern is that we're funding overages in other areas due to the fact that we have unfilled positions. That's worrisome to me.
TEXT> I don't disagree with you. I don't disagree, but like I said, out of district expenses are something that we haven't got control over and we don't know what's going to happen.  So if we have to send a student out of district that we didn't budget for that, that that tends to be the place that I look at. And then I'm thankful that we've had areas where we haven't filled. But you're right. I don't disagree with you, Frank.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Crawford.

[R15585-147] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: I don't I don't mean to interrupt me off, Mike.
TEXT> That's okay. I like to be in that spotlight. Yeah. No. Not really. That's why I do numbers. Because I don't have to be in the spotlight.  Yes. So for you to reduce, as of right now, we had roughly 628 kids that qualified this year for free and reduced.  What shifted within our numbers is our population was more free than reduced than it has been in the past. Looking at the numbers, we did come in under where we were before last year, we had roughly 730 kids. So we're we are down. But I do believe part of it again, I go back to income and it's,  it it's just a shift. It's a shift right now. And and the thing is, we're still converting from Covid. You know, I think next year's numbers will be better. They.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Have higher or lower.

[R15585-149] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Have higher or lower.
TEXT> Because I think. They'll be hot. No, no, I think they'll be higher. But, you know, again, I, I do believe they'll be higher. I think that the, that's what I'm looking for.  If you looked at the shift right now, we have more kids in the high school and in the middle school that have qualified than we do in the lower grades, which is unusual. Unusual?  Especially at the high school. You know, usually that's one of the places you don't get the most kids. But we got the most kids there. Yeah. For free and reduced, which.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We did. We pushed that really high last year.

[R15585-203] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District (started July 2023)  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: them to get. Does that happen? Because I feel like I, I feel like people have said that on like social media, that they're like, I've called the office and called the office to try and get it. So is that a thing that happens?
TEXT> It does, but we cannot tell students. We cannot deny a student a meal, and we can't tell them they have to have something else.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Right? That's a conversation the parents have to have with their child saying.

[R15585-204] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/11/2024, effecti | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mary Henry: It does, but we cannot tell students. We cannot deny a student a meal, and we can't tell them they have to have something else.
TEXT> Right? That's a conversation the parents have to have with their child saying.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Believe me, I don't get lunch.

[R15585-261] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> And, and but then by the time we get to fourth and fifth that that decline continues. But still we're seeing growth from  fall to winter. It's a little stickier in fourth and fifth grade than it is in those earlier grades. You know, if you if you look at grade one, there's huge. Kindergarten and kindergarten, right. It's great.  And that's as it should be, right? Kids are basically coming in with very little knowledge for the most part, most. And they're learning to read but three letter words before they leave kindergarten.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.

[R15585-278] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And now the.
TEXT> Program is in place. How we attacking it and. Yeah. It's a this this does. And we could break this down to student level in the classroom level. I'm not going to show you that, but it's it's enough so that we can teachers can address it by.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: You can analyze it.

[R15585-293] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. What tools do you use to identify the reasons for those inconsistencies at the school level?
TEXT> Right. So, one of the things we do is this is where the teacher evaluation system comes in. And so more frequent observations will help.  For reading, we are currently testing every two weeks those students who are behind grade level. So we get a very tight measure of their growth. And and so every two weeks there's like a five question test nonsense words or how quickly can you read a paragraph and that information is recorded. And then teachers look and say, okay, we're still we can be three areas. This is what we attack for the next two weeks. And so we're  along with this benchmark system. We have some pretty tight data collection to be able to attack things more quickly.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And when did that new data collection system go into place?

[R15585-297] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's a new it's a new tool.
TEXT> And now we're going to next  we're going to begin this spring practicing with a math assessment that does the same thing. So it's a quick it's a two minute assessment takes place really quickly. Flash it back and forth on an iPad, collect your data, you get to analyze it. And so you get a really tight data window to be able to move kids along. And very specific issues or areas of concern.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And and it gives relevant, up to date information to that teacher about how effective the last two weeks has been. Yes. Which is very helpful.

[R15585-306] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So when you talk about the tight window and assessing very specific experiences for the students, when the teacher sees that it's not the growth is not there as much. With whom does that teacher meet or how does that sure change.
TEXT> Yeah. So one  the first place would be in the classroom and you create some small groups, the elementary level, and you work in those small groups. And just here I need to do this with this group. This is another group. Then after that we get into title services for students who can't have those needs met at the classroom level. And then it would be special education services.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So the title one is that pullout or is the title one teacher in the room. Both. Okay.

[R15585-311] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/11/2024, effecti | 2024-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> And I think it's important to note also, is that with what we're doing, it really gets into the personalized instruction for student if need to. And if you notice, you know the colors. You know the green, the yellow and the red. But it also correlates with the Department of Tiers of Instruction as well that, you know,  tier one is  all in the classroom. To two is the yellow, where, you know, it gets a little bit more, and then you have tier three, which is, you know, the high intense, you know, special education services stuff. So they're all kind of intertwined. But like I said, what's good about this is that it gives teachers the information they need to go down into the individual student if they need to, to meet that student where they are. So it proves on instructional practices to and I think that's, that's that's progress.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: In April we did. Have a presentation. I think Stephanie was with you at that time and touched on the fact that we have an issue with tier one teaching.

[R15585-312] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: what's good about this is that it gives teachers the information they need to go down into the individual student if they need to, to meet that student where they are. So it proves on instructional practices to and I think that's, that's that's progress.
TEXT> In April we did. Have a presentation. I think Stephanie was with you at that time and  touched on the fact that we have an issue with tier one teaching. And, so where are we there with that? And how do you evaluate that independently of what's happening at the student? Sure.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So, and this goes to kind of an instructional question. And, I it's just a term that kind of describes the practice that we can offer students more low floor,

[R15585-313] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think Stephanie was with you at that time and touched on the fact that we have an issue with tier one teaching. And, so where are we there with that? And how do you evaluate that independently of what's happening at the student? Sure.
TEXT> So, and this goes to kind of an instructional question. And,  I it's just a term that kind of describes the practice that we can offer students more low floor, high ceiling types of problems. Low floor, meaning no matter where you are, you can access it and begin the problem. And then you can take it to the extent that you can take it. And so this this next slide. It's almost like you set up the question. We did. This is not.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Not a plant.

[R15585-315] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: Not a plant.
TEXT> Just a third grade area question. You know which angle which rectangle has a greater area. There's kind of one answer, maybe 2 or 3 ways to approach the problem, but it doesn't extend your learning to far beyond some basic understandings of area. A  low floor, high ceiling question would be something along the lines of here's how much fencing I have. If I want to maximize the area for my horse or my dog, or I want to make a run so my dog can sprint. How am I going to arrange the fencing and how much area is that going to give the dog? And and so we can and then we can extend that problem. If a student answers it quickly somebody knows. Oh. Squares fence in the greatest area. Oh well what would be the best area for sprinting or what would be the best area for play?  And so the more we can move our instruction to these types of questions that let everybody participate, no matter where they start. But everybody grows in trying to answer it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: In the in the basic, in the traditional classroom setting. In the day. To. Day classroom setting.

[R15585-319] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: were a lot of the energy was teaching at the low level questions and middle kids in the kids that are a little bit more farther along were not being challenged enough. So I hope what it sounds like is this is attacking that problem.
TEXT> Yes. Right. Yeah.  And so I think you can, can probably think of ways you could do this in science. You can do it in, in English. And if, if you had vocabulary words you had to incorporate into or just we're trying to learn vocabulary words. Well, we can write a paragraph with them instead of just learning definitions or, or we can create in some other situation a type of writing, incorporate those vocabulary words and or use these vocabularies to describe this piece of art. Yeah. You know there's ways that everybody can get in on the lesson no matter where you start. And then you can take it. Kind of kids can take it as far as they can. So we're kind of moving in this instruction into this instructional practice.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And the students aren't locked in at that, you know, low floor or they they're wherever they may be. They've got that fluidity. Right. Thank you.

[R15585-320] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mike Koski: know there's ways that everybody can get in on the lesson no matter where you start. And then you can take it. Kind of kids can take it as far as they can. So we're kind of moving in this instruction into this instructional practice.
TEXT> And the students aren't locked in at that, you know, low floor or they they're wherever they may be. They've got that fluidity. Right. Thank you.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. The challenge as a teacher is you don't know where this is going. Right. You give up control right of the discussion. And you've got to be kind of

[R15585-322] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mike Koski: don't know where this is going. Right. You give up control right of the discussion. And you've got to be kind of light on your feet to be ready for what's coming. And it may go in a direction you had not anticipated at all.
TEXT> But it's making the student be the worker at the students is working. Right. And that's what we need.
NEXT> Mike Koski: The student is the producer, right, instead of the consumer.

[R15585-323] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: But it's making the student be the worker at the students is working. Right. And that's what we need.
TEXT> The student is the producer, right, instead of the consumer.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R15585-327] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-02-21
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah. And, you know, you could easily work that into all the questions, right?
TEXT> Then you get the parent phone call. My child wants a dog. They laid out the backyard.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Are you doing building a fence? For what? The dog I'm gonna get. My teacher said I could. Right.

[R15585-352] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: The place. I didn't know that was so much fun. Thank you.
TEXT> All right, so this is the same. I ready benchmark the students who attended summer school. We used their scores from the spring of the year prior. They attended summer camp, and then we used their scores in the fall after summer camp.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Oh, so spring is the earlier. Right.

[R15585-354] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh, so spring is the earlier. Right.
TEXT> So here. Spring is early.  Fall is later.  And so we have  a red and blue lines. Each letter across the bottom is a different student. And so that's the reason there's no pattern to the graph. What we're looking for is distance between the blue and red lines. We would like to see the red higher than the.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Blue showing regression.

[R15585-370] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Here we are in second grade. Yes. And so we see a little bit of distance between the red and the blue. But again we're still  well below the 50th percentile. Right. Mark. Second grade math. Much better scores. And we see some students who have improved. We see some students who haven't. Some some have regrets. But we're much closer in this group to  national norms. And so that may make a difference in the  impact of summer school. Look at the 30. Again we don't select which summer camp. It's open rolling. Here are those reading scores. And now we're starting to see some separation. Yeah. All inclusive approval. And we have students who are way up, up near the thousand mark well above national norms. Third grade math. A little bit different, but but again, we're we're much more around national norms. Fourth grade. Big jumps from spring to fall and reading. In math. Not quite so much.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So what was the story with grade one?

[R15585-391] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION, twice: 'Moving  | 2024-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Yeah. Right.
TEXT> I think as as the older students are more used to being in a classroom, they seem to have had a greater impact. I think overall, most of our teachers are better at teaching reading than teaching math. They they just tends to be based on your college experience that that's a greater emphasis than the math instruction. And so,  as we as we improve our math professional development, I think we'll we'll see those math scores move more.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Very interesting.

[R15585-616] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023); Finance Committee | 2024-02-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: to what we're really talking about. And there was also some data about jobs, and pay scales and, demand. And we had many different community people, business leaders on the calls and say, hey, wait a minute, that's a little skewed, that that's not reasonable.
TEXT> So these these zoom meetings were validating the data that the SRM was putting together for  analysis for our situation.  So that's what those were.  And, and I thought it was important for you folks to know that these three meetings took place and they involved, you know, 16 to 20  people from the community. Each of the three nights,  following up,  March 27th, 28th and 29th  will be the on site visits. 2 or 3 people from shred will come to Claremont, interview students, business leaders, school administrators, etc.  to again  look at the data to gather data. No, I said that wrong. Gather data. And right, right. And so that's when  they will be on site in Claremont doing the analysis.  So after that then, late May June is when the full report will be due and S will present its findings to the visiting committee and to the school board during a virtual presentation. It will be in person, but it will be virtual. And what their results were, what their findings were, what their recommendations are. That will be happening in late May,  early June and then further actions,  after we have that result from sRGB, then  we'll need to do an architectural assessment  of the building. This building. And  there is one architectural firm in the state that all the tech centers use for analysis.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And they, they could do it, in the September period of time. If they did it in September, then they could have a report for November. Estimated cost for what?

[R15607-1] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: have before us, and the approval of our January or February 21st, 2024 minutes. Is there anyone who wishes to object to moving forward? Seeing none, the items on the consent agenda move forward. Next we're going to open the floor up to non-agenda items.
TEXT> Citizens comments per policy BEDH. Is there anyone in the audience that would like to speak that not related to the public hearing or an agenda item? Seeing none, we're going to close citizens comments. We're going to move next to  report from our  student board members.  Our two representatives are Nicole Bouchard and Kylie Plummer. Was anybody like to move forward?
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: Hello. I just want to say thank you for having me. It's been a few months, and I'm glad to be back. It's the first thing I want to talk

[R15607-2] Nicole Bouchard | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: not related to the public hearing or an agenda item? Seeing none, we're going to close citizens comments. We're going to move next to report from our student board members. Our two representatives are Nicole Bouchard and Kylie Plummer. Was anybody like to move forward?
TEXT> Hello. I just want to say thank you for having me. It's been a few months, and I'm glad to be back. It's the first thing I want to talk about was bringing in the bystander. Bringing in the bystander is a group at Stevens High School that raises awareness to abuse in relationships and how to prevent it. And what happens if you're faced with that situation? It has been gaining a lot of members, and I think that's really fantastic. In January, Noises Off was performed at the Claremont Opera House, which is something that the theater department hasn't done in over ten years. Nice Noises Off included a rotating two story set. It was colossal. It was wonderful. Recently, the band inside the musical department. It formed an ensemble band with six student members. They performed on Valentine's Day at multiple businesses, including Healthy Connections, The Barn Cafe, and Tavern on the square. A few months ago, we had a band member get into Allstate for the first time in a very long time. I'll say nice. Allstate is a band competition where you audition and if you get in, you perform in a big concert.
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: We had Joshua Patron get to Maine, Allstate and Lily Egan get into Ensemble Allstate. The last thing I want to talk about was concerns of the eight block schedule

[R15607-3] Nicole Bouchard | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2024-03-06
PREV> Nicole Bouchard: the square. A few months ago, we had a band member get into Allstate for the first time in a very long time. I'll say nice. Allstate is a band competition where you audition and if you get in, you perform in a big concert.
TEXT> We had Joshua Patron get to Maine, Allstate and Lily Egan get into Ensemble Allstate. The last thing I want to talk about was concerns of the eight block schedule for next year. Most student concerns are about getting adequate information and knowledge before it happening. I do have concerns about credits and the 27, 23 and 20 diplomas because I believe that it would be harder to reach and kind of just be more on that.
NEXT> Kylie Plummer: Hello. It's been a while. I'm sure as many of you know, there's a block schedule proposed for the high school. Many of our high school students are concerned for

[R15607-221] Frank Sprague | Vice chair, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the finance subcommit | 2024-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: the way to sell this is, particularly from my point of view, having looked at data over the years as far as kneecap, knee app, kneecap, and then SATs, SATs, in math, for example, the gap was always when we drill down in a block.
TEXT> Was that long period of time sort of the hurry up and wait syndrome where kids would take an advanced math in middle school, and then by the time they took the test as juniors, they they may have taken the geometry first semester as a freshman. And now I'm taking a test as a as a second semester junior. And that geometry has long gone.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. I mean, initially, you know, we started looking at this because what the data was telling us, you know, our test scores, weren't all that great. The dropout rate

[R15607-228] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's clarifying.
TEXT> Yeah. I don't I don't think it's a universal thing that I would say that works better everywhere because it doesn't. And, you know, four years from now when we have a whole new group of kids in Stephen's high school, you know, it's worth going back and revisiting because we constantly have to go back and review the data and what the data is telling us. I think so many times we get stuck up on routines and and being complacent that we forget that every four years we have a whole new group of students in there. But what we're seeing right now, in the past, since I've been here the past two and a half years, the data is telling us that blocks aren't working. And I'm not saying periods. The period schedule is going to fix all, and it's not going to benefit all students. But the majority of students, when you look at the dropout rate, our test scores, time on instruction, this is you know, I feel that based on the data, that's what the data is telling us right now.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I appreciate you giving us the data and making the choice relative to the data in our data, in our situation. I think that's really helpful. I think whenever there's

[R15607-230] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024, the nig | 2024-03-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: think those are opportunities, you know, whether you stay or whether you change, there are going to be issues that have to be fixed. And, I think relying on the data as it applies to our population is extremely important, and I appreciate that input.
TEXT> No. Thank you. I you know, I don't think we would have been looking at a period schedule, but we had long conversations as a faculty and staff and administration at the high school, and everyone agreed that the 90 minutes are just too long right now. I mean, you you kids are out. More bathroom breaks and their bathroom breaks. Other things happen and stuff. So like I said, it's strictly based on the data we're seeing at Stevens High School. You know, because I know block schedules do work at other schools. And this we may have to look at it in another four years based on the the data where we're seeing then. But for now, I think, you know, it's not going to fix everything, but we have to go with what the data tells us and it's all leaning towards, you know, should a period as.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's going.

[R15607-236] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (chair from 4/5/2023 through the 3/12/20 | 2024-03-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Thank you.
TEXT> We build this into a,  an agenda, maybe in the next month or so  where we can allow a significant period of time at the board level and be able to offer opportunities for parents and concern students to even weigh in or ask questions that they might not have a forum.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Or I think it's a good idea because, we're all trying to figure this out together and, you know, you want to hear the people who are for it. You

[R15607-260] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: It speaks to the need for the healthy relationships education that we're doing and that we're so grateful to have so many strong partnerships in all of the schools here in Claremont, so that we can work to impact those numbers and change those numbers.
TEXT> Question 23 is an adult or person at least five years older than you ever made? You do sexual things that you didn't want to, right? And it says here counting such things as kissing, touching, or being made to have sexual intercourse, right? 8.6% of students  from Stevens answered yes to that question. Right. So you may you can see at the top here it says domestic violence, DV dating violence. That's teen it's TV teen dating violence. That's what that acronym stands for.  And then the third question really speaks to child sexual abuse, right? Those are all primary issues that Turning Points Network provides support to people around. And they are core to the work that we're doing in the schools. So this question here now is looking at sexual violence over the course of the lifetime, as well as the past year. Have you ever been physically forced to have sexual intercourse when you did not want to? Right. That's question 22, right. And you can compare you can see that data as it compares to Sullivan County as well as the state.  And then looking at the last year, right during the past 12 months.
NEXT> Kerry Rochford: So I want to go back for a second and just look at this one here, because I was kind of interested in when we put all of those, if

[R15607-264] Kerry Rochford | Prevention educator, Turning Points Network (Sullivan County's crisis  | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: are the factors that promote resilience. We have been really excited at the high school level to be working on some student leadership projects. One of them is bringing in The Bystander, which is a program that focuses on teaching young people positive bystander skills.
TEXT> And we've had such a great response to that that we actually, for the first time, have a program that grew out of that. So we have kind of tiered, positive bystander work that's happening at Stevens first time that that's happened, and that is staff there that are committed to making sure it can happen. Students who want to be part of positive change. Right. And the school being willing to partner with a local agency to really have an impact on the school  climate. It's wonderful to be able to elevate student voices in that way. And then we also offer workshops for the community. Right. And we're looking at trying to help offer more of those so that we can bring the community into this as well, not only school staff and students, but how do we bring the community into the conversations around healthy relationships and abuse prevention? And as I said, definitely more. There's increased awareness and knowledge around the effects of trauma  and what we can be doing together to have a positive impact there. And I think that might be my cue to pass it over to Taylor.
NEXT> Taylor Luke: To pass it back.

[R15607-270] Taylor Luke | Youth program specialist, TLC Family Resource Center - SELF-IDENTIFIES | 2024-03-06
PREV> Taylor Luke: up between female and males. So for Stephens we're showing 37.8% for female. For males it is 29.9. And for the county we're right at that 37.8 for the males. The county is a little higher. State 30.6 and then males 28 for question 60.
TEXT> How old were you when you first had sexual intercourse for the first time. And this is going to be in reference to sexual intercourse before the age of 13 for steamboats, for Stephens, sorry, females 4.7%. The males don't have anything because the number was too low for the county, 3.0 for females, 2.2 for males, state, 2.1 for female and for males 2.4. So on that sexual intercourse before the age of 13, Stephens is looking a little bit higher for the female side. And then finally, question 63. Did you drink alcohol or use drugs before you had sexual intercourse? The last time  among students who were currently sexually active?  For females, it was 17.2. Males once again were not  rated. But for the counties 13.6 for females, males  21, state 18.6, and  for males for state 19.2. So as you can see, Stephens is rather high as far as females that have participated in drinking alcohol or using drugs before sexual intercourse. And that's where we're going to kind of leeway into our Shine curriculum and why we think that is so important in the schools as well as the vaping curriculum. But really looking at these questions, why, you know, we want to get in there and have that curriculum and what it is. So I'm going to let me explain it.
NEXT> Taylor Luke: But I will stand up for questions that you have about vaping because I do teach that one. But, it was my first time teaching it with Carey for some.

[R15607-275] Taylor Luke | Youth program specialist, TLC Family Resource Center - SELF-IDENTIFIES | 2024-03-06
PREV> Kerry Rochford: this curriculum does not do that. We don't show scary pictures and everybody is together because we know that everybody needs this information regardless of their gender, regardless of their sexual orientation. So that's one of the things that we also appreciate about this curriculum.
TEXT> And I don't think I mentioned this, but if I did forgive me, we are actually currently teaching both of these curriculums at the tech right now,  and it's going really well. So,  you know, sometimes you walk into a classroom and you're not sure  how the students are going to feel about topics like this that may come off as somewhat uncomfortable or something that they don't want to talk about because they've gotten in trouble for something, whether it be like dating in the past or something like that. But the questions don't stop.  And we have really great conversations  surrounding both of these topics. So I just kind of wanted to report that back, that, it really is being well respected and we're having a really, really good time teaching it. We hope to continue it. So finish out Scott.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R15607-296] Mr. Kennedy | Claremont Middle School staff member who built the eighth-grade Fenway | 2024-03-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: when they head out on this trip. I'm going to let Mr. Kennedy do most of the talking. He has worked just tirelessly with a whole bunch of folks at CMS and the work they put in. So I think this is your stage, man.
TEXT> What's really exciting to report to you is, I don't know, but at seems,  as you said, stay close to the link. Sorry. At CMS, instead of. Study hall, we have enrichment where we have some flexibility on what we do. And we actually the students did a lot of the planning for this trip, which is what  made a lot really exciting.  So in effort to give students voice and choice, we created a plan a trip once a week enrichment class. Students brainstormed. They set a budget or a target budget. Then they researched potential day trips. After that, we came up with, I believe, 3 or 4 different trips. One of them was this Stem day. They then pulled all of the eighth graders and the eighth graders. The majority spoke that they wanted to do Stem Day at Fenway.  It is an educational initiative that sponsored in a heavily subsidized by Moderna. So the cost is quite low at $17 per person. That includes workshops, NASA's headlining workshops that day,  and then includes a matinee game between the Red Sox and the Braves. Any questions?
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[R15607-304] Mr. Kennedy | Claremont Middle School staff member who built the eighth-grade Fenway | 2024-03-06
PREV> Unidentified: Did you? Yeah. I'm sorry. Very good.
TEXT> So it's about 4000 annually for students across New England. Go to this Stem day. And there is our trip itinerary. We leave at 615 in the morning. We get back between 830 9:00 at night.  We're going to do a group photo at Boston Public Gardens. Make way for the ducklings. Oh, yeah. And then we go off to Fenway for the morning workshops. We break for lunch into groups of ten, so it would be roughly a 10 to 1 ratio to student to chaperon ratio. First pitch, 135.  We'll leave Fenway about 430. Arrive at Dave and Buster's for dinner.  We have something called the Epic Quest, which is a  it's like a scavenger hunt where they're playing games and they're like, doing all this very collaborative interpersonal stuff. They'll be in groups of ten and competing against one another as teams.  And then they'll have dinner there as well.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's true. Whoops. That's really good.

[R15607-307] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the school board policy subcom | 2024-03-06
PREV> Mr. Kennedy: As Mr. Romeo said, it's I believe it's almost entirely grant funded and that the want to give a shout out to the parents who did a lot of work in fundraising as well. We had a really good turnout. Great. Great parents. Any questions?
TEXT> How many students. Do you think have never done something like this before to Boston and do all these things?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, I think.

[R15607-312] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023; re-elected unoppos | 2024-03-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So how many how many students are going on this trip?
NEXT> Mr. Kennedy: Well, what's the total? We about 115.

[R15607-315] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023; re-elected unoppos | 2024-03-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: Yeah. 115. So, I want to step in this. As long as they follow the contract in which we have lined out. Right. We're hoping all of them are going, but roughly, we're they usually take anywhere between about 107115 will be enough.
TEXT> And what's the cost per student.
NEXT> Mr. Kennedy: So I think I'll calculator real.

[R15607-317] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - NAMED FROM THE PODIUM BESIDE HIM: | 2024-03-06
PREV> Mr. Kennedy: So I think I'll calculator real.
TEXT> Yeah. We'd have to do the the overall calculation for what it actually cost per student.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And I'm hoping that there's a provision for scholarship if the student can't.

[R15607-318] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023; re-elected unoppos | 2024-03-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: Yeah. We'd have to do the the overall calculation for what it actually cost per student.
TEXT> And I'm hoping that there's a provision for scholarship if the student can't.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: We always allow and make way for anything that we have from dances to field trips to anything. If there's a way that they can then leave sponsors for them

[R15607-332] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - NAMED FROM THE PODIUM BESIDE HIM: | 2024-03-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: I just wanted to hear you say that there is a way to for the kids to go if they can't come up.
TEXT> With always a way for any Claremont student to do just about everything we offer.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Good.

[R15607-381] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the school board policy subcom | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any attention.
TEXT> Yes. In in the first. This is a great policy. I just have, like, one. Little. Minor detail. The the first  part, like, the first sentence doesn't make sense to me. It just kind of like, abruptly stops. It reads the district provides a supportive environment as to time and place for students and employees collectively. Nursing mothers. Period. So like a time and place like it feels like there's something missing from that part of the sentence. So if we could just. Yeah, if we could just fix it like a supportive environment as to time and place for students and employees collectively nursing mothers to.
NEXT> Unidentified: How about how about.

[R15607-465] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member, chair of the ad hoc disruptive-behavior | 2024-03-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: district in your short period of time on the board. You've made a huge impact, and I know you will continue to do so in the community, and we look forward to having you. We're going to suck you in. I'll be back of that.
TEXT> My family appreciates the the time that they're getting back with me. So especially my three small children, that miss me dearly.  So I will miss all of you. And, I mean, we'll still be in touch.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And thank you so much. Your contributions.

[R15638-18] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: looking to make a motion. The items on the consent agenda are approved. Now we're moving on to citizens comments. We will now open the floor to non-agenda items citizens comments per policy BEDH. Is there anyone who is present wishing to speak this evening?
TEXT> Seeing none, we're going to close citizens  comments. We have no  student board member report this evening, so we'll move on to the public hearing portion of the meeting. This public hearing portion is for the appropriation of unanticipated funds for New Hampshire. RSA 198 colon 20-B, a Roman numeral three. The Claremont School Board will conduct a hearing regarding unanticipated revenue from the safe grant. Round three funds awarded in the amount of $462,328. There are exhibits A through B, and  Mr. Kosky will give us a brief presentation to let us know where you're accepting. Then we will open up, comments from the public, open up comments from the board. Some will make a motion to approve accepting of the funds and we'll move on from there. Great.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So this is a grant to secure school buildings, provide surveillance cameras, harden entryways basically secure, make the campuses more secure. Each building applied for their own needs and receive

[R15638-49] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: and it was my understanding it was well attended. In regards to operations, student staff acted quickly and appropriately during a brief shelter in place on 220. This will be counted for the six out of ten required drills by the end of the year.
TEXT> Culture and climate. Culture and climate continue to be focused. Be a focus at Stevens High School. Positive bystander journey. I'm sorry. The positive bystander journey, bringing in the bystander and student panels all continue to meet, and they continue to have a positive,  reflect on the school culture. And also in addition to that is the student panels that we have are being also meeting on a regular basis just gives an opportunity for more leadership roles within the school. That really changed the the school climate and how we deal with behaviors in the school curriculum. Instruction.  High school is currently gearing up for the NH, a S and SAT testing and more information will be pushed out to families  early. Sometime in early and sometime this match if they haven't gone out already. You have a lot of the Excel,  data that we've been providing the board,  so you can take a look at that. Moving on to the Claremont Middle School. Over the past month, they're also gearing up for the NH SAS testing. Math bootcamp.  The eighth grade has taken a trip to Boston, as you know, because it was approved at the last board meeting. And a few weeks ago they had spirit Week.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I just want to jump in on the math bootcamp. That's, extra opportunity to to prepare for the sass test for the state test so students can brush up on

[R15638-50] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-03-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: Over the past month, they're also gearing up for the NH SAS testing. Math bootcamp. The eighth grade has taken a trip to Boston, as you know, because it was approved at the last board meeting. And a few weeks ago they had spirit Week.
TEXT> I just want to jump in on the math bootcamp. That's,  extra opportunity to to prepare for the sass test for the state test so students can brush up on their skills. And and that's done during their enrichment periods.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That is good.

[R15638-56] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: be added to the tech this fall will be. And they visited Somersworth City Center to see the medical assistant program and to see if it will meet our needs for our community. And we talk about we spoke about that a little while ago.
TEXT> And social services social. The School Social Work Association of America is proud to promote the National Social Work Week, and that was,  the first full calendar week in March. So we just passed it. But I wanted people to be aware of that. And what they do is to collect and shares resources to help celebrate and promote school social work week. Save the date for that. It's already passed. But  for the March 8th, from 12 to 2, they had the running at runnings they had the food bank. Saw department reports technology. They continue to to roll out new staff laptops from Esser Grant. They're working with staff to help with better cybersecurity hygiene and prepping for the New Hampshire Sass testing and continue to work on trouble tickets. As you know, human resource department, we are in the process of hiring a new director of human resources. We also were able to hire a new director of student services, which will be going to the board at the next meeting for approval. And we're well on the way on the contract. Preparations have already started.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Curriculum and grants. Super Assistant Superintendent Michael Kosky just spoke a little bit about that. So that's just more information. Special education and director of student service hiring community has

[R15638-57] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: hiring a new director of human resources. We also were able to hire a new director of student services, which will be going to the board at the next meeting for approval. And we're well on the way on the contract. Preparations have already started.
TEXT> Curriculum and grants. Super Assistant Superintendent Michael Kosky just spoke a little bit about that. So that's just more information. Special education and director of student service hiring community has nominated candidate that will be going to the school board. Childhood coordinating hiring committee has nominated a candidate in this for this coming school year. And you'll be seeing that as well. We'll get in there, folks. And.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What does NHS a s stand for?

[R15638-68] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Now it's x.
TEXT> I started, I signed up and I have a page. So what I'm trying to do is, you know, pretty much bring anyone who chooses to, to follow me and what I'm doing, try to bring you into the day to day operations of what a superintendent does, you know, going into schools. And it's just quick 32nd videos there a minute here. Like for instance, this week, I had a meeting with the middle school principal. So before going in, I just said, you know, you know, just to, you know, put some people at ease in regards to what the the middle school looks like while it's going on in session and classes going on. So it's just a quick video. There are no kids in the hall and stuff. Anytime I'm doing this stuff, we're not videotaping kids or anything like that. It's just to give people a sense of what goes on in the schools, behind the curtain on a day to day, you know, so that and then, you know, I might report out after I meet with the principal. This is kind of the stuff we we met about and spoke about.  So it's just kind of giving people hopefully put a lot of,
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Real life perspective.

[R15638-103] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Christine Baker: level teams to set goals, measurable goals with small groups, and develop instructional plans around those goals. And we have what we call wild time blocks where the bluff tigers. So we're wild. So we kind of it's an acronym for We Ignite Learning Daily.
TEXT> So there's a 30 minute block, for both  Ela and math within our day, outside of the core instructional time where we are targeting those instructional needs  and trying to meet those goals, they're monitored.  And then grade levels also meet biweekly for an hour to kind of constantly cycle back to that data. How are the students doing? Are we meeting those goals?  And reviewing student progress within that. I just want to echo something I heard that was in Melissa Lewis's report that we do recognize that we have some work to do within our tier one curriculum. So within the PLC, they do look at goals. And, you know, for example, one grade level is targeting high frequency words. They notice as a whole grade level that was something they need to work on. So they created a whole, whole grade level plan to kind of target that within the whole setting in the core  and then also within their intervention times.  So I just want to. Point. Out just as a little funny. So each student is a sticky note and they're kind of there, you know, below, approaching or at grade level. And  we look at specific skills and then start forming those groups  based on that. But it just doesn't make money. We always have candy. Chocolate helps us look at our data. Oh,  and then with that, I.
NEXT> Christine Baker: Don't know if I can click on this link here. The the teams have created this is one particular grade levels data sheet with depth names, but. It's a snapshot.

[R15638-108] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sounds like you're doing a lot of things. How's the staff responding? Because I think it's some of this is probably new to them. To the teachers. They are they adopting the the team getting together in the data teams.
TEXT> And yes, I mean we're it's a it's always a work in progress. So you know some you know we we were trying to do a lot in a little bit of time. So we learn that, you know, it really needs to be a data day as opposed to a half day. So we're kind of always evolving with that. But they're very, our just our last one. They came to the table ready. They'd already previewed their data. You know, just really enthusiastic about wanting to get students, the skills they need to be successful. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R15638-125] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Christine Baker: on which strategy they might implement on a daily basis. And so we're we're narrowing it down. You know, at the end of the month we'll have our coping strategy of the month. So that was one of the focus is for our last assembly.
TEXT> So it sounds like you have some student participation in these assemblies.
NEXT> Christine Baker: Yes. And so that's yes. Thank you for mentioning that. We do have students sharing work. So just next month we have, fourth and fifth graders sharing poetry that they've

[R15638-126] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: So it sounds like you have some student participation in these assemblies.
TEXT> Yes. And so that's yes. Thank you for mentioning that. We do have students sharing work. So just next month we have, fourth and fifth graders sharing poetry that they've written because April is Poetry Month. So we'll have some of the sharing of the academic work that they'll be doing. Kindergartners, I think, are sharing a song that they've learned. So that's a piece of it as well. Yeah.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And just finally, you said you have about 50 bags of groceries that go home once a week, and that's 50 out of 175 students.

[R15638-127] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Christine Baker: graders sharing poetry that they've written because April is Poetry Month. So we'll have some of the sharing of the academic work that they'll be doing. Kindergartners, I think, are sharing a song that they've learned. So that's a piece of it as well. Yeah.
TEXT> And just finally, you said you have about 50 bags of groceries that go home once a week, and that's 50 out of 175 students.
NEXT> Christine Baker: Yes.

[R15638-131] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: What happens during the summertime when school is done? No more backs.
TEXT> There are different programs within the community I think, that do offer that I can't. Okay. I'm not sure. Off top of my head, I think there's like free lunch programs where students can get, a lunch. Okay, well.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R15638-136] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 board chair (cluster also carries | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is good. Go ahead.
TEXT> Piggybacking on the numbers of students going home  who are food insecure. How do you connect those families with other agencies and other outside sources for support?
NEXT> Christine Baker: Sure. Well, we work as a team, and so we have Courtney as our social worker that comes. She supports our school as well as the other elementary schools. So

[R15638-154] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: That's a big piece when it comes to, academic achievement. So we're, we're, we're we're constantly looking at that. We do our school based professional development. We do align the needs of supporting teachers and, and the growth of students. So some examples this year.
TEXT> That we've done at Maple. We've done some lexia reporting and progress monitoring. That's that helps our  our teams. We've done some  training, which I know has happened across the other schools. Double's training on administration monitoring and progress monitoring. We also do, wrap around mentoring support  with our veteran teachers and our younger teachers, with a focus on student growth and student academic achievement. As a big as a big piece,  I this this piece that I bringing tonight is focused solely on academic achievement. There's a whole other conversation I could talk about, you know, the behaviors and so on. Some of the other things we do at Maple. But I just wanted to give you a sense  of what we do on a bi weekly basis. And these meetings, like I said, they run 30 to 45 minutes, sometimes an hour. We do a deeper dive with data twice a year.  Well, actually three, I will say three. We do fall winter  and I met those meetings as well. The, the spring piece. It's more of transition meetings.  So  right now, I'm in the process of having Head Start, Green Mountain, and our preschool  came in to share some of the results that they have  to our kindergarten teachers  and our team coming into Maple, just to give us a sense of the needs as so we can hit the ground running, if you will, in the fall with that,
NEXT> Mark Blount: with the incoming kindergarten class. So, these are just some things that, that thought I'd share with you tonight. If you have any questions. Open it.

[R15638-162] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm so absorbed with what you're saying. I find that teachers and perhaps you find teachers are feel safer with other teachers in terms of talking about instructional strategies and instructional approaches in order to improve their.
TEXT> Own, really is a collegial  atmosphere when we have these meetings. And,  you know, it's also a time to, you know,  we can celebrate together  on some of the achievements and some of the,  you know, some of, you know, some of these meetings. The teachers will say,  wow, we have you know, we've really made some progress with this student or with that student. And, you know, we we recognize that I do share, just so you know, and you may have seen this, our data is an open book. So I it goes out to the Maple families. So they see, you know, what it is that we do.  So I don't, you know, we don't hide anything.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So how do you find the time in the course of the day to have these meetings? I'm familiar. We used to call them student assistance teams. Yeah. And that

[R15638-163] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 board chair (cluster also carries | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: just so you know, and you may have seen this, our data is an open book. So I it goes out to the Maple families. So they see, you know, what it is that we do. So I don't, you know, we don't hide anything.
TEXT> So how do you find the time in the course of the day to have these meetings? I'm familiar. We used to call them student assistance teams. Yeah. And that was an issue for us.
NEXT> Mark Blount: These meetings usually occur at the very beginning of the day. So 830 to to about 9 to 915. So biweekly it is taking the teacher away from a morning

[R15638-164] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So how do you find the time in the course of the day to have these meetings? I'm familiar. We used to call them student assistance teams. Yeah. And that was an issue for us.
TEXT> These meetings usually occur at the very beginning of the day. So 830 to to about 9 to 915. So biweekly it is taking the teacher away from a morning meeting.  You know, twice  during the course of the month.  And, you know, we get coverage  for the, that  that period for the longer sessions. We have to navigate and  try to set the dates and make sure we have coverage for those longer two hour sessions, but,  yeah. And they're they're vital. They're very important. That we just stay on top of where kids are at and the needs that they need. When it comes to reading, writing and  mathematics. So.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you.

[R15638-177] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. That's that's good early literacy. You mentioned you talk about attendance. Is attendance an issue at all?
TEXT> Sure is. And there's a direct correlation. I you know, when when we don't have kids  in our classrooms and in front of teachers and in front of other professionals delivering services, there's a adverse effect when it comes to academic growth.  So,  you know, we do all we can. But we do have, you know, that is not not only an issue, probably at Maple, but all of our schools across the entire district. And,  you know, we just, we got to have kids in front of us if we're gonna  if we're gonna if we're going to make a difference.  For that child.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And I'm frustrated to hear you say that, but I also think it's extremely important for the public to hear that attendance is an issue, because the citizens of Claremont,

[R15638-179] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2024-03-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: a school system. And it's only works if the students are in the classroom. And if the community wants to think of how they can help the Claremont School District improve student achievement. Getting the students to be in the classroom is is step one.
TEXT> Yeah, those it's it's important  to have them there. You know teachers want to have kids there, right? They want to help. So,  so it is it's it's critical that we have them. You know, I'm not going to say that,  you know, the 275 kids that  maple that, you know, we have a problem with all of them. You know, we've got  our.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: No. I hear. What you're saying. Right. Right.

[R15638-186] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mark Blount: So was, actually a mid-winter break. The break we had in February, she was there for days, hanging a lot of the work, getting.
TEXT> During. Student. Break.
NEXT> Mark Blount: During student break. She did a lot of the lot of the work there.

[R15638-189] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Well.
TEXT> And then and I just wanted to comment. We were there at 5:00 at night,  and we saw at least five staff members still working at their desks. And so, so often we hear of teachers who leave at 230 or 3:00. I just want to report that at 5:00 there was at least five. Students. Five. Five. Teachers and and staff still working. So thank thank the staff for us.
NEXT> Mark Blount: You sure will.

[R15638-220] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-03-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I move that we do that. Yes.
TEXT> And just I should. I'm sorry. Let me back up a little bit, if I may interrupt. If we run that water from those sinks, the lead amount disappears. And so, because we know where they are, we're not using the first water that comes out of the tap. So just so children are safe. Nobody's getting lead poisoned from water in the school. But we want to be able to fix it so that the first water out of the tap is safe.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you for clarifying that.

[R15638-249] Chris Pratt | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the officer election) | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Know it doesn't appear like anyone supposed, so the motion passes. Next item on the agenda is the tuition agreements for Croydon and Goshen. Mr. Pratt?
TEXT> Yeah. So, like, you see, you have two here tonight, and it's my understanding. You know, I, these were already in discussion when I. When I took over and stuff. And it's my understanding that Goshen is a to continue. Working with the school district and Croydon is new to the table in regards to, wanting to, tuition their kids to, to Claremont. I did have an opportunity to meet with the superintendent of Horton and really had time to talk about the agreement and what it looks like and stuff. And so, you know, going through here, there's no surprise language in here. You'll see it very similar to to Goshen in regards to, the tuition agreements between the two. And so tonight I'm just asking that the board approved the both the Croydon and the those from tuition agreements between the two districts.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anyone like I can make a motion? I'd like to make a motion for the board to accept the tuition agreements. Per the contract provided by Superintendent Pratt for both

[R15638-257] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board | 2024-03-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah 16,000. I remember that. Yeah.
TEXT> Do we have any idea how many students we could capture?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I did at the at the time, but giving you right now would just be a guess. But I can get that. I can get those numbers. Yeah.

[R15638-262] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returning, elected 3/12/2024 as a write | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any other comments or questions, Mike?
TEXT> The students that we tuition in. From in order for either of these districts, do we how do you. Decide which. School they go. To or is it just based on population. Do you know?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah.

[R15638-273] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member | 2024-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes. Okay.
TEXT> But the students do come to the Claremont schools, right?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Well the s a you doesn't have schools.

[R15638-362] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board | 2024-03-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: so section three, I'm wondering why we can't eliminate section three altogether since, the Claremont, it's the s a you who handles the superintendent and the staff hiring. It's not the Claremont School Board. Therefore, why would we have that section in the Claremont policy?
TEXT> I think because it reflects part of the duties that somebody within the Claremont School Board will assume. And we don't have any bylaws currently at the Saw six level.  So as a Claremont School board member, this is your obligation, your operational expectation to X to executing your board duty in regards to. So as a Claremont School board member, you will you will be required to execute these students. Mr. Craft.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah I kind of look at it. This is that what I think you what we're trying to what you're trying to do here is that kind of look as

[R15687-54] Susan Mason | Citizen at the podium during citizens' comments - self-identifies 'My  | 2024-04-11
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: board in terms of the business office, human resources, special education across both Unity and Claremont. Okay. The business of the actual schools would be at the actual district board level. But Superintendent Pratt is the superintendent of all the two districts within the city.
TEXT> Okay. The reason I bring that up is my granddaughter is a special ed student.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Again, start at the at the school level started. Go talk to Mr. Pratt.

[R15687-90] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board CHAIR - re-elected tonight, presiding from 140.7s on | 2024-04-11
PREV> Unidentified: Aye.
TEXT> Opposed? Abstentions. Thank you very much for our superintendent report. Tonight we have nomination  of positions to the Director of Student Services and the Director of Human Resources. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Sure. Okay. Just grab the papers. We'd like to nominate, for the director of Student services, Michael McCusker. He is? What is his current position?

[R15687-98] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board CHAIR - re-elected tonight, presiding from 140.7s on | 2024-04-11
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> So we have to vote to approve these positions. Do I have a motion to approve Michael McCusker as the Director of Student Services beginning July 1st, 2024.
NEXT> Unidentified: With that motion.

[R15687-333] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; SAU 6 Board member; CHAIR of the SA | 2024-04-11
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I don't know what you're asking.
TEXT> And well, we have doesn't the ID we have other  nondiscrimination rules under the idea for employees and for students. True.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. I, I has a very scripted process due process mediation.

[R15687-345] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; SAU 6 Board member; CHAIR of the SA | 2024-04-11
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: This came from New Hampshire School Board Association.
TEXT> I'm completely mystified what this is. I mean, I can see 500 cause with kids because 504 is about about you have some disability that would hinder you in some life activities such as learning, walking, reading. And I don't know how this applies in an employment thing that isn't covered by by other laws. And so I dug a little deeper. And this is these are rules for for entities that accept federal funds. So if you have federal funds, you have to have a five. You have to have protections under 504 as opposed to the Ada where five businesses. So my theory on this is that they're recommending this because of. Maybe of charter schools and private schools that were formerly exempt from the Ada. And I think they're tightening things up where if you accept federal funds, this comes into play. But if you're already if you're already under the auspices of individuals, Ida or the Ada, I can't imagine why you what gap distills that isn't covered by those other those other things that cover disability. But I hear what Mike is saying about a temporary encamp fire somebody because they have a broken leg or require them to to participate in a community service activity that they that they can't do. Like, you know, we're going to expect you to participate in a road race if you're on a wheelchair or something. So  I don't know it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm just curious, where did this come from?

[R15693-9] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Sullivan District 8 - SELF-IDENTIF | 2024-04-17
PREV> Hope Damon: my seat, they're currently working on a couple things, and there are two bills I want to highlight to folks. These are House bills that have passed the House and are now in the Senate, and they would be valuable to school funding in Claremont.
TEXT> I think I may have mentioned them previously, but now we've gotten to this part of the process where they are in the Senate. They're HB 15831583 and HB 1656. The first one raises the adequacy, the base adequacy rate, about $300 more than it currently is. Not a ton, but progress. And it improves the differentiated aid, which is where Claremont would get a greater amount of benefit because we qualify for a fair amount of that if it passes. So I would very much encourage people to put some communication in to Senator Ward as our Senator or any other senators that you or your networks have liaison with. And the other one, 1656 is a special education funding bill. It creates three categories for special ed students based on their needs. How much extra services are they receiving. And then funds different amounts, tiered amounts in those three categories when it was voted on in the House. The bill,  both of those bills passed by about a 2 to 1 margin. So pretty strong support. However, the special Ed 11656 had been amended down from a $35 million budget to a $17 million budget. 35 wasn't enough to begin with, in my opinion. So we are trying to remember it in the Senate to bring it back up.
NEXT> Hope Damon: But even at 17 million, it still is a good step in the right direction. And the last thing I want to mention is I had a request from Candace

[R15693-55] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024; made pe | 2024-04-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: second one, on day two, we had a presentation from Doctor Laurie De Santis, the author of Neuroscience and Social Emotional Needs for Children of Youth. And she talked a lot about with the uptick in the social, emotional, issues that were seen in school.
TEXT> Is that what she's done  around  the country with different schools? And one of the things was, is that, you know, some schools have this curriculum now where you get kids to learn about where they lie in regards to the red, the yellow and the green in regards to how they're feeling emotionally. And so they self-identify where they, where they are. And I kind of put some of the pictures in there in the report in regards to,  to give you a one of them's called the student  Chat, which talks about social engagement, fight or flight or shutdown. So it's not only about the adults recognizing it, but she talked about how we can get kids at all ages, recognizing it at an early age. So as they move up itself, recognition. So it kind of everyone's meeting in the middle rather than the adults just trying to deal with it in a,  post.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Reactive.

[R15693-60] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024; made pe | 2024-04-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: you know, observing us, evaluate us in case they want to get rid of us. This is kind of flipping those dynamics where it's a learning tool that they're going to get just as much out of it as the administrators, for instance, instructional meets.
TEXT> So it'll meet the instruction meets the needs of all the learners.  It's an instructional management and monitoring all student academic achievement. So there's components in there. We can create these different templates and say we want you to do a data walk. We want you to visit another classroom as well as administrators going around. And so some of the components of the walk is,  there's capabilities in there. If a teacher want to take a video of a lesson and upload that to their account.  It's based on rubric scoring.  It's a mobile application. So as administrators, we could use it on our phones. We can use it on, you know, our tablets or what have you.  Instantaneously can take a picture and upload it in the document if we, you know, if we're seeing something good or something we have a question on. So it gives you the, the visual out of facts as well. And you can update any of the  lesson plans, anything that teaching gives you. We can upload them right away into the system. So, you know, so it's it's a program that's going to meet all of these. It's very user friendly. Like I said, we looked at two of them in the and the other one that we, we looked at. Do you recall what it was, was
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. No, we looked at it, we looked at two, we looked at it and it became so convoluted, which is exactly what we have now, right? Yeah, yeah. And

[R15693-75] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024; made pe | 2024-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: They were. I mean, I would get pulled in even if I was just walking by. People would pull me in.
TEXT> But it's. You're right. It sets that climate. It's because, you know, anytime you go into a classroom with the current model, things change. Someone different in the room. It doesn't matter what you do because they're not used to be in there. I was like, why are they here? Even if they know why you're here, the behaviors are going to be better and everything else. So this changes that a little bit, because I know when I was at the high school at least once, maybe two times a day, I just walked through the classrooms and after a while it wasn't like heads weren't turning. What are you doing here? Or teachers say, what? Who do you need and stuff? It just became part of the Daily Regiment. It also kind of in some cases, the teacher said if they don't know when you're going to be around, they'll less likely to misbehave in the classroom. But it's just creating those relationships with your teachers and the students. And I think this will just increase that for all the schools.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Good.

[R15693-95] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: do this unveiling, they want to do an unpacking workshop that will involve the school district, post-secondary and business partners, probably the same group we've been having as well as others to invite and kind of analyze the findings to determine actions for future planning.
TEXT> That's good. And then the district will use the findings and work with SRB to do that with the unpacking, with development, and create a strategic plan for the next 5 to 7 years to take a look at what we need to do,  essentially to  move for our next steps. So SRB, primarily  the preliminary findings, when we met Thursday night, we had a bunch of stakeholders in when the consultants was here, they after them talking to for two days  over what they learned about the area, talking to all our,  students and staff and  talk to Mr. Pratt. They talked to Doctor Harrington, so they were all over, which was great. They said  the facility has space for expansion and a lot of up to date equipment in each program, and that's thanks to partially school district. But Perkins funding that allows us to continue to buy new equipment for these programs. Students are engaged in the classrooms and labs, and students speak highly of the CTE programs and instructors. Some areas that we learned that night  was growth areas. Lack of student advising program that begins in the middle grades and continuous through grade 12. They have an idea for a pathway set up, and they presented that as it was a really great idea. Mr. Pratt and,  Miss Whitney were there and we talked about it after. It's something that we're looking to see how we can expand.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And it really comes from the high school guidance department, the school counselors, and how we can develop that pathway. So a student who comes in as a first year

[R15693-96] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: 12. They have an idea for a pathway set up, and they presented that as it was a really great idea. Mr. Pratt and, Miss Whitney were there and we talked about it after. It's something that we're looking to see how we can expand.
TEXT> And it really comes from the high school guidance department, the school counselors, and how we can develop that pathway. So a student who comes in as a first year student, a freshman, will know exactly what pathway he wants to be on, if he wants to study machine tooling, if he wants to study building carpentry or a medical assistant program, they'll have that information before they leave middle school. And it's the pathway needs to also include career inventories in middle school. So there's a lot of great opportunities there for growth for us. The text and renovation, this is an interesting endeavor. And I learned this at the CTE director's meeting. First phase for us was the shrub report. Find out what kind of programs we should be looking at in our region. What is our workforce look like for those? Obviously, when they did a desktop review, it was a major need for medical  needs. Working with the state and working with our partners over at the  Claire or the Newport Tech Center,  we came up with a plan to offer a medical assistant program, and that's what we're planning to do this fall. Could be some challenges because we just, you know, we we had most of the stuff in line. Now we got to find an instructor and we got to see if we get to recruit students.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And that was decision was made a little while ago where students can decide what they want. So it may create some havoc in the counseling office, but I think

[R15693-97] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: and that's what we're planning to do this fall. Could be some challenges because we just, you know, we we had most of the stuff in line. Now we got to find an instructor and we got to see if we get to recruit students.
TEXT> And that was decision was made a little while ago where students can decide what they want. So it may create some havoc in the counseling office, but I think that it might be a real good move for us. And so we'll have to see how that plays out.  The next step would be an architecture review. And so I did contact our architects Laval and who do most of the renovations in. And I gave you their paperwork there. That contract is about $54,500. In order for us to put that together. And that would be phase two. And as you look at that contract, all the pieces that they have in there, what we want to do, how do we want to play it out?  They would be involved with us in promoting what we want to do to the tech center. I've walked through with the architects  in particular. I believe it was  I said, Kevin, Lance, Lance and I just walked through the building and he's thinking, and it's just ballpark numbers.  It could be as much as 12 million, but more like 10 million. And it's mostly infrastructure related  HVAC, a new boiler, all these things reconfiguration upstairs. And they would say using the Sri sRGB report.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Hey, these are the workforce programs we're looking to expand to. How do we make them fit in our building and where should they go and how do we work

[R15693-103] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: our programs. Then I want to give you some. One of the big things for CTE centers from the state is the push for industry recognized credentials. And I wanted to share with you that we've had 46 OSHA, ten completely out of our students.
TEXT> Now, we had some that completed last year that are second year students. So we're probably at 99% of students completing. So that's been really good. 21 serve safe Iroc complete. And that's for culinary. So these students could walk away with this industry recognized credentials. Say I took serve safe and I have OSHA ten. And now the students that get ten, if they have a driver's license, we're going to train them on how to use a forklift. And these are all great opportunities for students. Now, most companies will say, great, you've got forklift training. We're still going to train you. Great. But to walk in and have that tech center driver's license that says, you know how to operate a forklift safely, at least from a really basic level, get you a foot in the door. And that's what those things are all about. We currently have about 106 students in our CTE programs at 11 from Newport, and that number doesn't waver too much, but we do have, on occasion, students that drop out for whatever reason. We still see that the travel back and forth between Newport and Claremont is a challenge.  Some systems, it's kind of a challenge with the schedule as well.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So we'll have to see how that plays out on the the new schedule that we're looking at with the periods and blocks and how we're going to play in

[R15693-105] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: that is for middle school students. It's five fun, full days of tech center camps. We usually get about 50 students. The quantities have been great to help support us. We use Perkins that money to fund that. So it's completely funded from outside sources.
TEXT> And really the only thing we use from the  district here is the buildings during that time. So they covered supplies  and they pay for the teachers and all the help that we have in that way. So and then the quantities usually that's their thing where they help us with the t shirt. I want to show you some pictures of some of the projects we're working on. This  on the upper left you'll see a go kart they built. Students  milled the parts for it. They built it from the ground up,  and we got an engine to come in and they built the engine. This was happening in our machine shop. They had to weld it all together. So it was a really great hands on experience. We're going to be using this in the alumni parade. So if it lasts we're hopefully. It's. Got they learned some lessons about steering because the the tires are too close to the and so they can't get a very tight steering. So so it's an educational piece in the center. We using about 50%  of leftover materials and about 50% of donated materials. We built this shed for the Kiwanis so they could use it in their option, so that they could use it for a fundraising effort.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: As you can see, I'm not going to mention any names, but someone amongst you bid on it and bid it up for me. So thank you very much. But

[R15693-111] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: tell they had thought about it. Their their comments were, well, substantiated and I just, I, I was just so glad to be able to witness, that that positive experience. Question is tell me again about summer school and who goes to the summer school.
TEXT> So it's a summer camp for one week, usually the week after 4th of July week, and only students going into sixth, seventh and eighth grade. The focus is on offering an opportunity for middle school kids to come in and see what we have at the center.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And you said about 50 students.

[R15693-112] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected 3/12/20 | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: summer camp for one week, usually the week after 4th of July week, and only students going into sixth, seventh and eighth grade. The focus is on offering an opportunity for middle school kids to come in and see what we have at the center.
TEXT> And you said about 50 students.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We had about between 40 and 50. Depends how many programs we have and the interest at the time it waivers, but it's no less than 40.

[R15693-120] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected 3/12/20 | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: And when it gets too deep, I'm calling the high school and getting Courtney up, the Courtney Porter up, and then she's come up a number of times as well as, you know, whenever we needed that assistance, it's usually a bigger issue when we're.
TEXT> But as I understand this career counselor, it's really an interface with businesses in the. Community. And fitting them with the students and creating,  on the job training for, you know, yes, opportunities. So it is somebody who needs, needs to know the community and needs to know the jobs in the community.  And I think Nancy might have some ideas about maybe not me. I'm not saying this, but a retired person who might know, the business area and and be a good interface for that position.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Correct. Right now I'm looking into what it looks like. And regarding somebody who doesn't have a certification, what does that look like to get a certification? Right? You know,

[R15693-121] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: community and needs to know the jobs in the community. And I think Nancy might have some ideas about maybe not me. I'm not saying this, but a retired person who might know, the business area and and be a good interface for that position.
TEXT> Correct. Right now I'm looking into what it looks like. And  regarding somebody who doesn't have a certification, what does that look like to get a certification? Right? You know, Frank was a counselor, a career counselors, very similar along those lines in that. So they would have to have some counseling background. You know,  we want this person to be work based learning. I'd love to see a job board for high school kids  so they can look at jobs and also tie that into work based learning opportunities. There's a myriad of things  and I tried to capture. It was like a 12 page job description at first, and I had to cut it down quite a bit because I didn't want anybody to be overwhelmed. But working as a team together, advertising these, looking at the job opportunities for students, being a personal counselor on occasion. Potentially then having all our tech students reporting to that career counselor as one of the instead of  all sharing those responsibilities so that they would get that. I really think that when I looked at the pathway that sRGB was proposing that we look at,  that included a career counselor, and that career counselor would be on that pathway to show how that goes.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And they would be at with the eighth graders getting ready to say, what did your career assessment say that you took last year or this year? Oh, you look

[R15693-122] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Alex Herzog: those responsibilities so that they would get that. I really think that when I looked at the pathway that sRGB was proposing that we look at, that included a career counselor, and that career counselor would be on that pathway to show how that goes.
TEXT> And they would be at with the eighth graders getting ready to say, what did your career assessment say that you took last year or this year? Oh, you look you like doing x, Y, and Z. Have you ever looked at this job here?  And that's how that that engagement with the student makes that difference.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: The makerspace is another place you should be contacting.

[R15693-144] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-04-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Well, thank you for coming. Thank you. This evening and taking time away from your family. Truly.
TEXT> And on last note, Mr. Pratt likes to come over to the tech center and walk in and out of our classes. My teachers love it. I'm in the classroom all the time. Just checking on things, checking out students. Mostly I act as the. We work as a work environment here. I'm the big boss. The teachers of the boss in the classroom. We're actually going to think about getting time parked in. So they have to punch their time cards like they would in a real place. Those are the things we want to simulate in a work environment. And,  we say, good morning. We pull them aside. If they're not. We check in with them to see how they're doing.  We get to know their students by first name, but we're in the classroom a lot,  and particularly me, just so that I can run in and on the safety guy. I'm making sure that they're wearing their helmets, they're wearing their glasses, and when they see me, they're all scattering to make sure they do that. And that's just the reinforcement piece. So but in a good way. But thank you.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I just have a quick question. Yes, definitely. Are you. Going to be doing another career. Day this spring?

[R15693-187] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - identified by office and by the chai | 2024-04-17
PREV> Mike Koski: that's really important for a coach is they, they have to be somebody who who's observant. They, they watch and listen very closely because you have to figure out kind of what's going on in somebody's head to know what's the best application for correction.
TEXT> And if anybody's coached, I have and I've overcorrected. You've probably overcorrected with your own children  and you just misread the situation. And so you learn to develop that skill.  My wife's Chris and I were laughing because we have daughters. My wife's told me many times you missed on that one.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It doesn't matter if the son just.

[R15693-217] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024; made pe | 2024-04-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: With that. Yeah.
TEXT> These positions will be, you know, pretty much student driven, not adult driven and big gates on the need and will know where they're needed based on a couple of things. If you have a teacher that you know, you have 75% of the class not doing well, right. That's an indicator that we need to get a coach in there. Just like if, you know,  you know, so so that's we're looking at it that way. We're,  we're trying to flip it. So it's, it's really a student driven need through the teachers rather than it's it's always about the doubts and the coaching.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right now all we have to do is find the right people. Yeah.

[R15693-221] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 (appointed 1/12/2024; made pe | 2024-04-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: strengths are because everyone's got strengths. And to be able to alleviate the fear of having somebody come in. So if you're talking about moving people around, you tend to water that down. And I just that would be something I just would be careful.
TEXT> Sure. It is a very much relationship  built role because they're working with adults. And and that's why it's, it's tough when you talk about how can they be involved in evaluate a process. I mean, that would that would hinder the, the relationship because they would be afraid to put their the teacher said, I'm having difficulty with this or that. They have to know that that person isn't just going to turn around and run to the administrator and say, guess what? They're not doing this and stuff. So it's built on the, the, the mentor kind of relationship moving forward. And I think it's different in every school and it's different in every community. It will kind of work its way out in regards to how that position falls, based on the need of that school with that particular cohorts of kids. And, you know, every four years we have all new kids at the high school so that that will change based on the needs and the data that we're showing. You know, for that cohort of students, just like the elementary school, elementary schools are there for much longer. So, you know, you have more of that stability.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I'm sorry. The other piece is that we will be focusing on a particular skill set of instructional methods across the district, right. And those 3 to 5 focus areas

[R15693-227] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected 3/12/20 | 2024-04-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Peer to peer.
TEXT> Think of the word. But you know, it's not a negative. It's a it's a way to be supportive.  And, you know, just the beginning of the year. These are your resources. You know, these are your resources, just like the school nurse is for. If the kid hurts their stuff.  If if the teacher needs, you know, some help in how to present the A class, a concept. Right.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Resources and support for the teachers in the classroom. So not working in isolation. Right.

[R15722-12] Chris Pratt | INTERIM SUPERINTENDENT of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair hands him the flo | 2024-05-15
PREV> Chris Pratt: by in for the plan that we will be developing. And so within those steps, they'll be developing actionable strategies that will help our district navigate tough trade offs and guide decision making, build support among stakeholders and buy in for the district's pathway forward.
TEXT> And we talk about stakeholders. We're talking everything from parents, possibly students, board members, administrators, teachers. And we met with the  city mayor in the city manager today. And we I want to include them in that as well, because we're really trying to work together with the city to come up with a plan that's going to work for, for all of us. And so hopefully this strategic plan is going to drive results with action plan that enables us to track progress towards our goals. So real quick, where it will start, it will start on looking at or creating the mission and vision. And that's the long term  district aspirations that we have. Next, we move into the theory of action was the fundamental beliefs around what we need for long term success for Sussex. Then we move on to the priorities, the priorities of the broad areas of work that are key levers for what we want to do in Sussex. And then we add in the measurable goals, which are specific in their targets, that are directly related to our priorities that were creating that we can collect data on. And then the initiatives, which are specific projects related to priorities that help us achieve the measurable goals.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And finally, we finish up with the action steps. And those are articulations of what steps needed to occur by who and when we want to do it. So we

[R15722-38] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: or age bracket regulations will be optional between patient doctor that was legally for the most part, but also Aubrey. We had proper grooming by Evan La Plante. It was deemed unconstitutional, but the House did pass it and there was an uproar of clapping.
TEXT> I unfortunately, I was in another meeting and I, I could tell Evansville was being discussed and I made Matt go and I'm like, take this. And you knew that he passed because there was clapping after. It was excellent.  And then we have allowing New Hampshire students to take an excuse mental health or Behavioral health day with Aubrey and Mia and then,  allowing 16 and 17 year olds to prove register to vote. Aubrey and me and Herbert,  most of these bills that made it to the floor, they also passed through the governor. There were a couple that were vetoed. And like I said, the grooming bill got unconstitutional. But hey, what  I also included in the presentation,  Lee Gleason, made a statement about the impact on her.   She was really gracious because she very much had the opportunity to be editor in chief this year of the newspaper and let  other student take that limelight and then helped her out. So  that was great of her to do.  Alex Picard, which could he couldn't be here. He says that this program literally changed his life and that it made him feel more confident and like he could do anything.  And and that is the intent of the program.  Tonight, I have  engaged with me.  To tell you guys how it's impacted them. I've also brought a bill book. You guys can fight over it.  I try to steal as many as I can.  But.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: This is the books you can read our students bills. Also in there is the newspaper where you can see some of these articles. But I can tell you, we

[R15722-44] Gage Moran | STUDENT, Stevens High School (senior), Youth and Government delegation | 2024-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Close to the bottom of my.
TEXT> I am Gage Moran. I'm a senior from Stevens. So unfortunately, to my chagrin, this is my last year in this program. But,  first off, I'd like to thank you all for having me tonight. Second of all, I wanted to give a little background on my time in the program because a lot of other kids who join next year hopefully will probably have a similar, similar ride through it. So when I first got started in this, I was admittedly very shy. I didn't want to do it at all, but my mom said either a sport or this club. So I was like, yeah, I think I'll take the club and said, cut to three. Four years later, I'm more confident in my speaking ability. This is why I'm able to speak to you guys now. I've learned more about government, and I've had the opportunity to put my ideas out in one of the coolest locations in our state. It's it takes a lot of creativity and confidence, but if you are able to put yourself up to it, you can do a lot of cool things in that state House. And you can meet so many people, both, you know, official and a friend and friends. It's just it is a very good experience for everyone who needs confidence and wants to have their voice heard. Shorter than my friend over there. But thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R15722-49] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: even it's just a tie. But also one of the cool things that I try to sucker the kids into as part of the program is when we're down in Concord, they get to have they get to have an hour and a half. Lunch.
TEXT> And they get to go to any of the restaurants that they want, and the main drag and concord. And that does cost money. I mean, the average lunch down there, if you want something halfway decent in most of those shops, is going to be at least 10 to $15, maybe 20. Yeah, at least. And then and you know, with rising costs getting worse,  and then  at we always on Friday when we do the overnight, except for when they're celebrating an anniversary which will we want to talk about that. They,  we usually go as a group to a restaurant. Actually, I think there was a picture in there. Maybe it's the. Last picture. I think that's Lee's statement. We,  we go out together and we have dinner together. And  the students, you know, learn about having to tip and how much you should tip and and we, we hoof it as fast as we can to get whatever restaurant. And, you know, we have to we have to agree together. Okay. Where do we want to go eat? That's going to accommodate everyone that has dietary limitations that are vegetarian, vegan or whatever. And  we get together and we have dinner and have a great time.  But dinner can sometimes cost a lot down there, too. It's because the main drag of Concord doesn't have, you know, McDonald's, which God, I don't want to subject them to that anyway.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: We ate at this great place called vibes. And we had a great time. But sometimes I have no problem, and I've done it before. I'll take money out of

[R15722-51] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: I'm losing half the delegation. And we were only at ten this year. But for Covid, I had got our numbers up to the 20s and and we're we're back down. But so if you know kids that might be interested, send. Them our way.
TEXT> Miss Crawford, do you,  is it Gage and Audrey? Aubrey?  Do you talk? Do you have the opportunity to talk to, like, freshman kids? To encourage them to participate?
NEXT> Aubrey Herzog: Yeah. We have a club there at Stevens, but it's it's kind of hard to want people to participate in it. Like, we all know that in, like, interest in.

[R15722-65] Ms. Chastain | SOCIAL STUDIES TEACHER, Stevens High School, and ADVISOR to the Youth  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Good. You're truly. A credit to the community and your families. And thank you so much for taking the time to share these wonderful experiences with us. Appreciate it. Thank you.
TEXT> I was so excited for her. They will tell you I'm not a hugger. I'm not emotional. I was up in the gallery when she was announced governor and I cried. She was still like, right there. These are my kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R15722-74] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: Derek Staves come in, and he's worked with most of our teachers at this point, and he's coming back in June, and we already have teachers signed up for that. We have a new hires coming in. They are starting to sign up for that.
TEXT> So that's really exciting. We have,  the AMC early Numeracy assessments, which we paid for with grant funding this year. If you've seen,  or are familiar with the assessment for early literacy, this is kind of like a parallel in mathematics. And what I love about the AMC assessments is that teachers get the results. And there's a book that tells them what to do with the results, so they can actually figure out what interventions would help each student. There's a report that actually groups the students  in the classroom, and then teachers can collaborate to address the needs of students in small groups across the grade level. So this is a huge step that,  teachers are really, I think, are having  access to the data. I've gone into classrooms and I've done those assessments with teachers to make sure that they understand how these work. What we're looking to do now  is  purchase new instructional materials so that the instruction would be aligned to the expectations set by the state. We've had a few challenges this year.  At the elementary level, we've we've had challenges because wit and wisdom places so much demand on teachers in terms of planning their lessons and providing them instruction, that we've had challenges getting teachers to participate in a math committee.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: And when offered a chance to pilot the one of two programs either Eureka or Eureka Squared and into math. We didn't have any teachers who are willing to try

[R15722-80] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: in the schools that I've been in that have used the copiers, there's been a lot of wear and tear on the copy machines when the copy machines break down, because it's inevitable when you have everybody in your building printing 30 pages a day.
TEXT> It's often difficult for math instruction to happen if the copy machines aren't working. And my all my other concern is that if we ever had a cyber attack and all of our PDFs for a math program are online, we might be in a situation where we couldn't access those files for like, what, a week or two? At minimum, at least two. So Eureka Squared came out recently. It's published by the same  organization, Great Minds, that currently is publishing and Wisdom. It's an updated version that's even better. The layout for  K-2 is significantly better. It has a lot more space for those little fingers that are learning how to write. Some of the pages have color, which is great for engaging kids. It has a reasonable number of lessons per year. The old version had 180  lessons. I have never seen a school with 180 days in a school year that had 180 instructional days. If you have school photos, there goes your mouth. Lesson for the day. Right.  So having 140 lessons all aligned to the standards is really it's it hits that zone where teachers have the ability to spend a little bit more time on certain concepts of students are struggling, but they're also not rushing to get through all of the lessons each year.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: There's an online component that allows teachers to give assessments and get some data back quickly, which is really helpful if you want to know where your students are and

[R15722-81] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: all aligned to the standards is really it's it hits that zone where teachers have the ability to spend a little bit more time on certain concepts of students are struggling, but they're also not rushing to get through all of the lessons each year.
TEXT> There's an online component that allows teachers to give assessments and get some data back quickly, which is really helpful if you want to know where your students are and how they're doing.  And the downside would be the cost, but it's the same as or less than the math and focus materials that we're currently paying for. The middle school math teachers were a little bit different.  Teachers were given the opportunities to look at both Eureka Squared and into math, but they were also given the freedom to look at any program that's highly rated by Ed reports.org. Ed reports is kind of like the Consumer Reports for instructional materials, so anything highly rated by that organization would be aligned to the standards. The teachers actually decided that they preferred into math because they like the way that it starts the lesson off,  with an engaging activity that helps students kind of access the content. So how would we know if these programs work? We would be looking for increases in the lower grades, especially during years one and two. Grade three, I think, is going to be a really key year to start looking at, because that's when students start testing, right? So we know they shouldn't have as much of a of a learning gap, especially if we're working on aligning k one two, using the other early numeracy assessments we should see increasing course.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Especially again at the younger grades three and four within four years. I would like to think that the Sass scores would begin to increase, and this percentage of special

[R15722-82] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: to start looking at, because that's when students start testing, right? So we know they shouldn't have as much of a of a learning gap, especially if we're working on aligning k one two, using the other early numeracy assessments we should see increasing course.
TEXT> Especially again at the younger grades three and four within four years. I would like to think that the Sass scores would begin to increase, and this percentage of special kids would begin to stabilize and eventually decrease. The reason why is that if I our destruction is aligned to the standards, we should have fewer students being identified as needing special ed support. So in the long term, that could actually be a benefit and a cost savings to the district. And personally, I would like to say that I would love to be here 5 to 7 years at least. And I would love to see the problem  of having students take Advanced Placement courses in high school, because their instruction has been aligned so that they could get to that point. Cost, I know, is a major concern. The grand total for purchasing both programs would be $85,729.28, but, we have $120,000 allocated right now,  and about $8,400 could be pulled out of that. We could use grant funding for the PD.  Always good to do because you use it or lose it with grant funds. So that would be a good place to use some of those grant funds to help defray the cost of the program. Once you take out the one year costs related to buying the teachers additions and the professional development, your,  the cost should be roughly what we're currently spending on math and focus, if not slightly less.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: So that's my recommendation to purchase these two programs. Questions?

[R15722-91] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board - FOU | 2024-05-15
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: Right, right. But there is also I think it's helpful to understand too, that if everybody is aligned to the standards, that the level of rigor is going to go up for all students.
TEXT> Miss Hawkins, I think that you may have referenced this when you were  answering Mister Patron. But I was I read through this. I was wondering, are there tiers that will provide opportunities for teachers to go deeper with students who are more accelerated, more successful, or some way that there's individualization based on going deeper for kids who are ready and able to.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: I think that as our teachers become more familiar with the materials and they develop the instructional strategies that we want them to have in their professional toolbox, then they

[R15722-97] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 - Chris Pratt names him as the co-lead | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> That was a big part of the stage training was learning how to take a math problem or situation, extend it to to deeper thinking. So for a student who is easily access, everybody can easily access this. But these students can take it further. And here's how we extend those problems.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[R15722-101] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-05-15
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: Yes.
TEXT> I was wondering. About you had mentioned, the reports that are available as far as the math goes, so that teachers can learn the common areas that where kids are struggling.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Yes.

[R15722-104] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: fourth grade teachers. But if you have one fourth grade teacher would be a team of one figuring it out. But is this easily consumable for the data teams that schools might have so that they can get together as groups and figure out gaps?
TEXT> Yes. Our intent is to create those data systems  from k one two using the AMC early numeracy assessments, but then also make sure that we're using common assessments,  in grades three, four and five to make sure that teachers have some way of comparing how their students are doing relative to other students in the district, and that they can have collaborative conversations regarding how they support one another, and making sure that all students are reaching their potential.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So just a quick follow up. So, I wrote it myself a note when you were talking about pacing, if they're if they're going to be working together. So, 140

[R15722-127] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR of the Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC)  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: All in favor of the motion as articulated by Miss Hawkins? Say, I. I opposed. Motion passes. Thank you. Very much. Thank you. Third item on the agenda tonight is a. Technical centers. Pre bond planning service bond. This is okay. It's you, Doctor Herzog.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. So. Two points. Of information beforehand. The Tech Center Culinary is having their luncheon on Friday. You're all invited to and on the public that we still have seats available for our summer camp, which is July 8th through 12 for middle school students. Before we get started here, so might as well. We're on the air. Thank you. So I was asked to kind of come back last  meeting. I gave a presentation on what we're doing at the tech center and update,  this is the LaValley resident architects that we came to, and we've asked them for a proposal to see what that looks like.  The actual amount is for $50,000.  What? This. I talked to my colleagues.  The CTE administrators conference we had on Friday kind of looked at what they've had, proposals like Milford and  other schools that are looking at these are the premier guys that do this for CTE renovations. They will look at the infrastructure, they will look at safety concerns. And we have some real safety concerns from 30 years ago  where it was different then, you know, doors access and easy access to the buildings. So those are the things that they will come back with.  This needs to be like the phase two of following the shrub report.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Now, we received the draft copy of it as our be asked us to sit on it because they're still working through the communication piece on it. And so we

[R15722-151] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Alex Herzog: Thank you very much, everybody.
TEXT> Before. Before you leave. Tell us again if kids want to sign up for the summer program. Yes, at the tech. What's the process that they have.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: On our website? There's a way they can go. It's a.

[R15722-157] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Alex Herzog: a direct URL that brings us right to our website here. And they can sign up right on our website. We have a Google form that can sign up and we have ability to then they come in and pay when they're ready. It's 20.
TEXT> 28th grade. Students are eligible for this two weeks.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We will take eighth grade, but it's mostly those going into six, seventh and eighth grade.

[R15722-162] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR of the Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC)  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: And what's the cost?
TEXT> It's only $25. And we do have scholarships available for students that can't.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: This is a great opportunity. And they're crazy if they miss it.

[R15722-167] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Alex Herzog: Yes. And don't forget lunch on Friday. It's going to be smoked pork, pulled pork and then chicken and then some other vegetarian options. So if you're available at 30 to 1230 here.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Moving on to item number four.  We have a presentation from  Mr. Ben Nester, our director of Student services.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Sure.

[R15722-176] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: Meeting.
TEXT> So we can. As far as this goes, I know you guys have had this ahead of time, and we certainly answered some of the questions today during the budget meeting. I'll just kind of explain briefly what it is, and then we can maybe get into discussion about it, maybe the most productive use of our time. The under item number one is just some basic numbers around the rate of special ed students. You can see the state average, versus the Claremont Historical average. And the third column from the left one back of 2014. And then the our identification rate currently is right around 25%, a little bit under, there.  But the next table below lists the various disability categories. And there's a key, I believe, either on your last page or at the top. I think Chris may have moved it to the top on the superintendent's report.  And that explains what these abbreviations mean. And more on that on the next page.  The next the next couple tables cover the students by age and then by, by grade. Pretty consistent there, particularly if you look at the grade, flipping over to the second page, the,  the graph, I don't know if it's in color in front of you.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I think it is on the superintendent's report. Is shows the areas of disability. And there's a couple of things worth highlighting there. So for instance, speech and language students

[R15722-177] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: next the next couple tables cover the students by age and then by, by grade. Pretty consistent there, particularly if you look at the grade, flipping over to the second page, the, the graph, I don't know if it's in color in front of you.
TEXT> I think it is on the superintendent's report.  Is shows  the areas of disability. And  there's a couple of things worth highlighting there. So for instance, speech and language students state average is 11.4% of students are identified as having a speech and language impairment. We're a little lower at 4.5.4 percent. Another one that's stands out, is  a disability. These are our most cognitively impaired students. State averages 2.7%. Claremont's a bit higher at 5.1. And then another one that's a bit discrepant is a motion disturbance  with Claremont coming in at 10.2% with the state average being 55.7.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So twice the state average.

[R15722-181] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board - FOU | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Solicit questions from the board to drive the conversation. Miss Hawkins. In.
TEXT> The chart at the top of the second page. And. Correct. Help me if I'm more developmentally delayed. Goes up to an age. There's an age cap. Correct. And then those same students are identified as intellectually. Just.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yes. Eight. Eight. Nine. Right. Eight. Exactly. Age nine is where that disability aged nine and beyond that disability no longer applies. And then from there, the the team at

[R15722-191] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: And I.
TEXT> Can just for for the people at home.  The first,  the first graph that we're looking at is a percentage of  students identified  as of ten, one of each year. And  this year for the Clements School District.  The identified rate. That's I saying that right is 22.35%.
NEXT> Ben Nester: That's 22.

[R15722-196] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: for the state. The second graph shows the distribution of the kind of disability. And I think, while we don't have 23 scores, I can see as of 22 the two areas, the most common disabilities are, developmental delay and emotional, disturbance. Is that correct?
TEXT> I think in terms of just look at all the special ed students in the district, the most the most common would be speech and language or specific learning disability.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Oh, okay. Thank you.

[R15722-204] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. So, so for people at home, it's important to see that it's not just one kind of classification. For special ed, there are various kinds of, criteria, that come under special education.
TEXT> The next the next piece, I tried to answer some of the, some of the questions as part of the presentation. A little bit about our out of district placements in district programing.  The table on the third page shows each of the  self-contained programs, as they're called, meaning they're not students are not in the general population. Their needs are so great that they need to be in a special classroom.  But we have we have programs that that, you know, service a complement of needs, you know, to the extent we can in the district. And then on on to item number two, I underlined my recommendations. Which would be, you know, the need for behavioral programing at the middle school and high school. Those are both very important things that I think we need to need to take a really hard look at at some point in the near future. And then I mentioned the Academy, which we talked about quite a bit, the high school program that was sort of a reboot of the old owls program. And and then I think the third, the third recommendation I had was around the MTS or multi-tiered Systems of support, that's tier two, tier three levels of support.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And that that Doug tells us what Kat had shared earlier about, you know, when you when you address curriculum and programing before a child is referred to special ed,

[R15722-205] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: bit, the high school program that was sort of a reboot of the old owls program. And and then I think the third, the third recommendation I had was around the MTS or multi-tiered Systems of support, that's tier two, tier three levels of support.
TEXT> And that that Doug tells us what Kat had shared earlier about, you know, when you when you address curriculum and programing before a child is referred to special ed, your special ed implication rates will go down. And so it just gets back to the old adage of, you know, the rising tide brings up all boats. And so again, I beat that drum again. I think the most important thing we can do for our special education students is to address the base curriculum and instruction needs for the whole district.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Can you explain the difference between a behavioral program at the middle school and high school level versus like at the life skill programs that we have, and how

[R15722-206] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: of, you know, the rising tide brings up all boats. And so again, I beat that drum again. I think the most important thing we can do for our special education students is to address the base curriculum and instruction needs for the whole district.
TEXT> Okay. Can you explain the difference between a behavioral program at the middle school and high school level versus like at the life skill programs that we have, and how that would look differently and what,  student population it would serve?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, absolutely. So, you know, simply put, students that are in what you might call life skills program or students that are typically intellectually disabled, they're non diploma earners. These

[R15722-207] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Can you explain the difference between a behavioral program at the middle school and high school level versus like at the life skill programs that we have, and how that would look differently and what, student population it would serve?
TEXT> Yeah, absolutely. So,  you know, simply put, students that are in what you might call life skills program or students that are typically intellectually disabled, they're non diploma earners. These are students that will likely, you know, attend high school perhaps until age 22.  And then probably be in the care of their parents, many of them, or in some kind of a living arrangement when they when they leave school. So these are students who we're trying to build independence and the great as much skill as possible so that they can navigate the community independently when they when they leave the nice, cozy environment that is that is school.  And then when we generally refer to a behavior program, these are students with average level intellect that do have the capacity. You know, academically and intellectually to earn a diploma that they have, you know, pretty serious behaviors, usually driven by an emotional disturbance that really get in the way of their ability to access the curriculum.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So am I accurate in saying that like a life skills program is someone that as a program that a student could not move out of, but a behavioral program

[R15722-208] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: with average level intellect that do have the capacity. You know, academically and intellectually to earn a diploma that they have, you know, pretty serious behaviors, usually driven by an emotional disturbance that really get in the way of their ability to access the curriculum.
TEXT> So am I accurate in saying that like a life skills program is someone that as a program that a student could not move out of, but a behavioral program is someone that is a program that a student could actually move out of and go back into the general population.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Generally speaking, that's true.

[R15722-211] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's ideal.
TEXT> That is exactly the idea. And in fact, the the pride program at the elementary level, which is a very strong program that's been around for, you know, since 1819. We transitioned a number of students in and out of that program very successfully. And I feel like, you know, this year in particular, the program has absolutely gelled and become like a real, a real positive, very positive thing. Worse worth mentioning.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What would you say the transition rate is, say, in the pride program now that it's jelled? So you have like, is it 25% of the students that are enter

[R15722-213] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: transition rate is, say, in the pride program now that it's jelled? So you have like, is it 25% of the students that are enter the program by the next school year, they are able to exit or and integrate into the regular classroom setting.
TEXT> That's a great question.  I, I mean, I guess what I mean by gelled or really come together is, is the program really, is just like a well-oiled machine right now. So it operates. Well, it doesn't require, boatloads of administrative oversight like it did in the past when it was when it was beginning. And then we have seen an increase in the last couple years of students transitioning out, which is really the big metric for. Right? So we were the kid was able to be in there six months and then they were transitioning out, you know. That I think. That's. How I described Joe.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins.

[R15722-227] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board - FOU | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: Oh my gosh I am sorry. That's another typo. I, I apologize. Yeah.
TEXT> So camp is middle school students.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Said yeah. It's it's

[R15722-230] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So that would be six seven, 6 to 8.
TEXT> Yeah. Sorry. There's there's a number of typos in the grade level column, so I'd ignore that for now. But essentially, you know, your middle school program serves students high school.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: That's why I was questioning it. Yeah. And and my second question, when you transit, when students are transitioning back into their regular classroom, that's where least restrictive environment comes

[R15722-231] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board - FOU | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. Sorry. There's there's a number of typos in the grade level column, so I'd ignore that for now. But essentially, you know, your middle school program serves students high school.
TEXT> That's why I was questioning it. Yeah. And and my second question, when you transit, when students are transitioning back into their regular classroom, that's where least restrictive environment comes in. So do they go with support when they go? Is that is their time for that classroom teacher and that special educator and para to collaborate on that transition?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah.

[R15722-234] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I mean I don't know how does that work?
TEXT> Yeah, exactly. And it's it's in my experience.  Or with when working with kids, it's case by case, right. Some kids need a very slow fade in, so they might attend morning meeting, you know, or they might start by attending the specials. And then as they're stable, then they start to attend more and more and they fade in. And then some kids do better when it's a band aid type scenario. You pulled a band aid off and they just start fresh in the new program. And then to answer your question about the support, in an ideal world, we, we take the staff that know the kid well in the program, and then they work with the kid in the general classroom training the new staff. That's that's the ideal scenario. And then they and they fade their time out as the kid, you know, become successful in the classroom.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Okay. Thank you.

[R15722-264] Ben Nester | DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL EDUCATION / STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School Dis | 2024-05-15
PREV> Mary Henry: Oh, no. By all means do. But.
TEXT> You know, I think of the special. The budget is the budget. That's what we vote on. And then there's there's revenue and then there's reimbursements. Right. So what we see in the form of revenue would be like wishing, you know, if we have students that attend here at 2 or 3 a year for the last 5 or 6 years, we get paid by the sending district. So that's a form of revenue for us. Then there is sped aid or what was used to be called catastrophic aid. And these are for students that are very, very costly to the district. And we've we usually get around,  600 to 700,000 a year in reimbursements there. And then and then Medicaid is, is Medicaid dollars  that that come into for for students that are Medicaid eligible. And that's, that's been around 500, 600,000 as well. So  about. A. Million plus terms of reimbursement and revenue.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think it's important for us to understand that that's only represents 15 to 20% of the actual costs. You know, I mean, we can look at the numbers, but

[R15722-265] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: 700,000 a year in reimbursements there. And then and then Medicaid is, is Medicaid dollars that that come into for for students that are Medicaid eligible. And that's, that's been around 500, 600,000 as well. So about. A. Million plus terms of reimbursement and revenue.
TEXT> I think it's important for us to understand that that's only represents 15 to 20% of the actual costs. You know, I mean, we can look at the numbers, but to put it in perspective, we we by law have to educate these students at a certain level. And we're only reimbursed at a 15 to 20% level. So the local costs are 80 to 85% of federal funded mandates.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: On funded. And funded mandates. All right. Okay. Any other questions for Mr. Nester?

[R15722-267] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board - FOU | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: On funded. And funded mandates. All right. Okay. Any other questions for Mr. Nester?
TEXT> I just want one comment. For that that that legislation that we heard about at the last meeting, the tiered legislation based on the needs of special education students that went to the Senate. Is that similar to what you've just described as catastrophic aid?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Can you refresh, David? Oh, Miss David is here.

[R15722-269] Hope Damon | NEW HAMPSHIRE STATE REPRESENTATIVE (Sullivan District; House Education | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Can you refresh, David? Oh, Miss David is here.
TEXT> Good evening. Don't think that what  Miss Hawkins is referring to. I don't think that legislation replaces catastrophic eight. It creates three categories of need for special ed students, distinct from the 13 categories that are sort of diagnostic, for lack of a better word. There was some confusion at the state House about that. We weren't changing the 13 categories. But I think that there was still catastrophic data. And I apologize for the hesitation.  That Bill is in trouble. It did not get a favorable committee report from Senate Education.  It has not been voted on by the full Senate yet unless they did it today. They're having a full session this afternoon and tomorrow. So it's probably going to get voted on this week. I wish I had better news on that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R15722-317] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District - she presents the S | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Moving on to our next item is our financial update, miss Henry again? Yep.
TEXT> So,  just real quick, I wanted to mention, before I get into the finance part of it that,  we did receive some more adequacy aid. Not advocacy, but the as part of the catastrophic aid,  it's chapter law 264, which basically because they raised the limit to 22 as how long you have to educate students that how many districts are here? There's probably about a dozen districts here, maybe a little more than that that received additional monies. So it's for students that are 21 to 22. So again, you can read that  if you want. But that was the point of this money was for that. So we're treating it as if it's catastrophic aid money. We received $205,210.46. So that to me was kind of unexpected and kind of nice. So again, that brought our revenue up to for cat aid. And this money brought us up to $772,000 this year. And the other thing I want to mention about Cat aid is, is it's from the previous year's expenditures. So. And I didn't even think of this today when we were talking candy, that I should have gone back and looked at last year's amount of money to tell me the exact percentage that we were getting back because it's returned based on the previous year.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So if you have a year that's really big, and then you come into another year the next year where it's really less, you're actually getting a lot of money,

[R15722-342] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Mary Henry: Haven't gotten any bills yet, so I don't know.
TEXT> But some of that should be encumbered because we do have students who go.
NEXT> Mary Henry: And I am not sure who they are. Currently.

[R15722-344] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Mary Henry: And I am not sure who they are. Currently.
TEXT> But they are they  are students involved. So there will be a cost.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yes, they will. Be a cost. Okay. I if I remember last year's correctly, I know we did not spend 4200 last year. I would assume it.

[R15722-455] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague, for the finance subcommittee.
TEXT> Yeah, we met at length today. Candy. Heather and I met with the whole administrative team just about. And, talked about how to district placements and, and the costs there.  Quite a learning experience, a thing for all of us at different circumstances. And we had been talking quite a bit about the, the various factors that go into it and the different places kids are. And again, as we've been hearing a lot,  one of the contributing factors is, effective interventions at the schools. Tier one, tier two interventions that we need to work on. And, we heard more about that with the curriculum tonight.  Trying to think also, I'm going to jump ahead and then I'm going to let you guys fill in the blanks. We talked about the getting the policies that are noted as deficient in the audits, making sure those are ready to be  given over to the policy committee so that they don't appear as keep appearing on audits as  our recommendation.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Are their staple policies already ready for those?

[R15722-485] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member and CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board - FOU | 2024-05-15
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Just. Changes between the terms and then the summers. Completely different than the term.
TEXT> You don't have students, right.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: So yeah, but today we had the meeting to talk about what the summer looks like. So now I know.

[R15722-520] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: To ask.
TEXT> Sounds good to add. It was. It was very good. So. Just  a heads up for the upcoming big ticket items on our agendas is  a discussion about the efficacy of our new cell phone policy on academic performance. And also, we're going to have a discussion on the proposed bill schedule change. That is probably something we want to have. We want to communicate, a little bit more aggressively to the public, since I think it will be a surprise if we don't, and probably not a welcome one, even though it's been happening in the school. A lot of these,  the assignments of classes happens between the student and the guidance counselor, and the parents may not even be really aware that there is a potential bell schedule change. And I'm going to try to create space within that meeting for there to be more time for community comments and community discussion. So that's where we're at. Is there any request for additional agenda items coming up? Since I am building?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I just have a question about the question that actually Frank brought up at the last meeting about any bonds being retired this year before we go out for a

[R15786-13] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (strategic-planning consultant) | 2024-06-05
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: to be a focus both on educational but also management best practices. So through the strategic planning work, we will have a relentless focus, of course, on student outcomes, but also strategic resource allocation and operational efficiency to see the results you want for students.
TEXT> As I mentioned, we've worked with hundreds of districts across the country. You can see some examples here, but supporting millions over students. We have a few different business units and ways that we support districts through our research, which you'll have access to our consulting services, which strategic planning is a part of. And we have software and other coaching programs really just supporting whatever districts need. So this is my team who I'm representing here tonight, our founder and CEO John Kim. He's also a professor at Harvard Business School. So that's how he came to be 20 years ago  to support school districts. So that's who we are.  And I'm going to talk now about just why strategic planning is so important and our approach to it. So essentially what this is saying  is that districts often lack prioritization in strategic plans. We did research of hundred strategic plans across the country and looked for common elements, which you can see here.  We found that only 3% of strategic plans we studied had some type of prioritization, 3 to 5 priorities. What we typically find is strategic plans can be very lengthy, beautiful  documents that sometimes live on shelves.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: I and don't actually guide the day to day work of the district. In addition, when we talk to folks in multiple districts stakeholders, whether it be school leaders, staff,

[R15786-17] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (strategic-planning consultant) | 2024-06-05
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: folks collecting quantitative data to conduct a needs assessment to understand what are some of the root cause challenges in the district. We were in this group today, or we were in this room today with a group starting this work to inform our analysis.
TEXT> We'll wrap that up at the end of July once we've talked to stakeholders. This includes district leaders. We'll do small groups with board members, the mayor,  families.  We'll talk to students,  everyone really that has a voice in the district. And that will then directly inform the development of the strategic plan, those portions that I just went through. And then in the fall, when  everyone comes back to school, will bring that draft to the communities so that they have a second chance to give that input and feedback,  and that will create the  finalization of the strategic plan as you move into implementation. As I mentioned, when we work with districts,  we then identify those initiatives, align to the plan, identify maybe what is not aligned to the plan  to create those detailed action steps and monitor progress.  So that will be how we do this work. A key component is going to be a group we form called the working Committee. We do have board member representation.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: We just had our first meeting today. But I know we've gone quickly. So we'll bring some people up to speed who were not able to attend. But this is

[R15786-41] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any questions for Mr. Romeo? So are you saying that that your rubric, your discipline rubric is going to be more aligned with the high school?
TEXT> Yes, actually,  Mr. Pratt shared what they had been doing. So we are moving that as long as it's age appropriate for us as well, meaning with some of the restorative practices that they have when they have students that are maybe talk in focus groups or with other people, middle schoolers, that's a little tougher. So we want to work with them to get to that point. But yes, we Chris had sent over what they were using. And so we're working to put that and embed that in our own programs.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Then I will make a motion to approve the Claremont Middle School Handbook, as amended, with the new restorative justice rubric alignment. Is there any a second?

[R15786-71] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Mike Koski: 20th meeting, for different strands. And you can see those strands over here. And we'll break the data down further by grade so that we can see where we're excelling and where we're needing more work. Here we have the grade six results, 24% proficient.
TEXT> But we still have this kind of struggling 40 to 50% group who are below grade level that we need to catch up. Now,  grade seven and eight, we get into a problem because we didn't have enough math teachers for grade seven and eight this year. So they had a half a year of online math that has,  in my opinion, impacted their scores, producing a lower state score. For this year, for both seventh and eighth grade, we also had a situation where 20% of our seventh grade opted out, opted not to take the test after. I think it's 5%. The State Council those scores is zeros. And so the students opting out of taking the test  really impacted the school scores.  Particularly for math. So the state expects 95% participation and we only had 80%. Eighth grade, again, similar  kind of low scores. And again, we'll go into more of the strand data in the end of June. Grade five science. Science is tested grades five, eight and 11. And it's an accumulation of science in grades three, four and five for this grade five test.  The state average was 37% for the science exam.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And we're we're lagging behind. I would say a bigger part of our, science grade is the need to improve reading skills. Almost every science question has a section of

[R15786-73] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Mike Koski: they were in fifth grade and taking the math test. So fifth, fourth grade, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh grade. And what we see is this growing gap at the bottom where students are not catching up. And so we really need to address that.
TEXT> Our top performers tend to be shrinking a little bit and our  students falling behind seems to be increasing. So if we look at the eighth grade group as they go through, similarly they are the bottom group is increasing, though the top group is not decreasing the same as seventh grade while their scores are improving. They're not improving at a at a quick enough rate to keep up with the state average. And then science. We have the two tests, their  eighth grade their fifth and eighth grade scores. And again. The this is the grade that hidden back over there. There would be their eighth and 11th grade scores. So same trends science and math across the years. And  while that doesn't paint a a pretty picture of success yet  in our. Benchmark testing, we had all just to to to say this isn't a things aren't disastrous.  At all three elementary schools, each  school achieved 100%.  Growth in their reading tests this year and and in math. So the K to five all students have made a year's worth of growth. Now, for a student who is a year behind, that still leaves them behind, but it doesn't leave them further behind.
NEXT> Mike Koski: It's when students don't make a year's worth of growth. They make less of a year's worth of growth. We have a lot of classes where students made 140. Some

[R15786-74] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Mike Koski: in their reading tests this year and and in math. So the K to five all students have made a year's worth of growth. Now, for a student who is a year behind, that still leaves them behind, but it doesn't leave them further behind.
TEXT> It's when students don't make a year's worth of growth. They make less of a year's worth of growth. We have a lot of classes where students made 140. Some classes made 200% growth, where they've gone from below grade level to above grade level in a year. So I think we're going to continue to see those situations grow and it becomes more common. Right now we have pockets of of excellence and super growth. And we're going to use those teachers to get that distributed across our school systems and begin to see these state numbers change a little bit. So questions.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just a quick question comment. So I'm looking at these strands on 11th grade science. And I'm seeing that earthen space science is listed there. Yes. Which is interesting because

[R15786-200] Heather Whitney | Board Chair | 2024-06-05
PREV> Bonnie Miles: I'm so glad you were there. You were there.
TEXT> Our existing facility, they were very impressed with how  well maintained this facility was, and that we had plenty of room to grow within the footprint that we have. That was positive. Also,  Doctor Beard from the state of New Hampshire, he's the CTE director, was present and was very much engaged and involved in the process  and had a lot of real  salient points to share. And we talked a lot about  embedding credits,  and the issues that we have with  kids not being able to have access to CTE,  courses because they are busy making up academic requirements and how we can potentially build a system by integrating math and  English requirements into CTE courses, so that the students do not have to flip back and forth from the high school to the to the tech center. They can get both both credits in one course.  The challenge with that is that there's going to be budgetary,  attachments.  Because we need math teachers to be able to support  the curriculum development and the implementation  of those kind of courses within the tech. And so this is going to have to be  a commitment from the board and the public on that end to, to actualize that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Because, I mean, I think it's, you know, like anything else, budget is always a constraint. But when you're looking at moving forward and really because it's not just going

[R15786-201] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: math teachers to be able to support the curriculum development and the implementation of those kind of courses within the tech. And so this is going to have to be a commitment from the board and the public on that end to, to actualize that.
TEXT> Because, I mean, I think it's, you know, like anything else, budget is always a constraint. But when you're looking at  moving forward and really because it's not just going to help protect center. It's also going to help the high school, and it's going to open the doors and really bridge that gap because you're talking about we need the additional you know, it's at some point looking at having the the English, the science and the math teachers here to in the work to be done before that is embedding the competencies within the tech center classes so the students don't have to do the math. You know, even though math is part of like an electrical class or plumbing class now, okay, now they have to go back and take the math over there. Make sense to start working on building the competencies right in those tech center classes. So they're getting the credit for the class. And it's also meeting the graduation requirement. But that's a lot of work. You know when you're looking at.  It you know you know trying to to build that. And I'm sure Michael spent his many yes, doing that in his prior life. But it's a huge undertaking. But at least we know that that was a common theme.  With everyone there at the gallery walks, is that be nice to find a way to do that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's all. That's all residual from no No Child Left Behind highly qualified teachers all the way back to 2000. Yeah. And prior to that, we could we could

[R15786-202] Frank Sprague | Board Vice Chair; Finance Committee chair | 2024-06-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: Michael spent his many yes, doing that in his prior life. But it's a huge undertaking. But at least we know that that was a common theme. With everyone there at the gallery walks, is that be nice to find a way to do that.
TEXT> So that's all. That's all residual from no No Child Left Behind highly qualified teachers all the way back to 2000. Yeah. And prior to that,  we could we could give credit if someone was doing a welding class. There's a certain amount of metallurgy involved with that. And you could look at that and say, even as a guidance counselor, look at it with the science teacher and say, yeah, there's that science. Give them a half credit. You can't do that anymore.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, interestingly enough, Doctor Beard said, is that with the revisiting of the 306, although to the dismay of some, the way the 306 is being manipulated, there are going

[R15786-203] Heather Whitney | Board Chair | 2024-06-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: There's a certain amount of metallurgy involved with that. And you could look at that and say, even as a guidance counselor, look at it with the science teacher and say, yeah, there's that science. Give them a half credit. You can't do that anymore.
TEXT> Well, interestingly enough,  Doctor Beard said, is that with the revisiting of the 306, although to the dismay of some,  the way the 306 is being manipulated,  there are going to be opportunities for more flexibility that did not exist before. And so there was some upsides, to this revisiting of the 306 that had benefits for us in this district and for the tech. Also, interestingly enough, he  mentioned where we talked about issues with mathematics  and how not being able to have kids up to speed mathematically is inhibiting their ability to be successful in the CTE courses that require geometry and. Using a. Major and right and, and  that and changing the perception in the community to recognize that this is truly education.  It's the trades are  an education and also the expectation or the students cannot expect to end their expectation at the high school that there is now an understanding that you graduate from high school tech program, and you have to get secondary education to be able to really,  use the skills that you're, that you're gained here. So that was something that was new for me to learn because.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I also read into the other conversations. Right. You know, really, you know, we'll be creating true pathways. You know.

[R15786-211] Bonnie Miles | Board member; Capital Improvement Subcommittee representative | 2024-06-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: I mean, every step of the way have been a true partner. And that's, you know, we're so lucky to have them in our community.
TEXT> Yes. I had a son who was at right here. And when he graduated, he went to the college in Manchester. And the atmosphere was so different. And they weren't just a bunch of high school kids. There were some adults in there, and just all of a sudden, he liked it so much that he went on for further education. So I see what you're saying. They just they don't get it until they see it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We want to work at.

