[R17323-25] Cody Button | Student ambassador, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (plum | 2026-04-15
PREV> Justin McGuire: I'm Justin McGuire.
TEXT> I'm Cody button. Of course, she said. Student performing and heating.  I've been  I've been very passionate about plumbing heating since I ever found out we had a program here. And of course, when I came in, there was a teacher that I really liked. So, of course, I took his class and kind of sparked from there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Great.

[R17323-90] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-15
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you, I appreciate it. I'm a little under the weather tonight.  So the two things, starting with the diploma of Distinction. A question was asked at the last board meeting about how many students who opt out of the state testing are,  on the 27 credit diploma with distinction.  So what I've done and the best information that I  have is the students that have opted out of the S.A.T. when also opting out of the sass. Right. So doing this is this year's numbers. Okay. So out of 109 juniors, you've had four people opt out. And that's where the actual opt out paperwork. Okay.  I'll go into a little bit more detail. In this, three of them were on the 20 credit diploma. One of them was on an Alt certification. Actually not receiving a diploma. There are other students here that are on the list that didn't take the SATs. They're taking an all assess. Okay. So if they're in if they're in life skills and things like that.  And Miss Minnie Ryan, she gave  us to hear of a bunch of numbers. But as I go through, these are students that are out of district placed.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Their placement is in charge of getting them to take that test. Or you have students that, are technically homeschooled, though accessing us for a class or two, they don't

[R17323-91] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-15
PREV> Michael Herrington: an all assess. Okay. So if they're in if they're in life skills and things like that. And Miss Minnie Ryan, she gave us to hear of a bunch of numbers. But as I go through, these are students that are out of district placed.
TEXT> Their placement is in charge of getting them to take that test. Or you have students that, are technically homeschooled, though accessing  us for a class or two, they don't have to take the Saturday. So they didn't take it and that shouldn't that doesn't affect our numbers, right? Because they're just accessing us for a class. So we do. We did have a homeschooled student come and choose to take the SAT with us. Okay. So, so that's a that is and I think that there is also,  one student who has not been attending and has not signed any opt out paperwork or not attending, and I believe  Mr. Maple has been working with him.  So that is it's there's no one on the 27 track that's not taking state taxes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so no one on the track for getting a diploma of distinction, has opted out or has not taken some kind of assessment test. Correct. And I think that

[R17323-97] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Is that the SAT prep.
TEXT> As I said, as I said at the last meeting. The prep course. I think the only reason it was not in the program of studies this year was because there was so much done it and there was so much moving number like it was supposed to be there. It was laid out. It will be in the next,  course of studies for, for students to choose to take. It will be a sophomore class. It will run a semester.  It'll be split, between right now. It's going to be a sophomore class, run a semester. Be split between English and math.  I'm been trying to tweak. Maybe a better way to do it.  But right now, that seems to be the best method. Okay. So it'll be a course available to be taken.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. So. So it's so that next year there will be an SAT prep course offered.

[R17323-101] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes. And it was. It was. Okay.
TEXT> And so that's for the following year. Right. So the students have already taken their  they've done their course selections, and we're building the schedule for next year. Now we don't have the capacity for it. So it'll be the year after that. All right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you.

[R17323-106] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: Is there is there a velox option or some option to prep?
TEXT> There is a vehicle option. We do have, one student who's in the academy has been doing that and is very,  dedicated to it.  And as been making great progress.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So there are options available. It's just not as, of course, for next year. Correct.

[R17323-110] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's really important.
TEXT> Yeah I agree with you. The the question that I would have is, again,  how do you,  incentivize the students to take it seriously at that level? The score itself isn't really that important. It's more of understanding of the format. So when they see it as a junior, they're not really surprised.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: All right. Yes.

[R17323-123] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Anticipated vacancies.
TEXT> So good evening, everyone. So right now we are looking at some anticipated vacancies. Some of them are due to. Some of them are also. Looking at potentially where we were with the rift last year. And so if we're putting folks back into positions that we had rift at the beginning of last this past year. So we're looking at system principal at CMS,  the D coordinator at CMS, two special education case managers, two social studies teachers, and three English language arts teachers at CMS right now. For Stevens High School, we're looking at the assistant principal. There's the possibility of having that second one back again. A social studies teacher, an English teacher, chemistry teacher, Spanish teacher, two life skills special education teachers, case managers, and then three regular case managers for special education, three, three and then the Arc coordinator. So that's the academic recovery center. And so that's where students are going in to check in on how things are going school wise.  For dessert, they will be down a school counselor. And then from Maple Avenue, there's one fourth grade teacher, there's a school counselor, and then there would be a social worker at the elementary level that would be split between the two elementary schools.  And then one special education case manager. And that's what we're looking at for right now.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So I know I have print out of this. Will you send that to the rest of the ward for us? I mean, do you have it right now?

[R17323-194] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-04-15
PREV> Brian Rapp: So is that a is that an error then. Because this is partner grades 2 to 3 at Maple.
TEXT> Yes. Sorry. Yes. All right. There may be there are 1 or 2 students that may be in the discussion between families. They have a potential option of one of those things. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Did that get your.

[R17323-218] Brian Rapp | School Board Member; Policy and Capital Improvement subcommittees | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: The rest of the board at this point. Is this something that you want to have the administration take time to review, or has that ship sailed?
TEXT> Thank you. So let's just play this out. So so we have an upcoming school year. So we can't do anything with bluff. Correct. So so we're going to move people. And then potentially we would go back in a bluff. So move again. So potentially we could have three years in a row moving kids. So that coupled with we already had a one article pass. The voters overwhelmingly approved to sell it. I have no interest in that. None none.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I, I fall pretty much in line with that I.

[R17348-24] Stephen Walker | Public commenter, Ward 2 - taxpayer/parent seeking a school-lunch-acco | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, let's go on to citizens comments. Do we have any citizens tonight would make the comments.
TEXT> Stephen Ward two. I'm sure the board is quite familiar with that name as of this morning. So I will just get right to the meat potatoes of this.  As a taxpayer. I respect that the is oversight of public funds. However, I do not appreciate being misled and that has taken place. I have simply asked this school district Food Services Department to refund funds in my students account that have not been utilized since October 8th of 2025. This request was made in writing on April 23rd, 2026, which was prior to the April school break. Yet prior to this meeting, my school bus account still shows a positive balance in the account of 395 20. I have either been misled by Miss Skinner's reply email sent on Monday, May 4th, 2026, claiming clearly that she was beginning the process to refund said monies. Or I have been advised that the district's policy and state law requires the money to be released by the board via manifest to be approved by the board, which is misleading and contrary when referring to the district's own policy. DCPS School board policy decay in no way requires the payment be listed on a manifest and refers to New Hampshire RSA 19723  A, which allows this board to direct funds to be paid, and there is no mention of a manifest.
NEXT> Stephen Walker: So once again, this district is picking and choosing how we apply our policies. I am being inconvenienced because people failed to act on my written request for the refund,

[R17348-25] Stephen Walker | Public commenter, Ward 2 - taxpayer/parent seeking a school-lunch-acco | 2026-05-06
PREV> Stephen Walker: district's own policy. DCPS School board policy decay in no way requires the payment be listed on a manifest and refers to New Hampshire RSA 19723 A, which allows this board to direct funds to be paid, and there is no mention of a manifest.
TEXT> So once again, this district is picking and choosing how we apply our policies. I am being inconvenienced because people failed to act on my written request for the refund, and the inaction continues today. Even the verbiage in the school district policy f a relating to student lunch accounts fails to address remedies for this situations or situations where there are excess funds in the account. The policy should explain a process on how you're to retrieve funds from the school lunch accounts. However, the focus is primarily on the delinquency of accounts and the actions and protections for the district. This board and district wants public trust, especially when it comes to the financial responsibilities. However, I'm here discussing a natural transaction, or lack thereof, for funds that are related to a lunch account that I paid into under the good faith that my student would be able to eat as he chose, or in this case, chose not to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's a three minute minutes.

[R17348-37] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; ASR renders the self-ID 'Mi | 2026-05-06
PREV> Michelle Springer: to be run by non certified staff on a daily basis. That raises serious concerns about both compliance and the quality of instruction students are receiving. Even more concerning, some students, juniors and seniors have gone an entire year without earning credits from last year.
TEXT> There was no consistent oversight, no system of accountability to catch this in the real time yet. Now these same students and their families are being told they must make up those credits through additional classes or summer school  after being led to believe they were on track all along. That is not a system failure. That is a breakdown of trust. So now we are left with a program that is underfunded, uncertified, and consistently staffed and lacking oversight while serving students with complex needs. If we do not build appropriate and endorsed district programing, we will be forced to send students back out of district at a significantly higher cost, creating the same surprise deficits we were trying to avoid. And with even fewer staff now, especially in special education, how do we realistically expect to avoid that outcome? How do we prevent increased out of district placements, higher cost, and continued stigma that the special education is a financial burden rather than a responsibility we plan for and support. We have a clear path forward, which could be to develop a properly structured, certified alternative classroom within the high school, staffed with 1 to 2 certified special education teachers and at least two paraprofessionals for every ten students, with those supports remaining stable.
NEXT> Michelle Springer: This concern has been raised since last July by me and others. Yet here we are. What I am asking tonight is simple acknowledge reality, take accountability, and create a

[R17348-38] Michelle Springer | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; ASR renders the self-ID 'Mi | 2026-05-06
PREV> Michelle Springer: support. We have a clear path forward, which could be to develop a properly structured, certified alternative classroom within the high school, staffed with 1 to 2 certified special education teachers and at least two paraprofessionals for every ten students, with those supports remaining stable.
TEXT> This concern has been raised since last July by me and others. Yet here we are. What I am asking tonight is simple acknowledge reality, take accountability, and create a plan that is compliant, transparent, and centered on students. Because right now, the cost of not doing that financially, legally and ethically is far greater.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other citizens who would like to comment tonight? I don't see any. Doctor Harrington, are you. All right? Thank you. All right. Then

[R17348-42] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (through 6/30/2026) - merged cluster: al | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, let's move on to superintendents Report. Okay. Good evening. It is with much pleasure that first I'd like.
TEXT> To start. With the appreciation for staff and teacher appreciation Week. It is amazing. And I hear concerns and I understand. That I want to discredit that.  But at the same time, appreciate everybody for all that their work they're doing. I would just like to give a big round of applause for all of our staff and all of our schools, particularly the teachers, and everybody is showing up. So please forgive myself. Then, is a great pleasure. So our marketeers are here. I would like to introduce you to Miss Jennifer Gannon and Miss Laura McCombs, who are both math teachers at CMS. And they have a a team of students, and they also introduced Lincoln  and then Lincoln. Make sure he goes over what's happening.  Anderson. Sorry  with going on with the math team. So I would like both of you to start. And then Lincoln. Go ahead.
NEXT> Lincoln Anderson: I'm Lincoln Anderson with the with the CMS math team. My two coaches are missing and Miss Magdalene has already been introduced and my other teammates are I wouldn't be

[R17348-43] Lincoln Anderson | Student, Claremont Middle School; MathCounts team member (self-identif | 2026-05-06
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: they have a a team of students, and they also introduced Lincoln and then Lincoln. Make sure he goes over what's happening. Anderson. Sorry with going on with the math team. So I would like both of you to start. And then Lincoln. Go ahead.
TEXT> I'm Lincoln Anderson with the with the CMS math team. My two coaches are missing and Miss Magdalene has already been introduced and my other teammates are I wouldn't be in Brooklyn Ben Falkenburg, Wyatt Moulton in Brunel,  Alexander and Emmy, Joseph Bermejo Acero and Lucas Martin. What is the math competition? Mass counts is a premier national middle school mathematics competition in the United States that promotes problem solving skills, critical thinking and achievement. Through school chapters, state and national levels seems returned the competing after Covid. I made things down my first year of middle school in the 2324 school year. We compete at the regional level every year in February at State College. This gives us the opportunity to not only compete in mathematics, but also to experience a college campus. The competition consists of three sections individual team where we worked together, the team before, and the countdown round, or the top ten people of the whole competition battle out for first place in the rapid fire action packed lightning round. You should see the students in this round. There they answer the questions like, okay, so like it'll start like like the person will not even start reading the question. It'll  have a blip on the screen and then it'll just like have like like like like like just random math question. And they'll immediately raise their hand and they'll have it correct too.
NEXT> Lincoln Anderson: And it's like high school math. It's not even middle school math. And they'll already have it down every year. Our goal is to do a little better, a little

[R17348-57] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presiding) - this cluster also absorbs parts of th | 2026-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. I think you can play a higher than that. But generally beyond eighth grade, they kind of find it a little baby ish because it is cartoony a little bit but yeah, through eighth grade mostly.
TEXT> So it's first through eighth grade students who are doing this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R17348-152] Stephen Walker | Public commenter, Ward 2 - taxpayer/parent seeking a school-lunch-acco | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Mr. Walker.
TEXT> Just for clarification purposes. This district's policy is labeled DCPS. I suggest you take a look at it because it doesn't say anything other than following the RSA. And if we look at RSA 19723-A, there is no requirement for a manifest. It's just the directive of the board. I understand it would be more convenient had it made it to the manifest. It did not. But that is no fault of mine, as clearly stated in the email chain that you all received today. I did my due diligence. Somebody decided to not do it before they went on vacation and now it's causing delay. Two weeks is not an unacceptable time frame to receive $395.20 for a student who will be graduating. I'm not asking for it because I need it as we clearly went after. It's not about the money. It's a matter of why should you guys maintain money in a non-interest bearing account that isn't yours? It's my students lunch money that he did not use since October 8th. It sat there. It's obviously not a big concern to me, but what riles me up is the fact that because somebody didn't do their job, it did not make it to this manifest has nothing to do with me.
NEXT> Stephen Walker: It's the lack of accountability to the person who's in charge of this money, not getting it out of the account. I show up tonight and it's still in the

[R17348-176] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (Finance Subcommittee; School Reconfiguration Expl | 2026-05-06
PREV> Matt Angell: in the sense of if there's any more out of district placements from now to the end of the year, because I, I've asked for that information. I don't think they know exactly that. And the answer for that either, I'm going to update it.
TEXT> Meaning the student services director.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. And then, when the year end happens in the month of July, my normal operating process is the first three weeks is just closing the books. Okay. And it's

[R17348-224] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (through 6/30/2026) - merged cluster: al | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you. I think we're back to this reconfiguration of schools on the agenda. Okay.
TEXT> Good evening again. So we are similarly where we were before with the sewer.  I have attached the maps for the projected room assignments for next year. Hopefully you everybody had a chance to see that.  And then for Maple Avenue it would be the grades 3 to 5. And again similarly the map was attached for that. We are looking at working with transportation on the bus part, trying to have a staggered time, as I mentioned before, so that we drop off at one school  and then move over and then drop students off it. So we would start at NARD most likely, and then go over to Maple Avenue. So we're working on all the specifics on that. But it would be a little bit of a staggered time just to make sure. So families, if they're not taking a bus, families can be at two places, you know, don't have to be in two places at the same time. So there's a little bit of a stagger. There's also recently a request about looking at the from the transportation department, looking at the start time for CMS that just came in today. So we're reviewing that as well. The Superintendents Council met, and I appreciate that on April 20th and we went over the, you know, the prayers and cons of bus routes using bluff just to foreclosure.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You know, disclosure right now that everybody had concerns about bluff being the current stop, maybe not being there because depending on what happens with bluff in the future, that

[R17348-256] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (through 6/30/2026) - merged cluster: al | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Anything else?
TEXT> Just one thing that we have to go to discuss. Nonpublic this just in today, so I apologize. There is a discussion of policy JICC and that is a student suspension from the bus that just happened today. And it does require a board vote. So let me go into nonpublic. The request that we discuss this as a situation that just happened today that does need a timely response that really shouldn't wait until May 20th to get on the agenda. And right now, that should be it for what we've got.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So that would be, Okay. I'll, Yes, please. Okay. And then I just left the academy and the pre-K analysis on the agenda. Doctor Broderick asked me to put this

[R17348-406] Noelle Kronberg | School Board Clerk (calls the roll, keeps the minutes) | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: We had one. Yeah, there was one.
TEXT> Yes. L and then the one for student. Yes. We would fall under C.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Save that again please.

[R17348-408] Noelle Kronberg | School Board Clerk (calls the roll, keeps the minutes) | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Save that again please.
TEXT> I believe the one for student discipline would fall under C is C. Yes. Matters which are discussed in public would likely affect adversely the reputation of any person other than a.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Very good. Okay. So moved. All right. Seconds.

[R17348-467] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 - selected but not yet in office; atten | 2026-05-06
PREV> Matt Angell: don't know how bad it was. The contract was signed. They were ready to to convert the data without our input. And we would have to live with what it was. I'm the one who pushed it back with Carrie's help for one more year.
TEXT> Because you've seen angry teachers sitting here before implements a new student information system without a year of training. Right. They'll overflow this.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It was supposed to start this past January. Rightly so. And yes.

[R17373-22] Taylor Trudeau | Music teacher/director, Stevens High School (introduced by the Interim | 2026-05-20
PREV> Taylor Trudeau: cool. That included our first student who made the All-State Modern Band, which is like a rock style band. Who's back there? Andrew, on the keys and some players in our orchestra, the All-State orchestra, choir and band, which was really, really wonderful to see.
TEXT> And  people definitely kind of took note at that at the New Hampshire  or the New Hampshire Music Educator Festival. Like, wow, there's a lot of Claremont students here this year, which was really, really cool. We also had some students place really, really highly in 96 out of 100. Was that right? Woodwind group.  Something close to that for their solo and ensemble festival, which is really incredible. That was up at Plymouth State,  as well as our most recent  competition in which choir, percussion ensemble, Musical Theater, co-directed by Kat Gessner and myself and  the band all received superior ratings, which is a one rating, as well as first place among all of the groups that were there in every single ensemble, which was crazy  and a Best Overall Choir award, as well as the Professionalism Award that they only give to one school the entire festival based on how they treat each other and how they treat their directors. And just it was just incredible to see them  take home all those accolades. Some of them have brought those trophies to show you today.
NEXT> Unidentified: Who.

[R17373-25] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides; calls the meeting to order, controls the | 2026-05-20
PREV> Taylor Trudeau: a one rating at the Soul and Ensemble Festival. So they're just going to play something really short for you. You might recognize it. It's a very famous cue of music called The Sorcerer's Apprentice. And this is our woodwind quintet from the high school.
TEXT> Are you going to  introduce the students? Sure. Please.
NEXT> Taylor Trudeau: Yeah. Well, love to have you guys kind of want to, like, arc around this. Okay, that probably be easiest. Yeah, that.

[R17373-34] Hope Damon | State Representative, New Hampshire House - Croydon/Sullivan County (s | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's a great way to start them isn't it. Yes. Okay. So now we will go back to citizens. Comments. Are there any citizens who would like to make a comment tonight? Hope.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Boy, that's a tough act to follow. I'm not going to be nearly that much fun. Excuse me. Close to all those students and Miss Taylor, it's really impressive.  I'm state rep. Hope Damon, for the record. And just wanted to report back on two things from the state House on the open enrollment bills. Senate Bill 101 was tabled, and it will not come off the table at this point in the term.  House Bill 751 is in a committee of conference which has met once earlier this week. I was there, it's amended some more, and there will be a vote of the committee of conference  by next Thursday is the deadline. And then whatever that recommendation is to the House will be voted on on June 4th. So open enrollment is a version of it is still under consideration is how I would put it. The current version is not as bad of fiscal impact to sending districts as what we worried about greatly this winter. But it does have fiscal impact, and there are a lot of uncertainties and questions about how special ed and transportation and various other. I won't get into the weeds, but,
NEXT> Hope Damon: If it passes the house, it will be up to the governor to decide whether it becomes statute or not. And I think there's a pretty strong consensus that open

[R17373-40] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee; chair of the ad hoc School  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes, sir.
TEXT> Sorry. Given that we have a charter school opening in Newport, what is the potential? How to. My assumption is, is that the adequacy aid that would normally go to a Claremont student attending a Claremont school district would follow that student going to a charter school that happens to be in another community. Am I correct in that? Or if it's not, if it's something you don't know, I just saw that.
NEXT> Hope Damon: So. I believe and I will verify this and confirm with you that the sending or the district of residence doesn't receive adequacy aid for that student. The charter school

[R17373-41] Hope Damon | State Representative, New Hampshire House - Croydon/Sullivan County (s | 2026-05-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: go to a Claremont student attending a Claremont school district would follow that student going to a charter school that happens to be in another community. Am I correct in that? Or if it's not, if it's something you don't know, I just saw that.
TEXT> So. I believe and I will verify this and confirm with you that the sending or the district of residence doesn't receive adequacy aid for that student. The charter school receives funding that's different from adequacy aid. It's about double what adequacy a it's around $10,000 per student per year.  So if students from Claremont enroll in that school in Newport, nothing to do with open enrollment just under the usual premises, then you would not be receiving funding for that student here, except.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Now with Riverview.

[R17373-49] Hope Damon | State Representative, New Hampshire House - Croydon/Sullivan County (s | 2026-05-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's no cost to parents, but it costs the district the adequacy aid, right?
TEXT> Yes, you could phrase it that way. And the other variable would be if the student had an IEP and had special education needs, then there has to be collaboration between Claremont School District and the charter school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: This district is still.

[R17373-55] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report) | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. I'm moving on to the superintendent's report. All that we have is the music department recognition. Do you have other information? Things?
TEXT> I just was following up on the truancy attendance report. Update.  That was asked before, so. Want to make sure. So Scott Maple, who is our attendance officer,  is just has been busy supporting students, staff and families.  So it was asked just since his rehire in December, he has made over 300 home visits since that time and since his start in the position, which was March of 2025, he has made over 700 home visits to establish connections with families, to support court cases and as a follow up to requests from the schools. So this position is helping us reduce the number of students.  Currently, we're at just over 5% of our population who are considered truant. So we're trying to reduce it, obviously, but we appreciate the support for this role.  And appreciate Mr. Maple for all of his work and going to all these home visits to really kind of keep students in school and, you know, and just focus on learning.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I just want to give a quick update on that. Just also there was a special Education Parent Advisory Council meeting on Monday. I appreciate Mr. Madden stopped by

[R17373-57] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report) | 2026-05-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: She was there from the Parent Information Center in Concord, and just shared a lot of resources. And those are linked in there as well. So if families are interested when we get this link, check it out and we'll just, you know, keep working.
TEXT> And again, always supporting any students, but especially our, you know, most vulnerable populations for special education students. So we appreciate your support. In just a quick couple quick thank yous. I know there's a lot of transitions that was happening on Friday.  So just thank you to Courtney Steele for stepping up as acting CMS principal for the end of the year. Even though she's been  writing a lot of it, she's now officially in that capacity.  And Nicole Boynton has shifted over from school. So I appreciate her work. As you know, acting assistant principal at CMS.  I spoke to them on Friday. They were willing to do what was need to be done. I went over there again yesterday  and they are in it and keep them going. And we appreciate all that the work they're doing. Similarly for Maple Avenue, Mr. Blunt is not going to be with us for the rest of the year. Unfortunately. And so Mr. Erwin, who is the assistant principal, basically is stepping up and to be acting principal for the rest of the year. So just publicly appreciating him for all of his work and what he's doing and to support Maple Avenue to so and then just finally, Jen, guess who had been administrative assistant, who had been a few other roles, teacher certification, things like that.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: She unfortunately had left us on Friday. And Mr. Schnitzel last day was on Friday too. So we thank them for their work, wish them well, and then we're working

[R17373-65] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: You're talking about starting in September is would that be correct?
TEXT> Well, yeah, I mean, we've kind of gone past anything reasonable for the rest of this year. But yeah, I mean, in essence there are kids. Yeah. Right. And so this would be an opportunity to bring them back, so to speak.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And I do think it's important to note that the, at the tech center, they do interview this students before they actually enroll them. They conduct interviews to, to ascertain

[R17373-66] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides; calls the meeting to order, controls the | 2026-05-20
PREV> Don Lavalette: Well, yeah, I mean, we've kind of gone past anything reasonable for the rest of this year. But yeah, I mean, in essence there are kids. Yeah. Right. And so this would be an opportunity to bring them back, so to speak.
TEXT> And I do think it's important to note that the, at the tech center, they do interview this students before they actually enroll them. They conduct interviews to, to ascertain their they were level of interest in their seriousness about being students at the tech center. And and so that would, I'm sure be applicable to the any and the students.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: They would welcome it.

[R17373-131] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (same voice as Speaker 8 - the d | 2026-05-20
PREV> Matt Angell: the current operating budget to absorb that deficit. At this time, I'm estimating what's remaining of that $5 million to be approximately $1 million. We are continuing to work to keep our spending to a minimum revenues through the end of April, worth 37,336,000 budgeted.
TEXT> Revenues remaining to be collected were $2,378,000, or 5.99%. Significant revenue transactions during the month of April were  the city's assessment payment, again for $1.675 million. Expenditures through the end of April were 27,806,000. Encumbrances were 11,907,000. The remaining appropriation is 4,265,000 or 10.74%. As you can see, that remaining. I could not cut the entire 5 million out of it. Okay, special education costs earlier, or I may have either spoken publicly or privately about special education. Costs have gone up due to out of district placements.  At the beginning of April, I asked the Student Services Department to review their purchase orders under their control, and I've heard that they were working diligently to tighten up their estimates through the end of the year. When I looked at their efforts  last week,  I was pleased with the results. I believe any increase in costs since April have been offset by,  a reduction in their POS. Okay, it was significant.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank them. Thank you. Yeah.

[R17373-182] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides; calls the meeting to order, controls the | 2026-05-20
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Okay.
TEXT> So so the public can read that for further details, but, it's a it's an elaborate system for replacing all uniforms on a schedule.  And that would include the US,  the schedule. The second item was the state Board of Education,  on May 12th.  I he says I attended the state Board of Education meeting.  Regarding the day and our waiver request from Claremont. And so  we did receive the waiver. Therefore, we can begin to make plans for the end of school.  The third thing he talks about is the closing of, the school. And  on Wednesday and Thursday, June 10th and 11th,  middle school and high school will be in session as normal. Maple and Disney and students will be participating in field A, And Thursday will be the last day for students at Maple and Disney. Friday, June 12th. Is this right? Yes. The last day of school for CMS and the high school,  and Maple and Disney teachers will be concluding packing and closing out responsibilities. And finally, on June 15th, the Monday, it will be teacher work day at all schools. This is intended to for teachers to perform any year end tests. And all staff will be invited to lunch at Stevens High School.  So,  I just wanted to make those announcements because he couldn't be here to make the report himself. And please refer to, the documentation for further explanation.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I could just add, just a reminder to everybody that the Stevens High School graduation is Thursday, June 11th at 6 p.m. in the high school gym. And then

[R17373-193] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: been busy and, I think all of the staff were being proactive this time around and having documents attached to the minutes, I mean, to the agenda, so we can take a look and review this ahead of time. Tell us about the bus contract.
TEXT> I did not include a copy of the proposals because some of it contained, private information that was for each of the bus companies which the proposals were available for you to review. So basically what I did was at the beginning of this calendar year,  we sent out a request for proposal for student regular ed student transportation, and we issued a notice in the local newspaper. We also sent to known providers such as First Student, Butler Star and Durham.  We received two proposals back Butler Transportation and First Student. The difference to me between the two proposals, they were they were fairly close to each other. Okay. However, when the school district also put in a proposal and our number was way off in comparison, which kind of threw me off. And when I started digging into the quality of the information on our side, I found out that special education costs were buried in the regular Ed,  calculation. Okay, so to make this an apples to apples comparison, I asked for Student and Butler Transportation to provide me with a, with a special education quote as well. Okay. And so, I only received a  quote from Butler Education.
NEXT> Matt Angell: And between Butler Education and us were within $40,000 of each other. So, let me just kind of quickly give you the totals between all of them. The school district

[R17373-194] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Matt Angell: in the regular Ed, calculation. Okay, so to make this an apples to apples comparison, I asked for Student and Butler Transportation to provide me with a, with a special education quote as well. Okay. And so, I only received a quote from Butler Education.
TEXT> And  between Butler Education and us were within $40,000 of each other. So,  let me just kind of quickly give you the totals between all of them.  The school district is $1,971,619.  Butler Transportation was $2,011,500, and first student only had regular Ed transportation at 1.1 million. Okay, now. Through this process,  I want to be absolutely clear that that we can identify areas, for, for improvement. Like for example,  right now there are about 20 people who order transportation.  We need to have all transportation orders to be run through.  If the school board approves the,  Claremont School District as the as the service provider, it's all going to run through the transportation coordinator, and it's going to be her responsibility to hire  other companies. And I'm also recommending that we contract with Butler to make up the difference of when we can't provide transportation. Okay.  Right now we have seven different providers that we're contracted with. It would be nice to  have one.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: This is for special education.

[R17373-196] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: This is for special education.
TEXT> That's right. Okay. So  considerations to hiring an outside company could include  it would become the responsibility of the,  of the transportation provider to hire all of their  employees and then also to maintain the fleet of vehicles. Now considerations to maintain in-house service would be a personalized service where,  these employees know us and they know the staff really well. And then also management of all vehicles that transport students. Okay.  The fiscal impact is 1,971,000. And I'm recommending that we continue with our self up, for transportation services. However, to contract with Butler Transportation for any, any other needs that we can't service ourselves.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. You said a lot there. I just so you said that our cost for running the bus was 1,000,009. That's correct. And, Butler had 2 million. One. Yeah.

[R17373-262] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's what. Are we. Really going to be able to do on apples to apples, apples to apples comparison if we don't have data?
TEXT> Really the apples to apples comparison would be really the McKinney Vento example, because that's the one that we've been talking about the most, where we're paying $110,000 for a student.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But if we just figure out exactly what our regular education costs are, we can simply extrapolate out what our special education costs. Would that be easier to just do

[R17373-303] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes, yes.
TEXT> Can you give. Us,  without divulging any confidential or privacy information,  how. And $10,000 for one student is. Is in any way reasonable?
NEXT> Matt Angell: I think it would be better to answer that when I get information with Butler, because then that then we can make an apple apples comparison. You know, I can

[R17373-304] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Don Lavalette: Can you give. Us, without divulging any confidential or privacy information, how. And $10,000 for one student is. Is in any way reasonable?
TEXT> I think it would be better to answer that when I get information with Butler, because then that then we can make an apple apples comparison. You know, I can only make a comparison to my last school district, and we were paying $54,000 to transport a student. So I'm a little shocked with 110. But things have changed since. Since I was.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: 54000 shocks me too. Yeah.

[R17373-335] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (Capital Improvement and Policy subcommittees; dep | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: I'll second. Okay. So Mr. Peterson seconded.
TEXT> So I was on the board when we selected. We did away with our in-house program and we selected fresh picks. There were a lot of things in the contract, a lot of things that they were supposed to provide. They were supposed to source locally. They were supposed to, do special, special meal presentations and let kids try different foods and all this other stuff.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Is that happening?

[R17373-355] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Don Lavalette: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. So,  I have to pull up my, my staff report. Okay. So, There's a school board policy. I'm just going to start off with that. That changed this year and that policy dealt with who has signatory on the contracts. Okay. So  the problem is is is the the student photo contract expired this year. Okay. And what I.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Did not annual.

[R17373-357] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Did not annual.
TEXT> It's not no it was the three year contract. All right. Okay. And so let me kind of describe  how student photos work. Okay.  You have a management company that we hire.  We got three quotes once from Birkdale. The second one's guesses, and the third one's life touch. Okay. So,  two of them use Shutterfly to process all their photos. Okay.  All of them use the same photographers.  All right. So, It's what? Yeah. So gaskets and life touch. Life touch is owned by Shutterfly. Okay. And guess it, contracts out with Shutterfly to process all their photos and they all use the same photographers. So it's when when I'm saying we're picking one or the other. Really what you're doing as a board is you're selecting based upon the price of the what's being charged to the parents. And, and actually the school gets that, each school gets a commission check, and that check goes into a principals fund, where the principal ends up buying boots and hats and gloves and.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Things for students.

[R17373-358] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee; chair of the ad hoc School  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Matt Angell: based upon the price of the what's being charged to the parents. And, and actually the school gets that, each school gets a commission check, and that check goes into a principals fund, where the principal ends up buying boots and hats and gloves and.
TEXT> Things for students.
NEXT> Matt Angell: For students. Okay. So through this process, I asked the building principles to evaluate the, the providers. And, they selected, life Touch. Let me see if I can pull up

[R17373-359] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Things for students.
TEXT> For students. Okay. So through this process, I asked the building principles to evaluate the, the providers. And,  they selected,  life Touch.  Let me see if I can pull up that selection.  And so let's see. Life charge got an 87 points.  Barksdale got 77 points and gaskets got 69. So, through this, I'm recommending that we stay with, life touch. And for the next three years.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It is a three year contract.

[R17373-364] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Don Lavalette: Just a quick question. Where does that how is that money accounted for it within the line items of the budget.
TEXT> It's not. So basically what we're what we're doing is,  Oh, it's this is this is an interesting concept. Okay. So basically,  they're, Oh, what's the word? They're the only provider for student photos. So they they hold the entire market share. So we're doing the evaluation and selecting that one.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Yeah. No, no, I meant when the money goes to the building principals.

[R17373-366] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Don Lavalette: Yeah. No, no, I meant when the money goes to the building principals.
TEXT> It doesn't go through the operating budget. It actually goes into like the student activity fund. So like it's in the same pool of money when you want to send your, your child off to go to the museum and you write money for that.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Yeah. Thanks.

[R17373-464] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Discussion.
TEXT> If I understand this correctly, the student that. I guess my implication the parents get to determine whether or not they take this.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Are capable of and wishes to do so, I think is a little bit, for on purpose. But yeah, I think it's giving students and parents the opportunity to, to

[R17373-571] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee; chair of the ad hoc School  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Don Lavalette: Okay. So. Okay.
TEXT> I think the way we can we can address it possibly is if the amendment if your motion explains why you are recommending that we move forward without the second read and reference the policies, exclusionary, optics,  and then the board can decide whether they agree that this is an emergent or an urgent situation.  And if Lauren said that this is policy we should have had for 20 years, and I think we've been yeah, we've had numerous I mean, my of this is that the policies have been so egregiously neglected. And no matter how hard  our chairs and the policy committees have worked for years on this, we have we have missed really important policies that we haven't addressed because we've had priority policies that we've had to prioritize. Those priority policies superseded the financial policies.  And I mean, I guess what I'm saying is I think it's critical we have our priority policies move through because we're neglecting our educational policies and the stuff that that addresses students and curriculum, because those aren't priority policies. And so for me, there's a level of urgency. I hear what you're saying 100%, I get it. But I, I do have to say, I think there is a level of urgency for us to get our house in order that may warrant us putting the boilerplate kind of policies that appear to have due diligence. And I trust the policy Committee to have done the due diligence.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So that's my position on that.

[R17373-630] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's been a bait for years.
TEXT> Yeah. So again. Future items exit interviews for staff and kids. I'm. I would like to see us at some point move to where we're. If a child's leaving this district, that exit interview, I would say, is more important than anything else we get. And I'm going to suggest there's probably two pivot points where we lose kids after fifth grade and after eighth grade. So at some point down the road, we ought to look at developing an exit interview for parents and students that leave to seek alternative education. Why did they leave? What can we do to bring it back? Right.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay, I've written those down.

[R17373-645] Unidentified | Stevens High School student, Ward 3 - announced the Mary Poppins Jr. p | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes, that's. Yeah. We have a meeting.
TEXT> Yes.  And the cost for the musical is $10 for adults and then $7 for students. So if anyone's interested, should. Check it out. Thank you. Yeah.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Thank you. All right. If I would entertain a motion to adjourn.

[R17397-17] Hilary Walsh | Technology teacher and yearbook adviser, Stevens High School (self-ide | 2026-06-03
PREV> Hilary Walsh: 32 page supplement, right now, which will get direct mail to the seniors and then, in the fall, the rest of the kids will be picked, get it? So we'll have everything from, all the spring sports graduation. So they're working on that, that now.
TEXT> So it went.  Last year we brought it to the school board, put it in the program studies to bring it in as a class. And we had  18 students in it. And it's been challenging but very, very successful as as you can see, we won a little big this year.  We got a little extra help from the alumni Association to help cover the costs of it. It is self-funded, so we have to sell ads and,  get  parent ads and and business ads and sales of the year. Book cover it.  But then I got an email the other night.  Celebrating that we got this award for, for the first time ever.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So fantastic. That's terrific.

[R17397-25] Hilary Walsh | Technology teacher and yearbook adviser, Stevens High School (self-ide | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: So I think it's wonderful that you were able to get this recognition and do so well. You know, this has been such a hard year for everybody, that to have this recognition in this award this year for. This.
TEXT> Came out of nowhere like we had at the beginning of year. We had we had no we had one barely functioning camera.  And. No, we had no money, no cameras. We did get a donation from a class.  I don't remember what class it was. We were able to purchase a camera with that.  Johnston's actually, felt sorry for us, and they gave us some money for a camera. Oh, they donated a camera to us. So,  we were able to get two cameras, and  we take  about 75% of our own pictures. The sports pictures. A lot of them come from Doug.  But other than that, those come from the hard working students, and they do a lot of work outside of school as well as inside of school. Excellent.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Well, I'm so glad you could come tonight and give us an opportunity to recognize your hard work.

[R17397-30] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah.
TEXT> Before you go, could you provide at some point, Noel, the list of all the students, their names so they could be added to the minutes?
NEXT> Hilary Walsh: Yeah, I can email it to you. I don't have it off the top of my head. I want to get the correct spelling out of them.

[R17397-42] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Now we can move on to citizens comments. Are there any citizens who would like to make a comment tonight? All right.  Going once, twice. We'll move on. And I guess the student representatives come to the second reading.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Yes.

[R17397-45] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: And so we won't have that tonight. Okay.
TEXT> Well, we have the current student representative, both seniors and graduating. Will they be here?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So I believe they may be able to come next week or the next meeting on the 17th. We'll have to see, because they're passing their torch, that.

[R17397-63] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Know this is grades.
TEXT> This is stores. Grades all. Parent information on just, you know, names addresses contact things. And you can discipline things like that. That's all stored in this student information system. So just again just a foreshadowing that it will be coming at some point in time. But we're hoping that it'll be a more gradual rollout. And so  I said some key folks will just start working on that more on the data side of it in the summertime.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Questions from the board.

[R17397-112] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: that category, I have a bachelor's degree. Maybe. Maybe not. My dream has been to be a teacher. Maybe I've watched what's been happening in my community this year, and I'm willing to show up and lend a hand. We can work with those folks.
TEXT> The next plan and I know, I know, I think no part of what you might be thinking about. I have also been thinking about. Right. What if we had to think about how many kids and adults are in which building to make things work? So it's not that that's not already happening. We're already talking about it. I am just loathe to jump into a public conversation about those kinds of radical decisions before we've given the first two possibilities a really robust chance.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: My my other. And I understand that all four and kind of being able to bring in bodies into the school. But I have real concerns about learning loss that

[R17397-127] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: the day, I don't care how much Matt cares about student learning and even pay the bills. So it's it's a distinct, universe. The, the biggest change and this isn't I didn't show up and come up with a brilliant idea to save you money.
TEXT> You already did it. But this reflects your budget. When you did the budget for next year, you consolidated some positions. So there's one administrative assistant position. You'll notice if it's highlighted in yellow, that means it's an open position right now. Although in the case of the administrative assistant to work for the director of Human resources and myself, I think we're about to fill that,  which will be wonderful. But until that's official, that's that's a TBD.  And that's a consolidation of what used to be three different positions in the essay. But again, you did that in the budget. It's not new, but that does mean that this plan fits in the approved budget for fiscal 27. That's important. And then on the other page, which in some ways might be more important,  I've added these these circles or ovals. There's actually more in them now than there was when I sent you this first draft.  That breaks down who, who in the schools is supervised by each administrator. And then I used blue. I just put in another color what they're sort of area of areas of responsibility might be. And one of the big reasons for that is  Claremont's been functioning with a director of Student Services essay level position.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's extremely challenging to find an individual qualified to fill all of those roles, and it is an area where Claremont has struggled to find folks who could meet all

[R17397-128] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: each administrator. And then I used blue. I just put in another color what they're sort of area of areas of responsibility might be. And one of the big reasons for that is Claremont's been functioning with a director of Student Services essay level position.
TEXT> It's extremely challenging to find  an individual qualified to fill all of those roles, and it is an area where Claremont has struggled to find folks who could meet all those responsibilities successfully. That's not a criticism of an individual. It's just been a huge amount of work. Many of these responsibilities, particularly under what I've called a director of school counseling, did not exist 25 years ago in our public schools. So in some way, there's been mission creep here where 20 years ago, we could have had a director of student services, and it meant special ed, but now there's a k k through 12 comprehensive school counseling program, a civil rights officer, many more 504 plans. Even though the law that creates that includes section 504 has existed for a long time, we have many more 504 plans and much more 504 administration in our schools than we did even ten years ago. We have state law around annual suicide awareness and prevention efforts that were required to execute. We have initiatives. Some of this can be funded through a grant program that the district has been struggling to actually expend in full in it. Since I wrote this report, I learned that there might be a funding opportunity in that column from that grant.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So more to come. Again, I really like to try to talk about something in a board meeting weeks or months before it's time to take action. You might get

[R17397-131] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (org chart - qualifications for a director of scho | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> So  I am interested about I know that we're not going to make any decisions, but to your point. So the director of student counseling, what kind of qualification differentials, differentiation, differentiation would you have between the director of special education and the school counseling? So it sounds like right now, the way we have been running things our social workers have been almost working with, with our,
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: All. Of this is part of what I would call special ed right now.

[R17397-150] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Don Lavalette: I didn't see it.
TEXT> So the district owns or leases a vehicle. So it has to be owned or leased by the school district. Then any employee get ready, meaning ending employee can drive students from a school to a school sponsored event, athletic, extracurricular or whatever, and back to the school. But even if the district owns or leases the vehicle school to home and home to school transportation requires a special license. So anytime somebody is being asked to transport a child from their home to wherever they're receiving their educational services, whether it's in the district or out of district, it requires a special license  from the Department of Safety or the Department of I forget, but a special license.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: All right. Fair enough. I didn't see it in December, January, February minutes. So, second question was, just to follow up, we talked before about using bus drivers in the

[R17397-192] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: year where if we weren't starting before Labor Day and a lot of districts fell into a real problem with this, because there are a lot of districts where it's very important that the school boards in the community, that school never starts before labor.
TEXT> I don't know if you've looked at next year's calendar. Labor day is late, very late. So if we weren't starting in August, we'd be looking at school the the very last week of next June. So this is how it starts, right? So what's happened here is someone and I'm not going to figure out who. And if I did, I probably wouldn't choose not to tell you because it doesn't matter. Some number of years ago figured out, well, if we just count ours in the first place, we only have to have 100 and 72.5 days and did it. Then you have a few snow days and realize, oh no, we are really short  hours based on this calendar.  We just can't let that happen again. Now look, will I come to you with 180 days with students? Actually, I probably won't after all this telling you, we're supposed to do that under the regulation. And here's the reason. And it's in here. If you read between the lines, we need to give teachers a couple days that they don't normally have in Claremont before school starts to unpack their rooms, get set up at the high school. There's productive work that can be done.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: They're preparing for a visit. I there's no end of things that can be done that will be productive with the staff at the middle school, right. Particularly multi-tiered systems

[R17397-195] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent (fragment 'So you're in' opening his own 'So y | 2026-06-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: the calendar is going to fall. Do we have a definitive day? I we working from excuse me, a set day for the start and looking to see where we'll fall at the end? Or are we looking to move both ends of the calendar.
TEXT> So you're in. A unique situation where typically,  labor agreements include that we will work together to discuss best calendar ideas, but the board retains the authority to set the calendar, which is a nice way of saying we'll listen, but we won't necessarily agree.  It's been a hard year. I think it will be very nice to agree, and that's what I expect to happen. And I think I can manage that between now  and July. I don't think starting having kids start school than you were already planning. I guess I could imagine it might end up on the table, but that would seem a little weird to me. I think we're talking about some days at the end of the year, and then we've got some work to do to accommodate teachers needs prior to the opening. But but is there a scenario where I think Brian will be talking in July about a first day of school on like August 23rd or something? No thank you. I don't think anyone would anyone, anyone would want to have that conversation.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I'm just I'm just feeling it'd be nice to be able to give a definitive date before the school year is over. Where we're starting. That's.

[R17397-197] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: I'm just I'm just feeling it'd be nice to be able to give a definitive date before the school year is over. Where we're starting. That's.
TEXT> We might be able to do that. We might be able to do that part. Actually, I have a conversation scheduled for Friday, so that might be possible just to take everyone's temperature on that, because I have a feeling that all parties will agree. The first days for kids, might be exact, might be exactly what's already on the calendar, the last day of school, the last days of school. Here  are around the 12th, right? Most schools are going to school longer than that, right? In New Hampshire, mine are right. That these days have been taken out of June. Is the way it looks historically right? It's been an earlier end. It doesn't change the start. That's what I would anticipate. I can confirm that for you at your next meeting.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And we need yeah. Yeah, we need that information. But I, I see him bringing back the proposed changes in the calendar, in, in July and, and I'm sure he

[R17397-200] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: to know. We've heard this new guy says we're going to have a new calendar. What the heck's that going to look like? July 21st, the board will consider and probably approve a new calendar. And I just think the community might want to know.
TEXT> And Brian, I think those were fair questions. Does the first day of school change and kids. Yeah, it sounds like no, but but it looks like at the end there might be some changes for kids, but we will talk about and we will have ten months notice of it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah, I'm less concerned about the end of the year. I'm more concerned getting out as early as getting to parents as early as possible. I don't want to get

[R17397-201] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (term to 2029; deputy fire chief; refers to 'my pr | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: fair questions. Does the first day of school change and kids. Yeah, it sounds like no, but but it looks like at the end there might be some changes for kids, but we will talk about and we will have ten months notice of it.
TEXT> Yeah, I'm less concerned about the end of the year. I'm more concerned getting out as early as getting to parents as early as possible. I don't want to get kids will start.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I'm at the beginning here, right with you, with our labor partners in Claremont. I don't want to get ahead of anyone here tonight. Sure, I, I will be very

[R17397-202] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yeah, I'm less concerned about the end of the year. I'm more concerned getting out as early as getting to parents as early as possible. I don't want to get kids will start.
TEXT> I'm at the beginning here, right with you, with our labor partners in Claremont.  I don't want to get ahead of anyone  here tonight. Sure, I, I will be very surprised if we're talking about a different first day for students, but I would almost guarantee we're talking about different last days.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: That's fair.

[R17397-234] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Other questions for Matt. Okay. Let's go on to the follow up items from Carrie. Don had asked about the Riverview partnership for the tech program.
TEXT> Sure. So we're looking  forward to having some students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We're going to reach out.

[R17397-236] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: We're going to reach out.
TEXT> Miss Harrington and I spoke about making sure we connect with Riverview.  So if a student resides in the same district as the CTE center, they're eligible for enrollment. So we're hoping to make sure that the students are able to access that programing. And. Maybe to, you know, participate and help fill our classes and all of the, you know, the CTE programs. So we want to make sure that that's happening and we'll be getting it going.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And and I would like to add that only if there are slots over that.

[R17397-247] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Only there are slots.
TEXT> I have yet to to hear anybody say that it's always been listed as if we take a couple more kids, it won't change anything. So we're not talking a large number of kids at Riverview. There's probably less than 20 total and I'm going to guess less than three. Maybe have an interest in coming here.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So they're Claremont kids? Yeah they are. Right. Well some.

[R17397-248] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Don Lavalette: listed as if we take a couple more kids, it won't change anything. So we're not talking a large number of kids at Riverview. There's probably less than 20 total and I'm going to guess less than three. Maybe have an interest in coming here.
TEXT> So they're Claremont kids? Yeah they are. Right. Well some.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Of them are. I mean, most.

[R17397-255] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. If there are any other questions on this. Yes, please.
TEXT> Okay. So we have a few programs that we offer for the summer.  We have summer camp and then we have extended school year which is called EC and then credit recovery. So I just want to make sure we clear on those right now.  There are grants that are helping to sponsor some of these programs too. So summer camps for students in need of an academic boost based on teacher recommendations. These students will be with us this summer to continue to strengthen academic skills in tier one.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So easy.

[R17397-259] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Is a camp.
TEXT> It's not the same as the one. No, it is not. I'll get into why in a moment. Okay. So this is specifically just tier one students not on IEP students who,  you know, are in danger of just needing some more support, things like that that they were able to offer through a grant. We have a CSI grant that we were able to pay for these. So it's not locally funded. And this is just to support some students who just need some extra boost and things. Again, it has to be a teacher recommendation. Extend school year is for students who are in IEP limited, though it's only students who  have you know, their progress would be really hampered if they did not continue. There's a variety of programs where students, really need to just maintain,  their work that they're doing in a variety of settings, and it's very specific. The school, the teams approve of that, and it's in. If they don't maintain this work, there's no way that they're able to continue on. You know, that way for the next year or so.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And this would be part of.

[R17397-264] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: this course, they have to be within so many points of actually passing this course. So if you're so, so far behind, this is not what it's going to be for its students that just need this extra boost to get that course recovery credit.
TEXT> You know, Mimi Ryan's and Doctor  Harrington here ones, they could answer that. But that's a very small group of students as well that are eligible for this. They can't be, you know, 70 points away from passing. You know, there's there's ability of a window for them to be able to make up  and then to earn that. If not, they would have to necessarily take the whole course again.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: In the budget. Where is this credit recovery listed?

[R17397-278] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: The two day after.
TEXT> So for students.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It was like. It'll be July 6th. There were run to August 7th. It will be Monday, Monday through Thursday noon to I say it doing it backwards nine to

[R17397-280] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: PRF should all be in by Friday. So I have everything set by then. We've been slowly working on it. We got the approval to do it. Not that long ago. So we've been trying to work as quickly as possible to get it done.
TEXT> And the staffing, like the staff prep, will probably be July 7th, which is a Tuesday after the fourth. To give people that long weekend for the fourth is a fourth is on on Saturday this year. So the first day for students would be the eighth.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Oh that's right.

[R17397-285] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (credit recovery and vape detectors; AS | 2026-06-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: you've completed summer school. I will say that sometimes you can come up with staffing. Sometimes people are out for various reasons, so other staff might cover those kids for that day. So they're the kids are supervised and worked with. So that has happened.
TEXT> And I think it's really,  to look at it from a big picture, right? It's like, do you have some kids that will go in and finish that in a couple of days? Absolutely. Right. When you look at this credit recovery and what credit recovery it is, is meeting the competency to pass passing is a 70. So if you come in and you have an Re which is recovery eligible, and you're coming in with a 69, you know, for two classes and you got to meet a competency of one average point. You don't need to be there that long. However if you come in and you've got 2 or 3 classes and you're sitting at a 42 for a couple of them, you have more work to do. So there is a there is a group of kids that barely missed it, and they're not going to be there that long, and they're not going to need a lot of time. There are some kids that are going to need a little bit more intensive work.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: How can a student who say has a 42? How can they possibly think that they can get the credit recovery in six weeks from going after a full year

[R17397-286] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: a there is a group of kids that barely missed it, and they're not going to be there that long, and they're not going to need a lot of time. There are some kids that are going to need a little bit more intensive work.
TEXT> How can a student who say has a 42? How can they possibly think that they can get the credit recovery in six weeks from going after a full year and ending at 42, that they can recover in six weeks.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So what this is, is what you're doing is you're looking at the the competencies, right? And you have to prove that they have, again, not mastered but showed proficiencies

[R17397-287] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (credit recovery and vape detectors; AS | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: How can a student who say has a 42? How can they possibly think that they can get the credit recovery in six weeks from going after a full year and ending at 42, that they can recover in six weeks.
TEXT> So what this is, is what you're doing is you're looking at the the competencies, right? And you have to prove that they have, again, not mastered but showed proficiencies in those competencies. So where they may have showed competent proficiency in several competencies and only working on 1 or 2. It's possible. And again we're not talking.  You've got an A. Now we're talking. You're you're you're a C student, right. Okay.  And I believe prior to my time, it used to be a 50. And then I think it was a drop down of 45.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah.

[R17397-299] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (credit recovery and vape detectors; AS | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Will they be. Will they be participating in graduation activities?
TEXT> You do not. I am incredibly clear with the,  students and parents. If you have not met every single criteria for graduation, you do not walk across that stage. Okay. And I met with every single student a couple weeks ago that was possibly at risk, called their parents with them and said if they don't get this 69 to a 70, they do not walk. So there is no surprises.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. So if there are 5 or 6 staff members and it runs for 5 or 6 weeks, those 5 or 6 staff would not be employed for 5

[R17397-302] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: Correct. Yes. So if you have so if science is and again this is all done by certification area. So if there is no one that needs to work on science after the first week, that science teacher is not showing up anymore. Okay. Correct.
TEXT> I will say that didn't happen last year. There was kids there for the subject from start to finish. But again, there's always a chance that they could be completed. And no kids are you know, there each. I have a very big spreadsheet. I use recovery and so I break it down by subject and grades. It's lots of fun. And each,  subject has a list of kids who are coming for that subject.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: And I will say, I believe originally a couple of years ago, we were sitting at about 28, maybe $30,000. Last year we did it for under 15.

[R17397-307] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: It's a better use of funds and time and cut the cost of it. What is.
TEXT> What is the percentage of students who successfully complete the summer school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Credit recovery?

[R17397-314] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: It's successfully complete the credit recovery from which they've signed it.
TEXT> They show up and they work with the teachers. And the likelihood they will be successful. Right. There are students who don't show up and I call their parents. I email them, I call them, you know, I contact them every, every which way short of skywriting on their, you know, the skies. But sometimes these don't show up because there's, there's custody agreements that mean they're not in the state for the summer. They have to work, which we do work on for you if we can, obviously. But there are kids who just don't show up for summer school, you know, they're able to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so they they do not know.

[R17397-316] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: And so they they do not know.
TEXT> So next year they go right back into like, for instance, if a kid fails English one and gets an RV for English one doesn't come summer school. Soccer year, they're right back in English one.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So yeah. Okay. Thank you.

[R17397-325] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Matt Angell: other school districts, the high school in the middle school usually have the same meal prices. I didn't want to broach that as a, you know, to try to cross that bridge this year. So, I'm just recommending a 25, set increase in prices across.
TEXT> Is that level of cost reimbursable for students?
NEXT> Matt Angell: Well, if needed. Okay. So to be reimbursable, you have to your household income has to hit a certain threshold. Okay. And so when it hits, a certain threshold for

[R17397-326] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (finance update, school lunch pr | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Is that level of cost reimbursable for students?
TEXT> Well, if needed. Okay. So to be reimbursable, you have to your household income has to hit a certain threshold. Okay. And so when it hits, a certain threshold for reduced, the students only pay $0.40. It doesn't matter what we're charging, it's always $0.40. And if they're free, then it's free. And so,  in, in all the meal prices, because we have three different meal prices. Yes. We get money from the USDA, the federal government.  We we received money from the state and,  to, to offset the cost of the meals, including paid meals. So,  so even though I'm recommending an increase to $4, the federal government is kicking in a little bit just to subsidize it.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Questions from the board? Yes.

[R17397-332] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (Ad Hoc School Reconfiguration Exploratory Committ | 2026-06-03
PREV> Matt Angell: And so basically. The, the poverty limit is the is the cutoff between free meals, and then it's just paid meals after that. Okay. And, so basically the district would have to supplement the paid meals.
TEXT> So I think what you're talking about is the Bluff School at a higher concentration of kids that fell in under that threat or at the threshold. And so because of that, that particular school got different pricing through federal and state.
NEXT> Matt Angell: But the problem is, is, is when we get to when we when we disperse the kids throughout the district, it brings the poverty rate down in each of the

[R17397-400] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (credit recovery and vape detectors; AS | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: sure that something's going on. Which is much lower standard that the police have to meet. You know, so, I mean, I like all my students to know that when they're in the bathroom and that vape detector goes off, that standard is now met.
TEXT> So I can go get them. I can ask them to come down to my office, and I can give them the whole spiel about the search.  Many of the times students will sit here and just give me what they have because I say, if you're honest, this is easy and I can cut you a little slack if you're not going to find something. Well, there's something else.  Will I tell you that there are students who know which bathrooms don't have vape detectors? Do they go in there a lot?  I believe so. I believe there's. For. The high school. There's two. I'm asking  for two to go in there. One of them is the nurse's bathroom.  So that would help out. And then there's another bathroom in the cafeteria, which is used a lot I want them to use. This is also for the tech. There are  no vape detectors in the tech.  And the tech director has heard about how  nice it is to have them. Okay. And helpful. You know, and.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Would these be covered by the school district budget or these grant funded?

[R17397-468] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: So, you know, you might go and not be let in. So there is that. Other comments. Questions?
TEXT> I got a couple. One. This one's positive. So the alumni parade is coming up on June 13th. And so I mean the debt of gratitude the city owes the alumni association you can't measure. So I'm hopeful that we see a lot of our sports kids there and drama and all that. We should be well represented. We owe the alumni association a lot. So June 13th, that's the place to be. Parade starts at 1030, if I'm not mistaken.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And genders follow up to that. I've been working with Miss Kennedy and, to have a recognition at the next board meeting for the alumni Association. We have a recognition,

[R17418-6] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> And and for. For the females. I'm sorry, Dick, not you. I don't. Know what to do. And this is just an appreciation, really? We we can't tell you how much we appreciate it. You have no idea. And when I say the students, the teachers, the community, everyone is so grateful for the work you did this year. So you, Alex. And thank you. And thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[R17418-40] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: citizens who would like to make a comment tonight? It's a quiet crowd. All right. We're going to move on to the superintendents report. And first of all, Carrie Kennedy is going to talk to us about graduation and in the year update. Okay, great.
TEXT> I have a lot of. Great news. To share. Thank you everybody. Just a few reminders. So before I get started. So our EC services will be provided, starting July 7th through July 30th for students who are eligible.  And those will be Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. And then the summer camp program will be July 6th through July 31st, Mondays and Fridays. So we just want to make sure folks are aware. They've been invited and they should be ready to go.  So we had a lot of great celebrations last week. It was a very busy week, but wonderful.  We had ended with the CMS recognition for our eighth graders. We celebrated 103 eighth graders who are moving on to high school.  We had their ceremony. They went back to CMS for a dance afterwards and signed rear books. And we thank all of the administrators and staff of CMS and Officer Simons and Sally for their support of this effort. And we do wish a great next steps to the eighth graders in Santa Fe School. We celebrated over 85 high school seniors as they walked across the stage. They had class night last week, senior breakfast  and several other celebrations.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And we celebrated everything that was happening with their, post-grad night party. And we really want to thank the rec center and all the families, and everybody showed up for

[R17418-41] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: support of this effort. And we do wish a great next steps to the eighth graders in Santa Fe School. We celebrated over 85 high school seniors as they walked across the stage. They had class night last week, senior breakfast and several other celebrations.
TEXT> And we celebrated everything that was happening with their, post-grad night party. And we really want to thank the rec center and all the families, and everybody showed up for that and donations and money. The businesses donated a lot of, gift certificates, cash, you name it. And so it was great to have everybody there. And it was a nice, safe event, as always. And it's a long night, but a very memorable and wonderful night. And so we appreciate all the support for that and making it happen. So after graduation, the students have to show up.  At about 10:00 at night. And they say there's little five in the morning and they have a whole variety of activities planned. It's fabulous. It's a wonderful time,  and it's in a great way to keep the students safe after graduation. So we appreciate all the support for that.  And we just want to thank everybody for the scholarship sponsors. There was over $100,000 in scholarships that were given out on class night  for our seniors, and this makes college possible for those who are, you know, moving on to college.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And there's a variety of people, and it's always bittersweet because many of them are memorials. And so we recognize the sponsorship for the families and things too, and so

[R17418-52] Heather Whitney | School Board member; Finance Subcommittee | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Justice within the district. And page is moving on to Plainfield Cornish. You appreciate. All they've done. Sure.
TEXT> Thank you. And I just had one other question. Sure. It's okay. We were lucky enough to have some of us were lucky enough to attend the graduation. And I have to say, it was like, one of the best things. I mean, really, it was. It was classy. It was organized. It just. And I. And I had a kid that crossed the stage, and this was better. I mean, not not not in my heart, but a little bit, like, optics are a lot better. So I really appreciate all the work that happened.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Good.

[R17418-55] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: question there. I related to the graduation numbers. We had a projected enrollment of 120, and the number of graduates was in the 80s. Is that people that just didn't walk, that they were not to walk? There's a contingency that chose not to walk.
TEXT> Yes. And there are some students who are doing their extended learning opportunities.  We're hoping to actually do some more work in August.  For students who were not were, you know, this close but not quite ready to do that. We did say that they had to have everything completed. So just people. So we're hoping in August to have another one. Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think it was 88 graduates.

[R17418-67] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026) | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you for that. Yeah.
TEXT> There have been questions here in meetings and some offline about summer programs at the school. So there are there are three. There might be a fourth one I haven't found out about, but there are three main summer programs taking place during the month of July. First is the camp program that runs here at the Tech Center.  It is relatively small. 6 or 7 staff participate. It's funded entirely by a federal grant, the Perkins five grant, that exists under the Carl de Perkins Career and Technical Education Act.  It has been set up, or at least all the paperwork is in process. It exists. The staff have been selected again. It might still be sitting in the business office, but it's happening. And there's a funding source under that grant program. The Esy or Extended School Year program is a special ed program for students who qualify for summer services based on their individualized education plans, their IEPs. Is why programing is funded in the fiscal 27 operating budgets. Because on July 1st, you move into a new budget year.  For a total of just over well of $120,866.65.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Sometimes I start writing about or slightly more than or roughly, and then I put in the exact number other times. Anyway, you get the idea. About 121 little under

[R17418-68] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026) | 2026-06-17
PREV> Tim Broadrick: students who qualify for summer services based on their individualized education plans, their IEPs. Is why programing is funded in the fiscal 27 operating budgets. Because on July 1st, you move into a new budget year. For a total of just over well of $120,866.65.
TEXT> Sometimes I start writing about or slightly more than or roughly, and then I put in the exact number  other times. Anyway, you get the idea. About 121 little under $121,000. We have received all of the contract requests for employees to work in the s y program, and there's always some need for evaluation work to be done over the summer. Students come into the district. There's some work that's just not done at the end of the year to evaluate students eligibility for IEPs and to write IEPs. That also requires contracting staff to come in and do that work. We couldn't find another place in the approved budget that made sense. But here in the s y lines did. So those costs are also now in the process of being encumbered up to a total for both S.Y. and that summer evaluation work of 121,497 and $0.59, which is about a half a percent over the total in those budget lines. But these are not to exceed pay by the hour contracts with employees.  Already in the last 24 hours, there's been a little rush of, oh, we might need more of this and less of that, and things will shift around.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: But, you know, staying knowing where the money is coming from is important, right? We can spend each dollar one time and sticking to, you know, sometimes you will go

[R17418-149] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026) | 2026-06-17
PREV> Don Lavalette: to describe other teachers that weren't coming back. And I'm going to hold off naming names, but I just want you to be aware that that was brought to me, and I promised a parent I would address it. And so I'm sure they're watching.
TEXT> Madam Chair. May I say something about that? Okay. You know, I think if you reflect on. Your experience. Last fall, right. You had no ballpark. And I know that you know, all the painful details, and I apologize. All ballpark based on what I think I've heard. So you had about 20 employees who had been hired who never got to start. Right. And let's say half of those were supposed to be working at the middle school. So now you have a middle school that might have had 40 teachers or plans to have 40 teachers, and now ten of them don't show up. What happened next? More left. And I think as we think about the best way to manage the number of students, the number of buildings and the staff we have available when we get to this point during July, remember that it might not be safe to assume that we could just send seventh or eighth graders, or both over to Stevens and tell those teachers to teach them and expect them to do it. It might create additional destabilization, it might create other problems. And this is what I'm talking was talking. About before.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: If it's possible, just if it's possible, I will be trying to find a way to let you keep the status quo so that we can spend a year really

[R17418-163] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: $1,002 bills one month.
TEXT> I'm sorry, $1,002 bills. And so each student got between 3 and 6, $2 bills. And their payouts ranged between $11 and $65 for attendance.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Wow. That's pretty good point.

[R17418-242] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Oh, no.
TEXT> Okay.  All right.  Follow up item is,  bus aids between runs, and I think that will be addressed in July. With the new superintendent. We'll talk about it then. Okay.  I think we're going to move into, discussion action items. The first one is the closure of Bluff School Student Activities Fund. And Mr. Angel, you can explain this one.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R17418-245] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Matt Angell: building principal for Bluff Elementary gave me all the records that he had for the student activity funds, and unfortunately, it didn't contain, the information by grade level. So I'm going to assume that the balance that's in there is related to the principal's account.
TEXT> Okay. Now, normally what I find in school districts is there's going to be a school board policy that talks about the closure of student activity funds.  I couldn't find one specifically to point on this. Okay.  All I found were two policies. One dealt with fundraising. We need to get  the building principals authority.  The next one deals with how the building principles to manage the funds. Okay. In this particular case, what I'm going to ask you to do is to allocate the fund for Bluff Elementary School.  To Disney and to Maple. Based upon the number of students that went to each of the schools. Okay. In this particular case, 43 students went to Dessner and 80 students went to Maple. So, Dessner would get a $2,295 check that, the building principal would put into the principal's fund for the purpose of buying boots. Hats. Okay.  And then Maple would get $4,272. So the total amount to be allocated is $6,567. So I'm making a recommendation for the school board to authorize me to close that student activity fund account.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I'll make that motion for you that we do that, and then we allocate those funds, as you indicated. I'll make that motion.

[R17418-315] Don Lavalette | School Board member (uncertain - he is the volunteer-painting lead bei | 2026-06-17
PREV> Loren Howard: Just keep us in the loop if there are. Any dates. And if you need warm bodies, I'll find some.
TEXT> Awesome. Thank you. I think we'll probably want to try to get some kids that need some hours as well. Sure. That you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Make sure. You make sure you call Nate.

[R17418-330] Loren Howard | School Board member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Opposed? Nay. Motion carries. Okay. Next.
TEXT> This is just a request to follow up with the PhD candidate who had an interest in doing, I think, Minecraft study and how children can work in these virtual environments to be educated. So I wasn't sure where that was at. I think we were told it was going to be summer when we heard back. So I don't think we're supposed to have heard anything that we missed. Just wanted that on a,
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I was speaking to Erin and get back.

[R17566-7] Courtney Porter | Presenter of the staff recognition - introduced by the chair (004: 'Co | 2026-09-02
PREV> Courtney Porter: filled the bags with the same items each week and delivered the number of requested bags to each school. When the school district started providing breakfast, Trinity stopped the breakfast program because we wanted to be good neighbors and not compete with the school district.
TEXT> The students that came to our church would walk to school every day.  The Weekend Food Bag program is completely sponsored by grants through Claremont Savings Bank. And that's her story of the food.  I now would like to ask Mrs. Hall to come up and share with you her story of the high set here in Claremont.
NEXT> Unidentified: Just for you.

[R17566-10] Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall | Adult education / HiSET volunteer (draft minutes) - recognized by the  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: is a GED now. But it's all computer based. And so they don't have an option to take it as a paper based test. They I have been asked, can we just take a high set and mix it? No, sorry. You can't. And so.
TEXT> The high set was chosen by the Doe. It's both paper based and computer based. And  it's the   only  we have a paper based site in Claremont. It's the only paper based site west of Concord.  And.  So  we   have a number of Claremont kids who can walk to the site at the tech center.   We give it up here at the tech center in the conference room. And. I  was surprised to find that it wasn't just Claremont kids. We have people coming in from Charlestown.  Lebanon sent us a whole lot of  students. And. Enfield,  Canaan,  Hillsborough,  New Boston,  Nashua, Alexandria and Keene. And I'm sure I've probably missed something some  some town, but. They're just looking to take it as a paper based test. They register online and they pay for the high set online,  and  they use a debit card or a credit card. There are individual tests that have  a scaled score  that somewhere between 1 and 20.  There are about 60 questions. There are 60 questions  on the  individual test. And their answers are weighted.  And there are easy, medium and hard questions.  Easy question would be recall and  comprehension.  And medium questions would measure application and synthesis.  And hard questions would measure analysis in the.
NEXT> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: Scores on the individual. Tests have total somewhere that totals somewhere between 15 and 26, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 24, all labeled as college ready. And it will

[R17566-11] Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall | Adult education / HiSET volunteer (draft minutes) - recognized by the  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: questions. There are 60 questions on the individual test. And their answers are weighted. And there are easy, medium and hard questions. Easy question would be recall and comprehension. And medium questions would measure application and synthesis. And hard questions would measure analysis in the.
TEXT> Scores on the individual. Tests  have total somewhere that totals somewhere between 15 and 26, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 24,  all labeled as college ready. And it will say that right on the individual test score  and the lowest passing score is eight.  And  you definitely have to get more than eight on some of your tests to pass the whole high set, because  the lowest score that you could have total would be a 45. Eight times five is  40  and you wouldn't make it. And I have  only encountered one student who had that happen to him.  And. So I  asked him, well, which of these other courses have you taken that you think  you could improve if you took it again? And  he picked that course and,  and took  a retake on that one and got enough points to get his high set. So.  The high set  is the, you know, kids had  kids get a  high school equivalency and it counts as a, as a completer for the school district they're coming from.  And  so as far as the state would be concerned, any student who came from Stevens, who  scores, Who passes the high set is a graduate of Stevens.
NEXT> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: So the other program, there was another program that was really very awesome at the Claremont, the Claremont Adult High School, and at the Claremont Adult High School. They offered

[R17566-12] Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall | Adult education / HiSET volunteer (draft minutes) - recognized by the  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: school equivalency and it counts as a, as a completer for the school district they're coming from. And so as far as the state would be concerned, any student who came from Stevens, who scores, Who passes the high set is a graduate of Stevens.
TEXT> So the other program, there was another program that was really very  awesome at  the Claremont, the Claremont Adult High School,  and  at the Claremont Adult High School. They  offered courses online and from Edmonton  and  and students would come in from other  schools, sometimes from Stevens and  say that they. They needed to graduate and they didn't have enough credits. So  what we would do is look at the credits that they have. If they had a lot of credits  that they needed, probably their best option would be to try to pass the high set.  If  they could get. If they had 1 or 2 courses that they needed, they could easily make a choice between taking  the Edmonton courses, which will take them a fair amount of time, at least six months.  And. Or they could take the high set.  And  either if they  take the courses, they would get a diploma from the Claremont Adult High School.  If they take  the high set, they would get a certificate from the state that says that they have passed.  They have they are considered a graduate.  So   that's  the story.  And. If you have questions, I could answer them maybe.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Jackie, I'm delighted that you're sharing much of this information. I know you and I have talked a number of times over the past few years your concern about adult

[R17566-55] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 - delivers the | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: you might have questions for them. That's we'll see how that works. But it's a start anyway. So first of all, we have Carrie Kennedy with the curriculum instruction and and assessment report. And I know that there is information here for you regarding that.
TEXT> There's an update in here about the attendant, excuse me, the enrollment for students.  And that is as of today. So   down just a little bit. But we're still working on all of the enrollment processes. So many weeks we should probably have a better number  on everybody's landing. So we're getting everybody ready next Tuesday. Just remind everybody kindergarten starts on the ninth. And so we are up in our kindergarten numbers this year as well. So we're very pleased about that.  We have.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Just interrupt you while you're there. Sure. For people who are following this online this is in the board packet. Is that correct, Carrie?

[R17566-71] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 - delivers the | 2026-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> And more materials are coming in very  soon. So we appreciate everybody. Stations, as we finalize this,  we have   a question that had come up about the difference between extended school year and credit recovery. And so I just want to take a few moments to review that. And so  the extended school year is a special ed  program that  services, I should say, is on a program and services that provided to students. So then they have  IEPs that would cover their individual education program, that might have speech or occupational therapy or physical therapy. So those students who are getting the easy services have their minutes that are in their IEPs. It might be 30 minutes of speech once a week  or twice a week. They try and combine it sometimes and that depends on their IEP. So it's not like a full program where a student gets dropped off at 8 to 3 every day. And so this is meeting their minutes of service for their IEP. Whereas the credit recovery  is a program is similar, but it's for high school students. And  that is the ability for students who did not earn all their credits to be able to come back in, meet with their teachers, go over their assignments, do a few  activities to go along with your assignments, and then they get a chance to check in with their their teacher, their advisor  and then really go through.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: It's still similar. It's not summer school also where it's like you come in from 8 to 3. And so summer school is specifically that that's a program. It's designed

[R17566-73] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 - delivers the | 2026-09-02
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: their life skills, their special needs, self-contained program time. And then the high school. There was also the students in there. So again, those are minutes of service for their IPS, not a summer school program. And just, you know, again for the credit recovery.
TEXT> So one thing and I appreciate Doctor Harrington's feedback from the staff. It's a little bit trickier to go back into the summer for something that might have happened in the first quarter, second quarter, third quarter. So we put it into the grant. We're trying to work on  being a little bit more timely in the credit recovery. So if the course was in the first quarter,  in that first quarter time, they would be able to potentially earn the credit back at that time, as was to wait until the  following summer. And so I think that's a model of anything you wanted to add to that, for sure.  I think that's something worth looking at and what we can do to make sure all the students get to their credit recovery. And we again, similar to what missile was saying, is to have enough students to get their graduation credits and go through the finish line. So  hopefully that clarified a little bit about credit recovery.  Again, all of these   services and programs that we do offer are data driven. They are making sure that the students are getting what they need,  and that it needs a minute to service for compliance.
NEXT> Unidentified: As well.

[R17566-77] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Thank you  for the update on great minds. Just a couple of quick things.  Have we connected with Riverview regards to student participation here?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Are working on that still and I apologize. And so I know Miss Harrington is reaching out and I'll get an update for that and see where we're at.

[R17566-83] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Others? Yes.
TEXT> Do you have any insight? I appreciate the numbers coming,  but it looks like we have a decrease in our  total student population. Of roughly 17.  Do we? Where did we lose and where did we recapture? So I guess what I was looking for is how many students did we lose  because they voluntarily left the district or felt compelled to leave the district from 25 to 26? Have we captured those students?   Do we know  who they are? I guess, and. Kind of want to know how we're going to we're going to  get these folks back in with us.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So that's a question for follow up.

[R17566-85] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So that's a question for follow up.
TEXT> Yeah, I think it's really important that we figure out what what what we can do to bring students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Those students.

[R17566-86] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah, I think it's really important that we figure out what what what we can do to bring students.
TEXT> Those students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah, we engage them.

[R17566-96] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: You may be allowed to speak for a moment. We'll explain that.
TEXT> So we we are being granted  a tremendous. Amount of grace by both the Department of Education and the Department of Revenue Administration. And I've described in this document how I'm navigating that process with them.  The tax rate will be set with no delay in Claremont,  based on what we're able to predict to their satisfaction, our per pupil spending estimate will be released on time with every other school districts in the States this early January. Again, by then, they'll have our DOA 25 data in  their good partners, and we're going to be fine. I'm also keeping unity in the loop on all of this, to make sure that their fiscal 26 end of your data goes in under the same  circumstances as ours.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Good. Any questions on this part of his report? Heather?

[R17566-144] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Okay.
TEXT> But  I just I need to see those processes tighten up is all. So this is a good question Mr. Madden. And I'm glad we're having this conversation in public.  If if a federal law like McKinney Vento  mandates that a school district provide daily transportation to a student who qualifies as homeless,  and the only service we can find is going to bill $500 a day. You will never not see that on a voucher. And you will.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Say, I understand that, but you're putting into process procedures where you're going to be taking three bids and it's.

[R17566-216] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a couple of questions on transportation. So  and I'm just going to get through this and then we can talk. How is the decision made to hire three employees formerly known as bus aides? Because last year I thought we had two. And they're now listed as monitors. And so I have a couple of questions. One, who do they report to?  How are they assigned and what do they do when they're not in the bus? And I guess all that drives me  to looking at policy GIC, which is student conduct on school busses. So  in my mind, if  if those aren't required as a 1 to 1,  why are we spending the money on something like that? And when we clearly have a well-defined policy for school bus conduct. So so that's the first part to chew on. And then  so we have eight drivers of the CDL and four that drive vans. And so I wondered is there a chance we can offer them to train those folks to get their CDL at no cost to them? And if so,  I mean, seems to me that would be a nice feather to put in their cap.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We are in the process of training one of those drivers to get her CDL.

[R17566-291] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Board has supported all initiatives really should the tech.
TEXT> I think I'll be quick. I think in my interview with with you, I may have talked about this.  Student enrollment in New Hampshire public schools is down about 23% over the last 20 years. That trend is not reversing. That's a function of birth rate. It's not anything that any of us can do.  It may reverse in the future. It may not. But we've got at least ten years before we even thinking about that. Probably 15.  That sets up an interesting situation where if you if you just looked at the map and you kind of look at where the high schools are.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[R17566-293] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> And you think about how enrollment has declined and the pressures that has put on tax rates and on our ability to employ  staff and  ability to offer programs to kids in virtually all schools.  The only thing that makes sense, this is my opinion. Now, the only thing that makes sense is some kind of consolidation. I'm not going to define what that might mean, but in the process of getting to whatever that means,  families are choosing schools right now. And  what would Claremont have to offer to attract students to this district, if not robust programs here in this center?  To me, it's an absolute obvious feature that should be sort of the centerpiece of how we approach future challenges with enrollment.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R17566-320] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: work with Doctor Broderick to bring forth an amended version. And so one of the questions was, there has been a lot of discussion of wearing hats in, in schools. And so I really like an up and down, up or down vote on that.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. I just asked Doctor Harrington a question.  Do you mind? Thank you sir. Good evening. Thank you sir. So in the past, I've heard you  say that the dress code you choose to enforce and what have you. And we talked about hats. So  as a part of my practice, I would be against hats in a classroom. However,  it's not a hill. I'm going to die on it if you're comfortable with it, so am I. My question, though, is this suppose you had a teacher like myself that ask students to take off hats, even though they were allowed in the rest of the building. Would you support that teacher in their little habitat?
NEXT> Dr. Michael Herrington: Yes, absolutely. And as a quick qualifier, and I'm going to nitpick and I apologize for this. It is not my previous statement that I chose not to enforce the

[R17566-335] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; SRVRTC Committee Chair - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: Was there are two options I guess is what I was saying right.
TEXT> Like.,  I  can't say that I have a better  feel of the pulse of the school district in the student body and what current trends are  then our administrators and our teachers.  So I can't,  I don't I don't want to take away some of that decision making from our administrators of what is appropriate and in our schools in this day and age, compared to when I was in high school  back in the 90s. But,  you know, I put my faith in our administrators to,  to  use the policy. So I think if it does  discuss head coverings, then we probably need to change that, in my opinion. But our administrators and our teachers and our  have brought forward,  you know, what they consider to be reasonable. Maybe some of the language and the wording needs to be tweaked a little bit, but  I  would support  what they brought to us   on.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Thank you madam. So just to clarify, Mike, so last meeting we we I put a motion forward to approve what the administration had asked for. Brian second and we

[R17566-349] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee; Policy Subcommi | 2026-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> So   I'm fine with hats being allowed.  I like the idea of I had teachers the same way.  I also was in high school in the 90s.  If they wanted you to take the hat off, you took the hat off, put it on the desk.  I'm good with that. I think it's respectful, but it also allows kids.  You know what? Sometimes they can't do that hair in the morning. They want to go ahead on.  You know what? Whatever. I'm fine with it. I don't think hoodies should be up.  Covers your ears,  hide your face. That shouldn't be allowed. I have no problem with hoodies being worn, but I don't think the hoodie should be up.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Should I go through.

[R17566-353] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board member (Capital Improvement Chair) - recognized 'Yes, bil | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Because we'll get to that. And I'd just like to address it one at a time. And so what I hear from okay, I got two hands, bill.
TEXT> I like what we're doing. We're discussing this. I'm not comfortable voting until  we hear and we give our opinions  on this issue.   With hoodies,  it hides earbuds highs of face. It hides the eyes.  And I think hats with visors does the same thing.  So kid can tip his head down a little bit, and the teacher can't see whether or not they're engaged. But whatever. The majority rules, that's the way we go.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So I'll throw in my $0.02 where part of me when I looked at this, I thought, I, I think I of respect, I don't think hat should be worn

[R17566-354] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: face. It hides the eyes. And I think hats with visors does the same thing. So kid can tip his head down a little bit, and the teacher can't see whether or not they're engaged. But whatever. The majority rules, that's the way we go.
TEXT> So  I'll throw in my $0.02 where  part of me when I looked at this, I thought,  I,  I think I of respect, I don't think hat should be worn in schools.  I talked to both  the middle school and the high school principal and said, what do you think about this? And  both of them indicated that  to me,  that in today's world, because of  social media, there's a lot of anxiety and concern  about  whatever because of the social media, and that if kids had to had that and they felt more comfortable being in the classroom or  were more self-assured, so be it. I would hope that that would be applicable to freshmen,  much less so as sophomores, juniors, and seniors. I would hope that wouldn't be applicable, because people have to get used to the real world and hats aren't allowed in  in many professions.  Again, I would go back to  the  administration for. Interpreting and applying the policy, and I would look to them to make the decision  whether the hat is worn or not. That's that's number one. And so  so is there a general consensus about hats?  Number one.  Does is there any concern? Is there anybody who has a passionate feel that hats should not be worn in school?  Okay.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Two okay, I guess what I would like to focus on is really what's the purpose of the dress code? And it's not simply to regulate the dress of kids

[R17566-360] Loren Howard | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee Chair) - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So just to give some clarity here. Yes.
TEXT> Just  one quick thing. I don't mean to be totally void of decorum, but I think in terms of hats at least, whatever a kid wants to wear, if he's happy to go to school wearing a cookie monster hat or a beanie, as long as he's actually paying attention, it's not covering his ears. I don't think we should be punitive about that, and I think we won't. I think if there is discretion, there's going to be kids who it's like, oh, that kid's hair is crazy, not me.  Maybe it's going to be because he didn't shower this morning or something.  So I think it's really easy to talk about decorum and respect and so forth. But at the end of the day,  if a kid wants to go to school, I think that's the most important thing.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: If I could. Go about it. Not being professional firefighters were hats, EMTs go to any store. People are wearing hats. Retail. It's. I just don't think it's it.

[R17566-366] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; SRVRTC Committee Chair - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: up because they cover ears. And I for one could agree. I do agree with that. Is there? How do others? Are people in support of hoodies being worn but not up? Could you could people say yes to that? Okay. All right, all right.
TEXT> Again, in speaking to people within our system that there are some  sometimes that  these are  supportive for, for some students. So I'd hate to take that away from.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I do think that.

[R17566-426] Loren Howard | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee Chair) - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: I.
TEXT> I'm going to start with just the Stephens one, because I think that's the one we've been mostly looking at. So I'll make a motion to approve the Stephens High School Student Handbook,  as written with the.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: With the procedures as, as submitted last week. Last meeting.

[R17566-436] Noel (Ward 2 resident; surname not given) | Member of the public - asks to go to the podium during the dress-code  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: I mean yeah that the rest of it can be further discussion. Well did you have something you wanted to say?
TEXT> I would love to go to the podium. Noel  Ward two.  Most of you, I think, know that I am a teacher.  And  I will say that as a teacher, I  could not care less about the dress code because  my concern is whether the students are showing up ready to learn and what they're wearing. And to that end, what I wear as a teacher  doesn't generally impact their learning one way or another. I  have had students in the past who  wore hats because of anxiety, and it was incredibly helpful. But I've also had students who just wore hats to wear them and wore them every single day with no problem. I think when it becomes a distraction, like there were students that I told go put the hat away because they're passing them around, throwing them across the room. And I think the same thing goes for  midriff, for pajamas, for anything like that. If a kid is there and ready to learn, that's what I care about and it is a big ask to then turn around and ask your teachers to police what their students are wearing all day long when they're just trying to engage them in learning.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you.

[R17566-447] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Please proceed.
TEXT> I just had questions about the obtaining credit, which I'm very in support of  the 306 rule about being able to move forward and graduate early. Yes. How do we actually I'm just curious. How do we actually that  how do we facilitate that? How early can a kid graduate.
NEXT> Dr. Michael Herrington: If I would respectfully say talk to Bill. So I know I'm going to tell you. And the reason why I'm going to do that is and I think, you

[R17566-451] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Dr. Michael Herrington: the superintendents last year about a request about that, because I don't believe we do. I went to a very extensive seminar about editor 306, and I will have to check my email and who that was sent to and kind of the needs there.
TEXT> Because  it's my understanding that New Hampshire is very flexible with the way they allow  students to navigate through high school and getting competencies. And we have a number of students that struggle and are in alternative programs. And if we can help those students by creating policies and avenues within.
NEXT> Dr. Michael Herrington: Absolutely. And looking at like work based learning programs, extended learning opportunities, like all of that is something that we've been focusing on in the last year and a half.

[R17566-464] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Dr. Michael Herrington: their grades and email their parents and any teacher whose grade is not passing. So there will be a continued communication at least every two weeks from their advisor, and then added on to whatever teacher they have. So that will be up to date.
TEXT> On page 13. We no longer redesignated students if they do not earn sufficient credits to move on to the next level. What does that mean and why did it change?
NEXT> Dr. Michael Herrington: I believe so that lines been in here for as long as I've been here. I believe that that has been, I want to say like 2015 ish. And again,

[R17566-465] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: On page 13. We no longer redesignated students if they do not earn sufficient credits to move on to the next level. What does that mean and why did it change?
TEXT> I believe so  that lines been in here for as long as I've been here. I believe that that has been,  I want to say like 2015 ish.  And again, I'm doing this off the top of my head. So my apologies. I believe that is in line with the school board policy. And all that means is  and we have this conversation with some students that don't understand it. Most of them do.  If you  don't pass any classes your freshman year,  I will call you a sophomore.  You still need 20 credits to graduate. So then basically all that means is instead of repeating your freshman year over, you're just repeating your  senior year over.  So you'll go,  you know, nine, 10 to 11, 12th, 12th instead of ninth, ninth, 10th, 11th, 12th. But that doesn't really matter because you're taking the same progression of classes if that means anything.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's what my assumption was, but it was good to hear it from you. Thank you. And then on page 15, the honor roll, do we not wait the honor

[R17566-491] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair; SRVRTC Committee Chair - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Dr. Michael Herrington: I would have to check. I signed the affidavit in the winter first. I if it's in there I'm going to say I believe so. But again without it in front of me.
TEXT> Can you just pass? We had 1 or 2 students that participated in alpine skiing.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: It is not in your current athletic offering, alpine skiing.

[R17566-499] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: And that's all. Other than that, I have concerns about.
TEXT> In a in a world where there's however again, people feel about this greater competition where families have a perception of choice among public and non public schools, schools that offer more sports, more activities, more things that kids want to do  could be a Dungeons and Dragons club  or attractive schools, right?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Oh, I'm very supportive of us increasing our extracurricular activities. But if we don't have alpine skiing and we don't have any more track.

[R17566-504] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: That was going to be a question. Are we going to look to offer something like that or mountain biking is a is a sport. Is that something we could look into?
TEXT> I'm sorry. This is just reality. If you look at what happened over the last seven years at prospects,  if you don't want me to try to add sports, you are going to have to fire me.  We're adding sports.  We have to try to add sports. Kids come to school more regularly when they're involved. And again, it's all extracurricular activities. But sports are a great way to connect kids to school communities. Attendance improves, grades improve. If you start checking eligibility more than by the marking period. If you do an eligibility check every week  and you put kids on academic probation so they have time to recover before they're not allowed to practice and play,  grades get better.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Right?

[R17566-517] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: Tell you.
TEXT> Exactly what the students here every single day. And they've heard it several times already. There are no phones allowed at Stevens High School or any other school in the state of New Hampshire due to a state law, if your phone is seen or heard and that includes being seen in your pants pocket, it will be confiscated and you can pick it up at the end of the day. I might have said that a few times.  I will tell you that  I have not. In a sense, this law has been introduced, and I've started saying that over every single announcement, every single day,  in that same singsong tone  that I just see a  like a phone or hint of a phone. No one fights it anymore. They get it over, I walk by, I look, and by the way, it's very easy to pick up in body language if a kid's on their phone. And so I was walking by  Beckham, Menard's class, and a kid kind of looked down real quick  and I went in and said,  what was that? Nothing  really.  What's so interesting in your lap?  Nothing. And I said, just so you know, I was standing out in the hallway for a while and then here it is. Gave it right to me in two seconds, you know.
NEXT> Dr. Michael Herrington: And that was I didn't have to push it at all. And it has not been an issue. We one of our new teachers, oh, she got the first phone

[R17566-518] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Dr. Michael Herrington: said, what was that? Nothing really. What's so interesting in your lap? Nothing. And I said, just so you know, I was standing out in the hallway for a while and then here it is. Gave it right to me in two seconds, you know.
TEXT> And that was I didn't have to push it at all. And it has not been an issue. We one of our new teachers, oh, she got the first phone of the day and just called us and we came, picked it up. We give it to  Taylor and they pick it up on her way out.  It  really has not been an issue  because of the change. We did have the yonder pouches prior to the state law,  and they that was a lease program that was very cost effective. However,  they changed their whole model. It became very  expensive. So I have a whole bunch that I hold on to in case someone becomes a  repeat offender and they have to use it.  But by and large,   if we see a phone, we have it very quickly. And during lunches it was  it was crazy how quickly it changed from people being on their phones to conversation and laughing and and being children. It's very nice. It's very nice. And I did have one  student when we did this goes, wow,  you know, it's really funny. Somebody wants to make fun of you. Now they got to say it to your face and they don't want to do that. And like, bullying has gone down.
NEXT> Unidentified: Dramatically, dramatically.

[R17566-520] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Dramatically, dramatically.
TEXT> I think students are happier.  And I do say  and I tell the students at this because again, they are developing and they this generation for whatever reason. And I do believe it's a lot to do with social media. It has a lot of anxiety and a lot of attachments having that phone to them all the time. So  I will never stop a student from calling home. You just have to come down and ask. I'll give you my office. You can call your mother and have a private conversation. That's fine, but you don't do it in the classroom.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay, so I think he answered your question. And so let's take a vote on the approval of the handbooks. Stephen. High school student handbook. All those in favor say

[R17566-521] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Dr. Michael Herrington: the time. So I will never stop a student from calling home. You just have to come down and ask. I'll give you my office. You can call your mother and have a private conversation. That's fine, but you don't do it in the classroom.
TEXT> Okay, so I think he answered your question.  And so let's take a vote on the approval of the handbooks. Stephen. High school student handbook. All those in favor say aye.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I just.

[R17566-526] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay, so this includes the dress code.
TEXT> Yes.  This is just Stephen's and includes the dress code. All those in favor say aye.  Aye.  Opposed?  Okay. The motion carries 5 to 2.  Let's move on to the Steve  to the Claremont Middle School  student parent handbook. Are there questions? Okay.  Could people  could I? I would entertain a motion to accept this as presented.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I'll make a motion to approve as accepted. And I just want to commend Nicole and her staff. When you look at that handbook, even on a portable device, the

[R17566-535] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: Just some wishful thinking. Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you.  That was my first item, Lauren  I quit. Thanks for leaving me off the CSB listing.   So  it's important to note that,  particularly just speaking for me, when I give comments and feedback, I think it's just my way of honoring the time that folks have put into these documents where I've actually sat down and read them so that their time isn't wasted. And so when I make these, it's in the spirit of just what do I see as an average taxpayer? Okay, so and I'll go through these  Tim and I put the heading they fall under. So under attendance and tardiness.  It says the true an officer will monitor student absences. And  that comes into conflict  with under intervention process to address truancy. Number four where a second paragraph says when the principal identifies a student. So there's just a conflict in there. In the wording, one says that the true and officer is responsible, and then shortly thereafter it says the principal is responsible. So if we could clarify that, the other thing that  under tendance and tardiness, it says parents will be required to meet with the truancy board.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I have no idea what that is, who that is, and says who. I just have no idea what that means. So get some clarity there. And if I'm going

[R17566-584] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: it goes on to say may result. There's no way it should say may result should result. And it should mirror our bullying policy period. It should be no nothing. Next one awarding of letters. I need more clarity other than determined by head coach.
TEXT> After consultation with the activities director.  And again, because the word tradition is mentioned earlier, I would argue and the ad  says something, the fact that it's impossible to put together a  what's required. You'll see it in the in the writing. I would argue the ad most certainly can create a matrix outline in requirements rather than it being open to interpretation. And by the way,  unified athletes should get a letter. And if you're against that, tell me why,  right.  There's no reason we're not talking about the Navy Seal Trident here. Right. So,  under general information, the first point provides and I'm just going to read this. An estimated 300,000 occur each year. And then under football data, he's presents the following 1985 to 1994. And he talks about statistics. So while certainly okay to to reference data, it should be more recent rather than a 30 year old set of data. Right. And I also need to provide a reference where you get the data, the same thing. We'd require every student at Stevens High School to do.   And then the last portion of this talks about final forms and is a link. Well, it's broken for Stevens. So if we're going to use that, that needs to be fixed. And  thank you for indulging me. That's all I have for that particular book.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Brian, you had some comments.

[R17566-612] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: I suffered my pencil. That's good.
TEXT> Under the forward the first Senate says the purpose of Stevens High. There's no mention of CMS. And and again, just like the other document, there's a lot of that within there. The CMS is excluded  under 14 legal duties of a coach.  That's that's you'll find that on page five. It's a very broad statement without any kind of reference. And while I like the premise, I mean, if a child turned this into me 14 legal duties of a teacher or something,  my first reaction is, where's the reference?  Where did you get this from? Right. It just there. These are the legal. And if it's from some federation, then put me a little link there. Something I can check out for myself. Under coaching contracts, the statement reads all coaching contracts are at will contracts at Stevens High School.  Just want to make sure that that's the correct wording.  So and  we've dealt with that in the past  under seven steps to avoid liability.   Item one  I want to know what forbid horror players because that's what it says. Forbid horseplay.   I just calling them like I read them.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Okay. And it's in caps by the way. Next one under eligibility responsibilities. Item two, letter B in parentheses. States must be withing I. I don't know what that means.

[R17566-615] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: again, like other parts only see Stevens is mentioned, not CMS. Maybe use Claremont Athletics. Something of that sort under fundraising. I wonder if the entire section needs to be changed in scrubs because it talks about student activity accounts, fundraising approved by the ad.
TEXT> I thought we moved away from that, so  that came to mind under teams individuals staying overnight.  Item one itinerary approved by Addie. And this. This worries me because the school board approves off campus trips, taking kids just on to Boston, and there's nothing in here that the school board has to approve an overnight trip.  I just it worries me that  under thunder and lightning,  it's talked about earlier in a document. And  so it's a repeat offender here.  Next one under school rules. Item one next to the last sentence, it says the athlete will be required to sit out contest meets upon returning from the trip. And this whole section, if you really read it closely, comes across as district policy. And I found no reference to it in our policies. And I bring that up because  in other sections of the document, when they talk about hazing, the school board is explicitly mentioned. So if we're going to mention it, one, we need to mention it in both and be consistent  under harassment bullying   GIC policy needs to be in there. There's no verbatim. There's no mention of that in there  under awards.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: The first sentence reads each varsity athlete will receive one letter for the first varsity sport in which he or she participates. I said, okay, that's cool. It's different than

[R17566-622] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: No need to pile on. Yeah.
TEXT> I want to bring your attention to something that I plan to report on in greater detail in the future, but because I know about it now, even though I don't know everything about it now,  as we continue to develop corrective actions  against the audits,  one of the things we're going to have to deal with, and I've told the principals and the athletic director, I don't plan to act immediately this year,  in addition to student activity funds, which are fine,  we have a corrective action. We need to issue rules and procedures around student activity funds, but it's okay to have them.  Each principal also has a checking account, a principals account. That's probably going to have to go away, but I don't need to make it go away tomorrow. We can take our time and I just don't want to shock the system.  We'll institute some rules. The principals have been very receptive. I'm not worried about that. In addition to those checking accounts that the principles are signatories on, there is an athletics checking account  that the athletic director,  the principal at Stevens and the assistant principals at Stevens have been signatories on. And that checking account carries a five figure balance.  Five over $20,000 at the beginning of the year  to pay game officials.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: This is not how most schools do this anymore, so I'm going to be changing it. If you hear something about it, you don't have to run. And I do

[R17566-699] Loren Howard | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee Chair) - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: The policy subcommittee. And, Lauren, you've got a lot to report.
TEXT> We're somewhere in the middle here, so I don't think you guys got your policies on time,  but you should have them now.  And so I'm going to start with the three that I think will be super easy for everyone to understand.  And then we might postpone some that I think the public should see before we talk about it. Good.  I'll start with if a which is instructional needs of each individual student. This is the simplest revision you could possibly do. It's a title change.  It was previously instructional instructional needs of students with different talents.  That one I'd be willing to make a motion to move, but I'm going to read these others before I do that. FAA this is also a revision, so we already have this on the books. This was in response to a parent who had requested a pay out of funds,  that they had a surplus in their account of it. There was some sort of confusion about  there was no description in our policy about how long that should take or what a parent should expect when they request that money.
NEXT> Loren Howard: So we basically put language that said it could take up to three weeks. And so if you were a graduating student, if you're a student leaving the district, or

[R17566-700] Loren Howard | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee Chair) - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: pay out of funds, that they had a surplus in their account of it. There was some sort of confusion about there was no description in our policy about how long that should take or what a parent should expect when they request that money.
TEXT> So we basically put language that said it could take up to three weeks. And so if you were a graduating student, if you're a student leaving the district, or you are just a student who is requesting a surplus of your funds, it could take up to three weeks and that language was not there before, so  people would have no idea when to expect it. And some, you know, would have to wait till the end of the year.  And then let's see. JLC  is about concussions and head injuries,  and it's in response to new RSA requirements. So there was some simple  if you look at the top of the document, there's NHS  notes that describe what that RSA is and what was changed. And so those are the three that I think tonight I would be comfortable making a motion to approve because the revisions.  But I won't go on any further until we sort of discuss these three.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So you're making the motion to approve for first read list again please.

[R17566-812] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Tim Broadrick: Provided these public documents as part of your packet and ask to have a nonpublic conversation about them.
TEXT> And  also we have the Claremont Policy  AB, which is the student tuition policy.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Another public document that relates to the previous public documents about which I would like to have a conversation.

[R17566-823] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Are there any questions from the board members regarding that? I will send that. I will send that out to all the board members tomorrow.
TEXT> I'd like to make a motion to move into nonpublic per 91 a colon a  colon, three Roman numeral two  under C and K, and that is mandatory to discuss. The public would like to affect  the reputation of any personality by a member of the board,   and k is consideration by a board of entering into a student for pupil contract. If which, if discussed in public, would likely benefit the party of parties who is interested, whose interests are adverse to those of the general public for the school district.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Second.

[R17575-5] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: And again under academic probation, the last sentence in the first paragraph says when grades are reviewed quarterly, again, there's no mention of CMS does not do cause under practice and game attendance, it makes reference to choose to participate in athletics at Stevens High.
TEXT> And so we need to include CMS in there and  make sure that there are no further exclusions to that. Next one was under the athletic department specific objectives. Number three says to encourage a state required program for professional preparation of coaches sponsors. What does that mean? I have no idea what that means. There's no legal just I don't know what it is or what it what it means. And that doesn't mean I'm all knowing. I just I don't know. Under participation selection. The first paragraph says certain teams at certain levels have limitations. So I'm going to just read you what I wrote verbatim. And again, I've written a dead horse. I sit at my desk or my chair and my kids will tell you, and I just read this stuff. So here's what I wrote. I'd like some clarity. It's so ambiguous. It'd be like saying some budget lines maybe make more money than stated. And then what's worrying to me is at the end of that sentence, it says, use this tradition to play a part in selection. When you say tradition, use plays a part in the selection of athletes.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: That's to me that's a red flag, because that means if your name is correct, you're making the team. So even if that is the case, it wouldn't be smart

[R17575-17] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: it goes on to say may result. There's no way it should say may result should result. And it should mirror our bullying policy period. There should be no nothing. Next one awarding of letters. I need more clarity other than determined by head coach.
TEXT> After consultation with the activities director. And again, because the word tradition is mentioned earlier, I would argue and the adds says something. The fact that it's impossible to put together a what's required. You'll see it in the in the writing. I would argue the add most certainly can create a matrix outlining requirements rather than it being open to interpretation. And by the way, unified athletes should get a letter. And if you're against that, tell me why. Right. That there's no reason we're not talking about the Navy Seal Trident here, right? So, under general information, the first point provides and I'm just going to read this. An estimated 300,000 occur each year. And then under football data, presents the following 1985 to 1994. And he talks about statistics. So while certainly okay to to reference data it should be more recent rather than 30 year old set of data. Right. And I also need to provide a reference where you get the data, the same thing. We'd require every student at Stevens High School to do.  And then the last portion of this talks about final forms and is a link. Well, it's broken for Stevens. So if we're going to use that, that needs to be fixed. And and thank you for indulging me. That's all I have for that particular book.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Brian, you had some comments?

[R17575-49] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: I suffered my pencil.
TEXT> That's good. Under the forward the first sentence says the purpose of Stevens High. There's no mention of CMS. And and again, just like the other document, there's a lot of that within there. The CMS is excluded.  Under 14 legal duties of a coach. That's that's you'll find that on page five. It's a very broad statement without any kind of reference. And while I like the premise, I mean, if a child turned this into me. 14 legal duties of a teacher or something, my first reaction is, where's the reference? Where did you get this from? Right. It just there. These are the legal. And if it's from some federation, then put me a little link there. Something I can check out for myself. Under coaching contracts,  the statement reads all coaching contracts are at will contracts at Stevens High School. I just want to make sure that that's the correct wording. So and it we've dealt with that in the past  under seven steps to avoid liability.  Item one I want to know forbid horror players because that's what it says. Forbid horseplay.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I just calling them like I read them. Okay. And it's in caps, by the way. Next one under eligibility responsibilities. Item two, letter B in parentheses. States must be.

[R17575-51] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: So you can imagine my chagrin. Under transportation item one states players should be in a school dress code for athletes for boys dress pants, no denim jeans, shirt and tie, or a turtleneck along with a suit, coat or sweater is acceptable for girls.
TEXT> Skirts, dresses or dress slacks no denim jeans along with a blast or sweater are acceptable. Why I like to I like this. My question is to prove this, and it's interesting that this has been a tradition that no one blinks an eye on yet. Think of all the time we've invested just talking about school dress code and sitting within our. One of our documents is a is a dress code. So I just take that for what you what you want.  It just it didn't make sense to me that we have that. I get the idea, I support it, but under transportation to a non playing event, the last Senate says many times this transportation cost must come from student activity funds. So to me that was a red flag that that needs to go away under. And media item one the last sentence needs a couple of items omitted. It still has the eagle times and E ticker news.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Yeah.

[R17575-59] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - reports on audit corrective actions and the at | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: Yeah.
TEXT> I want to bring your attention to something that I plan to report on in greater detail in the future, but because I know about it now, even though I don't know everything about it now,  as we continue to develop corrective actions, against the audits,  one of the things we're going to have to deal with, and I've told the principals in the athletic director, I don't plan to act immediately this year, in addition to student activity funds, which are fine, we have a corrective action. We need to issue rules and procedures around student activity funds, but it's okay to have them. Each principal also has a checking account, a principals account. That's probably going to have to go away, but I don't need to make it go away tomorrow. We can take our time and I just don't want to shock the system. We'll institute some rules. The principals have been very receptive. I'm not worried about that. In addition to those checking accounts that the principles are signatories on, there is an athletics checking account that the athletic director, the principal at Stevens and the assistant principals at Stevens have been signatories on. And that checking account carries a five figure balance. Five over $20,000 at the beginning of the year to pay game officials.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: This is not how most schools do this anymore, so I'm going to be changing it. If you hear something about it, you don't have to run. And do you

[R17594-6] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Unidentified: Round here.
TEXT> Here, here. Thank you. Okay,  our first item of business tonight is, is recognition of some students  we would like to welcome, Byron DeCamp and Faith Norton, who? And they happen to be seniors at Stevens High School. And they're going to be the,  student reps to the Claremont School Board this year. And,  we welcome you both. Thank you for coming. Thank you for volunteering to do this.  And they were doctor Harrington told me to say that. So, you know, and so we know that this is your first meeting. We just wanted you to come and see us and see faces. We don't expect you to say anything tonight, but we look forward to. But I'll let you speak if you want to in a minute. But we are going to  have  a report from these folks once a month. They're going to be joining us on a monthly basis.  I've also allowed them to sit at where they are  so that they can escape this meeting if they need to, because seniors have a lot to do. And so so Byron and Faith tell us, would you like to say anything tonight?
NEXT> Byron DeCamp: Yeah. So I'm Byron Camp. I play football and lacrosse for Stevens High School. I'm a team captain on both of those teams. Oh, good for you. I'm the senior

[R17594-13] Faith Norton | Student representative to the School Board, Stevens High School senior | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh, congratulations.
TEXT> Yeah. Hoping to get another state championship this year. And I'm also officer of student council.  Salt.  Key club.  Other clubs like that. And then. Yeah, I also do track and softball too. In the spring.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Good.

[R17594-55] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 (onset or tail | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, I think we're going to move on to the curriculum instruction and assessment report from Carrie Kennedy.
TEXT> Okay. Good evening everyone. You've had some great busy days. Just a quick thing. We had a great open house last night at Maple Avenue School. We thank everybody who attended.  They did a great job welcoming. Very high attendance. I think also part of it was because it's been a shift. So we have the realignment. And so a lot of families came to see, but I think they had a great, plan and lots of popcorn everybody. So that was nice. So we appreciate that kindergarten is back in session. So we welcome the kindergartners back last week. They're getting adjusted. So again kindergarten through grade two is at Disney Art school. Maple Avenue is grade 3 to 5.  And then the middle school is 6 to 8. And then the high school is 9 to 12. So we'll talk a little bit more about that soon. Two  we started with our doubles assessment. So that's the dynamic indicator of basic early literacy skills. And so we've been able to get that going at both Disney and Maple Avenue elementary schools.  And so all students will be assessed just a baseline of how they're doing what's going on. And we compare that from  beginning of the year middle of the year and the year. So our assessment schedule is a work in progress. So we've got that started.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And then the great thing is I get to report on something fabulous tonight. So, we've had a lot of work to do on grants. We've had some grants that

[R17594-127] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Michelle Harrington.  Principal at the tech center.  So we found out that Newport wasn't running LNA just by coincidence because we were running a report on contact information from parents and stuff. So if we cancel school, we know who to call because they're Newport students going to Claremont. And then they said, oh, hey, by the way, we're not running the LNA program. We found out on Wednesday around noon. And then instantly I said, let's jump on this. Let's get on it because we want to expand our programs. So I instantly emailed Mr. Broderick and said, hey, can we can and I have permission to email the state to see what we need to do to kind of get on this. He said yes. I instantly emailed the state. I have a great relationship with Jeff Beard, who's been been fantastic this whole time, being new in this role. You know, my first year, I leaned on him all the time to figure out what to do and how to do it the right way, not just make up my own things and hope I'm doing it right.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So then, Jeff Beard said we could do it because we're already in that career cluster. If we were going to go in a different career cluster, then that would

[R17594-128] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: time, being new in this role. You know, my first year, I leaned on him all the time to figure out what to do and how to do it the right way, not just make up my own things and hope I'm doing it right.
TEXT> So then,  Jeff Beard said we could do it because we're already in that career cluster. If we were going to go in a different career cluster, then that would be a whole year long process to try to get something going. But because we're already in the health science cluster, he said, you are, you are good to go. There's plenty of jobs to be able to do that in the healthcare field.  And especially when Newport students weren't able to do LNA as well, we thought this was a great opportunity for both sending schools and anybody in the in anybody in the area that wanted to do LNA. Now we have a fantastic teacher that just came on. And if you know, being a new teacher, you're you're kind of overwhelmed with everything. And I said, hey, do you want to do this? She said, absolutely, let's jump on this. Was excited to do Elena. And,  so we're trying to build the plane as we fly it right now.  We still need all the equipment. The good thing is, is the LNA program is only a 16 week program.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: It's pretty intense, but we can still fit in medical assisting as well. So what we're doing right now, because we didn't want to disrupt everybody schedule, we have them

[R17594-129] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: said, absolutely, let's jump on this. Was excited to do Elena. And, so we're trying to build the plane as we fly it right now. We still need all the equipment. The good thing is, is the LNA program is only a 16 week program.
TEXT> It's pretty intense, but we can still fit in medical assisting as well. So what we're doing right now, because we didn't want to disrupt everybody schedule, we have them being able to take it in level one and in level two. So students might get stuff in medical assisting that they might not have learned in level one. But if they're interested, then they can. We can teach that during advisory or after school and all that stuff.  So that's the big thing with LNA. We still need a lot of equipment. So if you're hearing this and you want to help donate, we have a giant list of things.  So help us out. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[R17594-131] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> I think this is terrific. And and it's because you were so  astute and aware of the and and acted immediately.  And and thanks to the Department of Education for their cooperation and quick response. Yep.  Also,  will the students from Newport becoming here?
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Yes. So we have one student right now coming. They're actually taking two programs. They thought they wanted to take the program, and then they wanted to see if there

[R17594-147] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Don Lavalette: I'll wait to you.
TEXT> Okay.  So the report, I just feel like I wanted to showcase kind of what we're doing at the tech center.  We. Nicole and I, the new principal at the middle school, work really well together. Over the summer time, we said, hey, we really want to bring middle school students over here.  It's done. It's been done in the past, and it wasn't done well. So even in my interview, I really wanted to bring middle school kids in here. And you saw everybody at the table go. I don't want to do that again because it didn't work.  This time we made sure that it's going to work in a in the right way and put things in place.  Machine tool teacher. Once again, he was open and flexible. Usually a CTE. CTE teacher has a level one, a level two, and an intro class. During the interview, we said you have to be the salesperson of your of your program just because it is the one that's had the least amount of students for so long.  Last year we had zero students in the program, and then with the work with Nicole and I, and Beth and,  drinker she's we had to do so a bunch of scheduling things.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And she was really like, let's mess up the schedule to make this work. So with that, it was awesome. And so with machine tool, instead of having zero students

[R17594-148] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: the one that's had the least amount of students for so long. Last year we had zero students in the program, and then with the work with Nicole and I, and Beth and, drinker she's we had to do so a bunch of scheduling things.
TEXT> And she was really like, let's mess up the schedule to make this work.  So with that, it was awesome. And so with machine tool, instead of having zero students in the class,  we have 174 students coming through  for 22 days at a time, and then they switch and then they come in and instead of just doing machine tool where they might go, I don't know what this is. We really kind of scaled it back and we said, let's do some 3D printing to get them excited about it, because it's the same coding system that the CNC machines work. It's just done in a safer, controlled environment to get them excited. And then now they're into the shop learning all of that stuff instead of just being, I don't want to be here. I don't like this.  So they they made these little boats multi-colored, had a load the machines,  and now they're working on projects that they want to do. So that's machine tool.  Every single program we've we've worked really hard to build enrollment, but I just don't want numbers at the tech center. I want the right students in the right programs.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Because if you don't, you have a great intro class. Nobody's taking the level one class. If you just fill the class with kids that don't want to be there.

[R17594-150] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: come in and just get a little taste of every single program that we have here so that they can when they pick their classes for high school, they know what plumbing actually is, not just what they think plumbing is, because it's completely different.
TEXT> If you ask a seventh grader what plumbing is, it's not what they actually do.  So so if you if you add the students that we're going to start for quarter two, three and four, that's another 190 students coming to the tech center. So with everything, it's 689 students coming through the tech center. And when I first started, there was 284 students coming in. And that is 142.6% increase in enrollment in, I say three years, but really two, because this is the third year.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So I think that's fantastic. In your report, it shows 338 students in the high school CTE enrollment. The public needs to recognize that's that's 338 in year one in

[R17594-151] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: tech center. So with everything, it's 689 students coming through the tech center. And when I first started, there was 284 students coming in. And that is 142.6% increase in enrollment in, I say three years, but really two, because this is the third year.
TEXT> So I think that's fantastic. In your report, it shows 338 students in the high school CTE enrollment. The public needs to recognize that's that's 338 in year one in year two and intro.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Yep. An intro.

[R17594-153] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: Yep. An intro.
TEXT> And middle school participation. You've got, over the course of the year, anticipated about 350 students who will be introduced to CTE programs during the year.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Yes. And also, when I first started, the first year, we just were going with Sunup in Newport because that's who was in our agreement, and that I wanted to

[R17594-154] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: And middle school participation. You've got, over the course of the year, anticipated about 350 students who will be introduced to CTE programs during the year.
TEXT> Yes. And also, when I first started, the first year, we just were going with Sunup in Newport because that's who was in our agreement, and that I wanted to kind of throw the net net out a little bit more. So we had a Kearsarge student come and then now this year we have a Fall Mountain student coming. So my big thing is, is the more we expand, the more students that we can bring in. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Questions from the board on this. I'm really delighted. Delighted with this.

[R17594-170] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Terrific. Thank you. Thank you. And just the final piece of that is the $2,000, donation. And we don't have to act on that, but we do want to recognize that. And could you just talk a little bit about that, please?
TEXT> Yeah. So his name is Melvin, and he's been. I forget his last name right now. Sorry. Oh. Thank you. Yes.  And so he  was a big supporter last year of the tech center when we really kind of leaned on donations. And then he, called me up and said, hey, by the way, I put $2,000 in Lovell's and an account for you to be able to go to it, to be able to use it for whatever we want with any students. I'd like to use it for the exploratory program that's starting with quarter two.  Just because the money for Perkins and stuff is already allocated in a different way. But, this was fantastic, but it was nice that he did it. But I also was like, I got to make sure we get this approved before we before we use it.
NEXT> Unidentified: So good.

[R17594-187] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's and finance stat | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: The board. Never took any action. Okay. Anything else? Okay. So I think we're moving on to the next item is your kindergarten and preschool.
TEXT> So I this is how I, I like to handle complex issues by just introducing them and giving you time to think and do reading and look at research and and talk to stakeholders.  I will I will work with Principal Lewis in particular to bring this back to you over the course of the year. But right now we have over 100 students in five kindergarten classrooms. That is not a class size that we want at at that grade level at that age.  We are also seeing a much higher level of need among those students than teachers are accustomed to seeing, even in kindergarten classrooms. The school board has options in how it's going to offer kindergarten. Kindergarten programs don't have to be full day programs now. I'm not suggesting that because I think it would be a good idea to offer less than a full day program, because we also have to think about results. So if we're seeing higher needs students in greater numbers and we reduce the program, we might anticipate that's actually going to make things worse as kids get older. So it's a complex issue, but it's important to start talking and thinking about it before we develop an operating budget for fiscal 28, because how kindergarten is going to be or will be directly impacted by what's in that budget proposal.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I wanted to start a conversation tonight, give you some basic facts. Get everybody thinking about it a little bit and we will come back with more. Okay.

[R17594-189] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Tim Broadrick: So I wanted to start a conversation tonight, give you some basic facts. Get everybody thinking about it a little bit and we will come back with more. Okay.
TEXT> I think it's concerning the level of, competency for basic needs that are at that level  of these some of these hundred students that we have. It's a it's a much more difficult situation than many of us would expect it to be. Okay.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So my typical way of doing things like this with a school board would be maybe bring you some research on early childhood education and just some things to think

[R17594-259] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's and finance stat | 2026-09-16
PREV> Don Lavalette: Thank you, I appreciate it.
TEXT> I can give you part of it. I could have given you part of it that night. If there is an aide on a bus. The presence of that aid is prescribed in a student's IEP. There should not be. And I don't believe there is an aide on a bus for general conduct purposes. I think the aide would be only the ones I'm aware of are only on specialized transportation. For I need student.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: That's helpful.

[R17594-307] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's and finance stat | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: proposal from a citizen, to change the mascot at the middle school from Eagles to Cardinals. And there was some justification in the proposal. Subsequently, we've taken a look at that. And, Doctor Broderick, do you have some recommendations or thoughts on so on this?
TEXT> The gentleman who sent the original email is Mr. Gates, the coach of the middle school football team. There's a letter from him,  to you and your packet tonight, also available online, I think, because he wasn't able to make it to speak during public comment.  You know, in in his letter, he suggests what I would suggest to a board considering something like this, which is ask stakeholders. So I think it would be it would be better if she weren't actually sitting in the room right now. But I think it would be appropriate to ask the principal,  to conduct surveys of, of students and parents and things like that, if, if only because it will create awareness that might bring people to participate in a public conversation with the board.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And it might identify some cost issues that might be involved or some.

[R17594-312] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair - the draft minutes attribute to him the masco | 2026-09-16
PREV> Don Lavalette: To be clear, and I'm not sure if that's what the board wants, but, this person was suggesting.
TEXT> To make this change all the way down through the elementary schools,  to make them cardinals as well, so that all that affects more than just the real school. I'm sure there's some sentimental piece to this, but I think we need to reach out to the the schools and the public and maybe even, I would say include the students.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Yeah, yeah.

[R17594-323] Loren Howard | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee Chair) - the chair asks 'Laur | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: second read. And then we have three policies that our second read and if approved for adoption. J f JKAAA and GBGA. And. Let's see JKAA is. Lauren, can you just are there any. It's it was a minor changes I believe you said. Yeah.
TEXT> We since the last meeting, I think the only things that are of. No. Brian, there was some small grammar things that Brian helped with. So under a of j f, for example, instead of,  pupils who have reached the age of six, it will just say between the ages of six. Hopefully that makes sense in the context of reading it more so than out loud. And then let's see, there's a few letters here, Brian, if you have ones that you were. They were pretty basic.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Yeah, a lot of them were basic. I, I did have a question about some of the language down in down in five.

[R17594-327] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - recognized 'Don.' (022, 31 | 2026-09-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: restrict the freedom of movement of the torso, head, arms, or legs of any child. So it's saying you can protect yourself or another kid, as long as you don't restrict the move of the kid's arm that's doing it, it doesn't make sense, right?
TEXT> Well, essentially what practical terms? That you can't put a kid in a headlock, that.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: You.

[R17594-331] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Tim Broadrick: But you're supposed to use only the amount of force necessary to do it, not more.
TEXT> So if a kid is if the kid is actively hitting another kid, you should be able to grab the arm and stop. But it also reads here that you can't do that.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Yeah, you're trading space for time is essentially what you need to do.

[R17594-337] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: So you're looking for clarity which I think is important. Yeah. Yeah I agree.
TEXT> With that. I don't if somebody grabs it, grabs a kid's arm and then gets in trouble for it, while the policy says you're not supposed to stop their arm from swinging.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So, Lauren, what were the changes from this was a policy from 2015 and where you were updating it. Were any of those issues addressed in the update?

[R17594-404] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's and finance stat | 2026-09-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: a lot of athletes that are doing great things. Some recognition to that, to their hard work. It used to be pretty ongoing and as you said, robust. I'm just wondering what's going on. Why? Why aren't we supporting these kids like we used to?
TEXT> I've had personally strong opinions about this kind of thing for a very long time. I wrote an electronic communication and social media guide for a school district ten years ago or more. I haven't gotten to it yet. Full bore. But I have actually started to address exactly what you're talking about, Mr. Rap. Again, in the same meeting  earlier this week with with our high school principal and athletic director. I shared some opinions about what I see.  I, I believe it's important that district communication comes from the district. So if we have an account  on social media of any kind representing itself as the Claremont School District or a or a Stevens High School athletic program or something like that, that account is controlled by a district employee. And we have we possess the password. We have some authority  over keeping student personal data private and things like that. What I think I see right now and what I shared is sort of the opposite, where the district itself is doing little,  and individuals who are not necessarily authorized to represent the district are doing more. And I did task the principal and athletic director with taking a look at that. For me.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: The the account that I'm referring to, I believe.

[R17594-408] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's and finance stat | 2026-09-16
PREV> Brian Rapp: Our athletic director controls that one. There are other people posting on behalf of themselves. They take photos at games and that's great and we like that. But again, the district page seems dead.
TEXT> Well, I think I, I your point  about equity, you use the word, but that's the word I took from this as well. Taken. Mr. Lovell talked earlier about, you know, do we do we provide the same opportunities in unified sports as we do in our other athletic programs? And do we promote those and talk about those the same way we do  our other programs? You know, I've had an interest this summer and I think we're there now. But over the summer, I had an interest in making sure that we we have a system called  swap that coaches can use to create video recordings of games and then break them down to help kids analyze what's going on and what they can learn from it. And I wanted to make sure that that system was in place for all of our field sports boys teams, girls teams, football teams, soccer teams, field hockey team. And because my understanding had been that, that hasn't always been the case here. And if we're if the district is going to invest in those kinds of tools, we have an ethical and moral and actually a legal obligation as well. Although I think ethical and moral come first to to provide those resources to kids equitably  without regard for gender or what particular sport we might like better than the others or anything like that. People shouldn't be able to tell if any of us happen to have preferences.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just one thing. And I should have asked this. I'm sorry, Lauren, during the policy portion, I just I'm curious about. I know the policy committees for the past three

[R17594-410] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: place that dictate the what and the, and the when information gets to the board from the administration and things like, board behaviors and activities, like, I know the, the, the filling of the board vacancy, that appointment process was essentially nonexistent in the policy.
TEXT> And then the board kind of created a, a procedure, and the procedure didn't include contingencies. And that caused, I think, a lot of distrust for the community and for the board itself. So out of criticism, but just wondering where we are in that priority pack. We have a lot of student stuff too, that hasn't been like updated since 2005, like suffrage to kids, I know.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Next meeting you could give us an update.

[R17594-439] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - recognized 'Don.' (022, 31 | 2026-09-16
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: It's at CMS on Monday the 28th at 530. So we hope folks can join. And that's a family engagement night.
TEXT> And you're probably going to say this, but, both of his kids graduated from Stephens.
NEXT> Unidentified: Excellent. Thank you.

[R7313-0] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> 
TEXT> A lot of the following. If you turn to page eight, the current program of studies  spends about four pages talking about different tracks for students career college tracks. And we've been able to condense that into these two, four, six, seven boxes. So a student can very easily we tried to make this much more user friendly, student friendly, parent friendly in its setup, in the way it looks. And so you can easily see if I'm looking at a highly competitive college versus a four year nursing or health field for your business program. Most four year colleges engineering and science, arts college, or a two year community college. I can work with my guidance counselor, and I know right from day one when I step into Stephen's high school, what I need to do as far as the choice of classes that I take. The other thing that this this represents is a transition to the potential new schedule, which would be the A, B, and that the majority of the courses that are in here would be year long courses that would be held every other day, which addresses the gap that we have articulated in our math and science and English courses that currently exist.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: With the 4x4 block schedule. We've inserted information about our library media center and exactly what happens there and what is offered there. And we've added a lot about our

[R7313-1] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: the A, B, and that the majority of the courses that are in here would be year long courses that would be held every other day, which addresses the gap that we have articulated in our math and science and English courses that currently exist.
TEXT> With the 4x4 block schedule. We've inserted  information about our library media center and exactly what happens there and what is offered there. And we've added a lot about our alternative learning opportunities so that students know that they can take ellos extended learning opportunities for credit online courses v lax. We have the whole dual enrollment MoU with Catch the Wave and River Valley Community College in there. So students know that they have an option  if they they plan it correctly, that they can potentially come out of Stevens with  up to two years of college under their belt. We talk about our ESL,  our Owls program because that currently has not had any print anywhere.  To talk about that opportunity for students and athletic participation, it talks about the ways in which students who participate in sports can receive a quarter credit for PE. The next  big thing I'd just like to turn your attention to is English on page 13, and you'll see this represents the change in how we're offering English classes to require that students take a year of English four years in a row, not electives any more in the 11th or 12th grades. And that the there will be sections for general CP honors and AP in the 11th grade and that they're themed.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So college prep is nine English. All students will have a college preparatory thematic umbrella. When they go into 10th grade. It will be international literature, 11th grade is American

[R7313-2] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: to require that students take a year of English four years in a row, not electives any more in the 11th or 12th grades. And that the there will be sections for general CP honors and AP in the 11th grade and that they're themed.
TEXT> So college prep is nine English. All students will have a college preparatory thematic umbrella. When they go into 10th grade. It will be international literature, 11th grade is American literature and 12th grade is British literature. There's still plenty of room for students to take many of our elective English credits on top of those four years, and  those are on the following pages, and you'll see that same theme run through all the four cores  mathematics, which is on page 17. It starts. But what you'll see is the absence  throughout here of our structured language and structured math, our remedial courses that currently exist, as well as our lit lab. And as I explained to the board before, the idea being that lower level skills students are all in general level classes and the support that they will get will be during our flex time, 42 minutes every day. That's where their math skills, English skills will be supported. We do have a math one and an English one, and that's by case manager recommendation only. So again, a very finite number of students. We've taken pre-algebra out of the course of studies and we've taken earth science out. Those are considered middle school classes. And so we've taken them out of our course of studies. I'd also like to point out we have three new classes in here that have gone through the Curriculum Council. We have  in. Science on page.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: 21. We're happy to offer a forensic science course and very excited about that. We feel that that'll be something that'll have a high sign up rate from our students,

[R7313-15] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: And what's going to be the the third science class that's going to be required.
TEXT> Physical science lab bio. And I'm, I have to talk with Erica because there was a switch with how we were offering.  And let me just go right to that section. So we've added the. The life science before, all we had was the running start life science. And so students who want or anatomy.  So students who wanted to just take a regular anatomy course this was the high rigor college level. So we've added those general classes in there for chemistry as well as for life science and for,  anatomy. So it can be any one of those. But that's why what what you're seeing in there was the absolute minimum. But you're absolutely right. We have to add that third science for, for and I believe it's anatomy.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: Says two electives. So for when you go down to your science for just a diploma, you have physical science lab biology and one elective. That's three. Right. So is

[R7313-31] John | Claremont School Board member (first name 'John' per chair [52], [566] | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: John or Brian which
TEXT> We implemented that probably a year ago. Yeah. And the reason being is having two seniors and their friends graduate high school. You are right. A lot of children procrastinate. So it was felt that it's one hour a month for four straight years. It's a pretty simple mathematical equation, and it's easy for the guidance department we felt to handle instead of getting all these triplicate forms sent to them. Three days before graduation and they're making stuff up or trying to remember stuff from four years ago, which was the purpose.  I don't know if that makes it any easier. I think the guidance department needs to  have regularly scheduled meetings with students, which I don't know if it really happens or not on a regular basis and manage this. I also feel that we should stop counting at 48 hours.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Oh, for.

[R7313-34] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> John: could volunteer six hours a day after they get out of school. Thank you. We need to stop counting at 48 hours because it costs us money to count. And it costs us money to print papers. Personally, that's my my my feeling on that?
TEXT> Absolutely. I couldn't agree more. Community service is is something that as part of the culture of Stevens, we're growing and we're talking it about it every day. We're making it a part of the DNA of the school.  It was a logistical nightmare.  Seeing how many freshmen were redesignated freshmen because they hadn't fulfilled their community service requirement. And my feeling was that as a school, we needed to get all our ducks in a row first, as far as managing how we were going to help students to find ways to get their community service provide. And so we're working this year on building that portfolio of community service opportunities for students around town.  For some, it's easy. They do it. It's it's part of, you know, it comes from the home and it's it's what they do anyway. For others, it's a struggle. And we were just finding it extremely difficult with the number of freshmen, especially, who hadn't met their 12 credit requirement. And I felt we needed to do a better job on our end in helping those students, rather than being punitive about not giving them their their what they had earned in credit to promote into the next level and instead with guidance, absolutely with teachers and with providing more opportunities for kids in and outside of the school to get those hours.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Why don't we make it 24 sophomore year?

[R7313-40] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Way before. But I agree. I think it needs to be. They need to be accountable at that every single year. Yes. Because like you say, it's an hour a month. So like what's the big deal?
TEXT> And you're right. And I would like to take a look at other potential incentives for students.  Ideally the incentive comes from within because it's about doing what is right for your community. But but withholding their promotion into the next grade on the  on on the on the other side, like I said, was a logistical nightmare for the school. So I'm happy to work with the board and look for other ideas around how we can, absolutely get students to do at least their 12 hours per year more. Absolutely double. That should be commonplace  and get the students to to want to do it and find ways to do it. And even as teams to do it, not necessarily as, you know, kind of the Lone Ranger out there on their own somewhere. But I want to look at all those different options in order to to boost that. At Stevens. It's very important to, to who we are.
NEXT> John: Your point or other questions on this topic. Is a common that high schools offer for diplomas.

[R7313-42] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> John: Your point or other questions on this topic. Is a common that high schools offer for diplomas.
TEXT> More and more. Yes. Yeah. Very common. For three, the transition diploma is becoming more and more common. Given some of those scenarios that I mentioned to you before,  you know, more and more students going all the way through sophomore year being homeschooled and then coming in to a public school scenario, students leaving the district for one to to three years in and out of district placement and then coming back and sewing, having that fourth opportunity to give administration a variety of options for that, that special student, under those special circumstances that has shown that they have the curriculum, they've met the competencies, they've they've done the work they don't fit into into the other categories to give them that option, to get a diploma from Stevens.
NEXT> John: And just as a follow up in other school districts, if we didn't have block scheduling and we had period scheduling and we actually moved, lowered our, credit requirements, but

[R7313-47] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: Yeah. Please do.
TEXT> Having students leave with 27 credits, I think is a feather in this district's cap to be able to offer the wide variety of courses that are in this program of studies sets Stevens apart from a lot of other high schools. A student whose interest love, passion is art, theater, music, science. They will have the opportunity over four years to figure out whether that's for them, because they have so many opportunities to take these classes. And even if it's not something that they go on and make a career of, it might spark just a lifelong hobby or a lifelong love. And so I think when we think about how we're educating the high school students in this district, as an educator, that's really, really important to me to be able to give as many options as we can and are willing to. Because if there's one kid who takes a theater class and then goes off to Plymouth State or Dartmouth or whatever it is and, and spends the next four years  in the theater and then finds gainful employment in that it will have been worth it if one child gets that spark in that interest because of a class that they took at Stevens.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So, you know, we could reduce it. Obviously, that's that's the board's choice. I think it would be ill advised. This this is this is a solid educational experience for

[R7313-55] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-01-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: that along the way, which I think is the most critical piece because of that. That was one of the areas that was that, that the surveys really indicated was missed the first time around is that communication, feedback from families and teachers and others.
TEXT> Thank you. That was more than I was hoping for. You know, I'm not I'm not against using letter grades or descriptor grades or whatever it is. You know, I've been in schools that give you letter grades, and I know Dartmouth has been on a on a sat, sat plus H grading system for the last 40 years. So it can be done it just to explain it and that there's clarity. I mean, what is more concerning is that there are 50 inquiries coming into our guidance counselors on what do your transcripts mean? Because I don't think we have that many kids who are applying to that many schools. When you think of the size of our class. So that's actually a big number and potentially a big percentage that we just have to we just have to get at because right now it seems like we're a little bit everything.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And and we didn't work in a vacuum. What we looked at was was schools that are competency based systems and what are they doing. And we tried to find

[R7313-69] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-01-21
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Yeah.
TEXT> But I've had question of students who take honors classes. How well does that prepare them for college or for going on AP? There was never a question that the rigor and the curriculum was just what you needed. But the but the honors class is not so much. And I know that honors is our our definition. It's not there's no external sort of requirement for it. You know, can we as we're continuing to move ourselves more towards AP if that's what's if that's what's necessary, or is there something that can help us sort of draw a distinction between regular class honors and now the AP?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Yeah. And, Vessey is planning on going to Saint John's for the AP training. So we'll have an AP chemistry class. So we're working towards that. Absolutely.

[R7313-93] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-01-21
PREV> Brian Rapp: Yes, yes.
TEXT> Pierce. Looking for applications for a page?  For students. And this would be high school students to be a page for six weeks on the Senate floor in New Hampshire. There are opportunities like that that are going on. I'm sure within the House there are other ones this, you know, go down to washing and do it down there, these opportunities. You know, we talk civics. There's the opportunity in civics. We have the same thing, you know, how do we begin to incorporate. And here that it's not just this there's more there's there's so many other pieces. I think it goes back to our guidance, I think goes back to our advisors, that it's not just stepping through what Claremont has been for the last 15 years. There's now there's these other options. We've got to begin to open that one up again, because these opportunities are out there and other schools are getting them. And, you know, if two of your two of the pages that are down in Concord come from Claremont, people begin to hear that. And and how do we begin to incorporate some of those programs?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We have Rachel's Challenge coming in April 15th, and if you're not familiar with that, I recommend you go to the website. But we haven't had assemblies at Stevens in

[R7313-94] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: are out there and other schools are getting them. And, you know, if two of your two of the pages that are down in Concord come from Claremont, people begin to hear that. And and how do we begin to incorporate some of those programs?
TEXT> We have Rachel's Challenge coming in April 15th, and if you're not familiar with that, I recommend you go to the website. But  we haven't had assemblies at Stevens in recent history, and now that we're on the verge of having our auditorium ready and usable,  the plan is that we're going to be bringing many of my. My hope would be we'd have at least one a  month. But Rachel's challenge Rachel Joy Scott was the first  student killed in Columbine, and it's her story. But these assemblies, which I've  had the honor of being involved in three now, one at the high school level, two at the middle school level, talk about school safety and about bullying, and about changing the culture of a school  and being an agent of change, positive change within a building. And so  we have them coming in at a cut rate price April 15th. Very, very powerful. And our, our auditorium doesn't seat 588 students. So my plan in my vision is that we would also now that we have these this flex time hopefully built into next year's schedule, that once a week we would have a school meeting, a school community meeting in the gym and or by class, maybe freshman sophomore in the auditorium and then junior senior.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And we sit and it's face time. It's not over the intercom when a bunch of stuff is going on for, you know, 2 or 3 minutes in the morning,

[R7313-96] Richard Seaman | Claremont School Board Chair (first name 'Richard' via the superintend | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: going at Stevens this this week? What are the things that are out there for you for community service? And it's a weekly community meeting. So those are some of the things that I hope will help that inner culture, but also that communication piece.
TEXT> We're also coming into presidential election time shortly, and we know they love to come to Claremont.  So it's a great opportunity. We talk civics with Richard, but you just talk about how to showcase your building, how to showcase your students, how to showcase what we are, and to have that opportunity to bring them into our building.  It's as it's as good, if not better, and a  venue then there is anywhere around here.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Community service with a student or a group of students over the course of a year. We have community service projects. There were presentations last week at Stevens High School

[R7313-97] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named 'Middleton' by the business administrator | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: about how to showcase your building, how to showcase your students, how to showcase what we are, and to have that opportunity to bring them into our building. It's as it's as good, if not better, and a venue then there is anywhere around here.
TEXT> Community service with a student or a group of students over the course of a year.  We have community service projects. There were presentations last week at Stevens High School by by seniors, but with community service, be aligned with students who would write articles. Right.  Editorials regarding certain parts of our school district,  to give the students perspective and some of it to be informational and some of it to be from the students land. Would that be a connection or is that more a part?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Oh, no, that would absolutely. The definition that we follow for community service is doing something for your community where there's nothing in it for yourself. So if the students

