[R10274-55] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: School planning the survey questions.
TEXT> The climate  and culture, continual conversation at the board level. And one of the things that have come up multiple times is if can we survey folks around what they're thinking is as part of our system of care grant that we receive, we have a partnership with Antioch University New England, and they conduct a school climate survey of personnel, family and student perceptions of school climate. Last year was the first year that we did the survey. And if you recall, last year all of the questions were very scripted because it was a survey administered across multiple bodies, not just our district. And for the data to be statistically reliable, it needed to follow a certain format. This year we have the opportunity to add up to five additional questions to the survey questions that are already developed. And I know  that this is something that is of interest to this board, and I  am hoping to get some feedback about either specific questions you'd like to add, or general themes of questions you'd like us to address. If you don't have a specific question formulated at this time,  and we can add those five questions to the survey, it's administered the same way as it has been.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's an electronic administration, meaning that people get a link, a safe and secure link that they follow and fill out. The survey is done between March and May. So

[R10274-103] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (former Claremo | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: And they have a proposal to share with you for your approval for the summer.
TEXT> So one of the things I heard a lot about when I was looking at this position was and when I was on the board was, how do we use our buildings more in the summer? We said here, empty. Most of the time the students are not here on summer break. One of the things that we talked about, and with Dave, we've connected and we're talking about doing a summer carpentry course for our Sullivan County inmates. It would be in the evening. We're looking like a 530 to 9 p.m..  Most of those inmates are in addiction counseling during the day, so we hold it at night. We're looking at a six week program and up to 12 inmates, and we're looking due to it during July 8th to August 15th outside of the normal school hours, when we're, not in session,  the class will have an instruction portion in the beginning, and then they'll do a lot of hands on work. I've already talked to our instructor, Mr. Michael Bennett. He said he's willing to do that program for those six weeks. What we're looking at is building some lab projects for the community picnic tables. There's a gazebo that's being designed for the Sullivan County nursing home that they'd like to put out there. We're looking at framing some lean tos for the scout camp, the local one, as well as many libraries for the community.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We have discussed an agreed upon price of $7,500 that cover our expenses for supplies, for building rental, and for the salaries for Mr. Bennett. Well, during that time we

[R10274-112] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah.
TEXT> Just for clarification, I think more for the public than for myself during this time. There are no students in the building.  That is correct at all.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: That is correct. Traditionally, we do not have students in the evening and we do not have them in the summer. So it's very.

[R10274-113] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (former Claremo | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jason Benware: Just for clarification, I think more for the public than for myself during this time. There are no students in the building. That is correct at all.
TEXT> That is correct. Traditionally, we do not have students in the evening and we do not have them in the summer. So it's very.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Clear that this is inmates by themselves with an instructor and no interaction.

[R10274-146] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; superintendent search committee mem | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Then you good?
TEXT> Can I go ahead? Okay. All right. I'm just wondering, have you thought of the criteria for student entry yet, or what would that look like?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We have not thought of that. One of the things we talked about is if we if we have to charge a fee, we were talking about $25 a student

[R10274-147] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (former Claremo | 2019-03-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Can I go ahead? Okay. All right. I'm just wondering, have you thought of the criteria for student entry yet, or what would that look like?
TEXT> We have not thought of that.  One of the things we talked about is if we if we have to charge a fee, we were talking about $25 a student for the week to help cover our supplies.  We were looking at maximum of 20 students. Again, this is really infantry infant stage for us. And we I think we got to get out there and try it. And we find that doesn't meet what we're trying to do by really promoting the tech center and getting some kids some skills, then we'll rethink it for next year. But I do think that it's a great opportunity to serve the community. I know Newport does it. They pay for it out of title one funds and core, and I've talked a little bit about it and that's that's really a tight budget on that. So it wouldn't be possible for us here.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Thanks.

[R10274-151] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: to do this? I'll offer it to any companies out there. Would that like to sponsor us, or we would be more than willing to take your check. So and your support and a banner would be well hung and promoted in the tech center.
TEXT> So, during your infancy stage, if you have these 20 children and say some of them don't have, $25, but really want to be a part of it,  do you have  a way, do you have that backup for them in case they want to go?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: I don't, but I've talked to Mr. Romeo. He has kind of a scholarship or, I'm sorry, a grant he might have available to work. But there's real specific parameters

[R10274-157] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (former Claremo | 2019-03-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Set your course.
TEXT> I don't know about. We still would need a full time teacher there. That would be my. But yes, we've looked at trying to look at if we can have we'd like to call mentors and interns and be break it down the groups into smaller five five kids at a time with a mentor to work that week. And it would be a high school student.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I think that's terrific.

[R10274-161] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: We're getting over our time on this. So, Jason, this last question.
TEXT> Just wanted to say I'm happy that your you're getting together and taking this initiative to, to introduce these younger kids to this because, you know, we've had this conversation and the idea of giving these people the idea that this is available to them at an earlier age and planting the seed, really, I think, is going to strengthen our CTE program over the next several years. So anything that you're doing that's like that, I'm in full support of. So thank you.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Thank you.

[R10274-188] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: IEPs didn't have access to a least restricted environment, which means being in a classroom with typically developing peers. Well, all of our classrooms, our early childhood classrooms, that means 50% of the kids are typically developing and 50% of the kids are on IEPs.
TEXT> But all children have services.  And we have a wait list, which is great. We have a program director. That would be me and a special education coordinator, which we need because children start getting referred to preschool at 27 months. And so from 27 months up until their age eligible for preschool, which is three, we have to do evaluations and we have to have referral meetings. So pages caseload is about 39 right now  and the referrals keep on coming. The creative curriculum. Was implemented this year.  And we are also going to start using the inventory of early learning. And so that will be the assessment that we start using as a screener. But it will also be the same tool used appropriate for kindergarten screenings. And so the snapshot is now going to be even broader. And again data tells the story. The earlier we can provide supports the greater the outcome. So when we look at the evidence, the the data that we get from the coaching, when we look at the waitlist, the action plan, our low staff turnover rate last year, only one person left.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: That's a far cry different from when I came on board. We had we were not out of compliance with Doe, which is wonderful. I also implemented a work climate

[R10274-191] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: accessible. And this is just one small area of the playground, the front of the playground, which is a much larger space. That's where the new equipment will go that Alex's students are going to make. Here's our partners, our CTE partners. In the demographics.
TEXT> So again, if we want to change the demographics and we want kids to have better outcomes, it all starts in preschool. We're doing what we can to make that happen. And we would like to continue the wonderful progress that we have been, making over the past two years.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And that's all. You have any questions.

[R10274-196] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: like. Like, are you going to have, you know, the kids come in for a day for the screening and then you have your teachers administer the grant? Brigance or is it going to be one. Person that is during. Or how thoughts on that.
TEXT> So the Bergen's it will be it will be used as a screening tool. So when a child. Is. Referred to the program.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay.

[R10274-213] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: receiving extra speech and language support or ot support if they didn't go to preschool and get that additional boost ten hours a week. I'm pretty sure that without that, when they went to kindergarten, they would end up being identified and needing an IEP.
TEXT> We just have to be really careful about that though, right? Because there are requirements by law based on how many typical you can have in a classroom versus kids, who are identified,  are there still laws around that?
NEXT> Diane Edwards: Well, so for the early childhood program, the model requires 50, no more than 50% of identified kids. So we're not so focused on identifying we're more focused on supports.

[R10274-214] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: We just have to be really careful about that though, right? Because there are requirements by law based on how many typical you can have in a classroom versus kids, who are identified, are there still laws around that?
TEXT> Well, so for the early childhood program, the model requires 50, no more than 50% of identified kids. So we're not so focused on identifying we're more focused on supports. But as we get closer to kindergarten, if somebody definitely needs ongoing supports, then we assess and then we identify.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If that's what it needs to.

[R10274-220] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: So the preschool has the same start and end date as kindergarten.
TEXT> Okay. That's great. Now during the off time, is there opportunity for children to be able to access otherwise or you.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Summer programing? Is there a summer programing for preschool?

[R10274-225] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Extended school year. And that is available to how many of your free schoolers?
TEXT> We all have three classrooms and we can take up to 12 kids in two of the classrooms and six and the other.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So not all of the preschoolers are eligible for the program.

[R10274-232] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: And how many what's the total how many total identified students are there in the program?
TEXT> So are  we. Cap out at total enrollment 72. And half of that is for kids on IEPs.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: 36.

[R10274-235] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other questions.
TEXT> I just I, I appreciate the job program that says and I just like the tenants are out that that when it started a while ago it was called the baby Cardinal. And it was accused of things to see that especially from the upper levels of children, and even through to the parents and the community that we start with the being current nose and is right. I didn't care that that much genetics or like hopefully.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: So that's our logo. The logo is the baby Cardinal.

[R10274-259] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Michelle Pierce: just kind of wondering how it's getting relayed related out. As beautiful as great job is when I make sure it gets out to the especially the parents and the children, because this shows how wonderful things are improving, especially over the last three years.
TEXT> It hasn't been distributed via backpacks or to students, but I can look into how we can make that happen. It, my recommendation would not be to distribute via backpacks just because it is costly to make them, but I believe. I'll, I'll, I just want to check a couple things, but I believe I can distribute the PDF version of that, electronically to all families. So certainly that can get out that way. But then we do I think we print 500 print 550 hard copies, which is part of the state requirement to have at polling locations. And so those will be available.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Okay. And,

[R10274-290] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: taking our specific questions back to the Department of Ed in order to get those specific questions answered. So we know that we are in good standing and to be able to move forward timely and meet the required deadlines that we have to meet.
TEXT> I just wanted to put this out here because there was an article in yesterday's Eagle Times and it was talking about the Newport meeting of their budget and all of that, and there was a section in there that talked about school lunch debt. They have a $12,000 school lunch debt. Right now. They're about half the population of students, as we have, which is equivalent to what our or so it's roughly equivalent to what our school lunch debt is here. The other thing about it is they have a completely different food service provider. It's a cafe services rather than what we're dealing with. So when we talk about school lunch debt, this is not a unique situation and I'm not sure it's a provider specific problem.  I just wanted to throw that out there because I was kind of I wasn't shocked to see this, and I just thought it was interesting to see it at a different district than just hours, because we made the paper a lot.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. So Michelle, Carolyn, and then Rebecca.

[R10274-294] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; superintendent search committee mem | 2019-03-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: the letter and but I just think we're seeing that this is a, more of just a Claremont problem. It's many, many areas. And, maybe we can get ahead of the curve by asking for some help because other communities need the same help. So.
TEXT> So I think we should find out if the car  would be under a substantial item that we might be able to change. Remember, you just said we have to ask that question or ask questions, right? And I don't know if the board agrees with that, but that would be, a request for me. And, I also think we should we should somehow have a discussion about the quality of food. You know, if if I'm going based off my own kids reporting.  My oldest daughter said to me the other day, it was awesome when they first started, and now I don't even want it anymore because she didn't get lunch and she came home and she picked out. And my eighth grader is doing the same thing. He's skipping lunch now and he's coming home and picking out. So maybe if we could just figure out how to, get some feedback on the quality of the food. And also then there's been some concerns from parents in the community about  running out of food before,  lunches over. So we just maybe if we could inquire on that and get some feedback and gather around that too, that would be good.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I had some conversations. This was a conversation with the administrative team on Monday evening, and I know that at least one of the schools was reporting that they've run

[R10274-298] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; superintendent search committee mem | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Food. I think that that's important because that also came up as a concern that the, the, the quality has shifted. And,
TEXT> It worries me because my kids eat anything and they eat a lot of it. So when they're not even wanting to eat chicken nuggets or French fries or pizza, that's concerning. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So here's my thought or possible proposal.

[R10274-311] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: The ball. Okay. We're going to start second time around through questions. So, Michelle.
TEXT> Just wanted to say that,  the, one of the things we said when we did the contract, when we came to the board to, to put it out there, was that all children had access to a salad bar in each of the schools, which they made work within their proposal. I believe it's the only one they didn't do is the high school, which wasn't one of them. So. They're they're in my opinion, they're able to be worked with  really well. Because that was that's a really big thing to be asking. And, and it happened and my grandson absolutely loves the salad bar. It's wonderful. And, and it gives other kids the opportunity because Abby Group also does the chef program, I believe could do, you know, can you explain more about the chef program?
NEXT> Jason Benware: I think what you're talking about is chef's choice is that.

[R10274-313] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jason Benware: I think what you're talking about is chef's choice is that.
TEXT> Yes, they also do like a chef's choice. And they pick and they're given a award and everything. So you know they take one child and bring them up. It is a very great group as far as like communicating to see if we can change things. They were willing to do that during contract.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: When Jason, Carolyn and then Jessie.

[R10274-318] Jesse | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (first | 2019-03-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well.
TEXT> For starters, I just wanted to clarify  something that I'm Michel had said about how there wasn't a salad bar at the high school. There is one at the high school, and I know that it happens to be quite popular. A lot of students do use the salad bar. I'm speaking with a family friend who works at CMS for the Abbey food Group. The salad bar there is popular as well.  I haven't eaten in the school cafeteria much within the last two years. There were a couple of times last year between band and choir when I would go down and I would say that I was satisfied with the quality of the food. I mean, a lot of days, there were days where I would just purchase like a parfait or something small. But I mean, they had good salad options and good sandwich options as well. I would say it's a definite improvement over the quality of the food. Before the Abbey Group contract was put into place. There there are some areas where where there might have been issues. I know the theater program used to do a coffee fundraiser where they'd sell coffee in the hallway in the morning, but they're not able to to do that anymore.
NEXT> Jesse: Under the terms of the contract, the Abbey Group operates a breakfast cart in the front hallway, which which I think is also doing quite well. We had talks about

[R10274-349] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Lunch met requirements.
TEXT> Yeah. As long as the lunch met, the the requirements of the complete reimbursable meal for students, then, I believe so.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Two points. When we do meet with them, I'm assuming that the agenda is full for the 20th. So is it.

[R10274-398] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I know you're talking about the measurement for kind of like the academic stuff. I'm wondering if you guys have put any thought into a measurement or tool or assessment, or give you some ideas on functional skills. It'd be great. Measure the functional stuff.
TEXT> Yeah. If you can email me some ideas. That would be lovely. I don't know. Currently what we do have in place and what we don't have in place. I, I wouldn't want to speak off the top of my head right now because I wouldn't want to misspeak, but that would be great. And just looking at different ways to measure the whole child and the impact of the time they have with us. That'd be great. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R10294-89] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-03-20
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Middle School, has qualified to advance to the New Hampshire state level of the geography be on March 29th after winning the CMS. B Aidan's geography skills were tested again at all other school champions in the state, where he scored in the top 100.
TEXT> The principal says congratulations and way to show that Eagle Pride from Desert Elementary School.  They were celebrating Doctor Seuss's birthday and read Across America Week. Students have been working together to help the Cat in the hat go 2802 miles all the way from Maine to California. Kids have been reading at night and submitting a daily reading ticket for every five minutes. Students read the Cat in the hat travels one mile. And on March 28th, Designer Pride Award Assembly.  The different times are on that sheet listed and the.  On March 29th, the first grade and seventh grade will be going to opera House for a field trip. And at Maple Avenue School  on Thursday, March 28th.  Author Michael J. A will be at Maple Avenue. Michael is an award winning author, master and story teller, ecologist, educator, poet and musician.  I did not find anything on bluff, so that is why they're not on the report.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But questions for Prescott. I have one if you say a running club.

[R10294-104] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Do things on the horizon. Tonight is actually the Saint Joe's Sports Awards.  And,  being honored tonight. Are  the following students. Top male athlete is Trey. Unsung male athlete Carson Klein. Stuber. Top female athlete is Audrey. An unsung female athlete is Leann McCarthy. So I don't recall the which anniversary year. This is for the same Joseph Sports Awards, but it's been going on for a long time. And so it's a nice opportunity for us to honor our, our athletes and unsung athletes.  At Stevens High School. So thank you to all of those involved in that.  Senator Hassan is visiting the tech center tomorrow.  For a private tour. Is part of her workforce initiative, and she's visiting  career and technical education centers around the state. So she will be visiting hours tomorrow.  So we'll be exciting to get to meet her and  provide a tour. Doctor Herzog will be connecting with her. We have  an early release day this Friday for professional development for staff. And so,  don't forget that your children will be getting home early.  And on that note, our last day of school is still projected to be June 14th.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We've only had one official snow day this year, and so we should still be getting out June 14th, regardless of what the weather wants to do this Friday morning.

[R10294-105] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: be connecting with her. We have an early release day this Friday for professional development for staff. And so, don't forget that your children will be getting home early. And on that note, our last day of school is still projected to be June 14th.
TEXT> We've only had one official snow day this year, and so we should still be getting out June 14th, regardless of what the weather wants to do this Friday morning.  Last but not least, we have several schools who have participated in the Cliff program, and it's a literacy program, and they provide,  grants for schools across New England, or at least New Hampshire and Vermont. That's how the author is coming to Maple Avenue School and then  in partnership between the Cliff program and TLC,  Duncan MacDougall will be at the Claremont Savings Bank Community Center tomorrow evening at 5 p.m. for our storytime.  Students who attend will get a free book. It is geared  toward younger students and,  the students with the greatest participation for a class will receive a piece of party sponsored by TLC. So Duncan  author Duncan McDougall will  will be at Claremont Savings Bank tomorrow night at five. So we're getting toward the end of the third quarter, about to start the fourth quarter, which means we're in the home stretch. Life gets busier and busier for everybody in the next couple of months as the year winds down as summer sports and spring sports kickoff.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And as we see the celebrations of student work across the district. So there will be lots of upcoming events, lots of fliers going out to folks. And just hopefully

[R10294-160] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we're really, really proud of you guys and girls.
TEXT> Definitely was a really good. It was. And the good thing was it was all team effort. It wasn't one kid for the. Ian actually did not go really well that day that we actually won the championship. Keegan McAllister, who was here tonight? He was phenomenal. He everything we asked him to do, he did. And he bowled JV all year long. And we brought him up for the for the varsity final match. So it was kind of cool to see him. And also he's the only one in the last 50 years to have two state in 30 years to have two state championships for one. One student. We headed with the football team and now the bowling team. Yeah, really.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: A couple of unusual things about bowling is that, they're mixed teams, boys and girls on the same team, and it's the only sport that I can think of that

[R10294-231] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So.
TEXT> The agenda made a whole lot of sense before I looked at it this evening and realized we had a lunch counter then, and I already presentation then a lunch conversation. But we're going to flow with it that way anyway because we didn't change it. So the this is just the summary conversation that we've had recurring on the agenda. As of March 12th, we had 431 negative accounts totaling 21,974. So again, we  are  our outstanding balance really isn't increasing from where it had been. So that's good. We sort of  held the line in terms of increasing our debt.  I know that our staff are taking the time to make calls to families, setting up payment plans where it's appropriate,  and making sure that families are classified properly, that they have all the information they need to be successful with their with their child's school lunch. And so, just a summary. We have 269 paid accounts totaling $16,499.62. We have 117 benefit eligible accounts totaling $4,924.14. I think that's one of the things that people are most confused about, because if a student  qualifies for free or reduced lunch, there is the possibility that they still have debt. And it could be because they didn't qualify at the beginning of the year, or they didn't fill out the paperwork at the beginning of the year.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And there was a lapse between when last year's status ended and when their paperwork was completed. For this year, it could be because they've added additional items. There's a

[R10294-232] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: if a student qualifies for free or reduced lunch, there is the possibility that they still have debt. And it could be because they didn't qualify at the beginning of the year, or they didn't fill out the paperwork at the beginning of the year.
TEXT> And there was a lapse between when last year's status ended and when their paperwork was completed. For this year, it could be because they've added additional items. There's a lot of different reasons for that. And so, you know, there is some accrued by folks who do qualify for free or reduced lunch.  We have 11 withdrawn student accounts totaling $210.25, and we have 34 staff accounts totaling $340.85.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Ten bucks.

[R10294-292] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's for people that are watching.
TEXT> Okay, there we go. Okay,  so I already is. For those of you that may not know, we use this as our district assessment for math and reading K to  grade ten.  So we take it three times a year, once in the fall, once in the winter, around January, and once again at the end of the year. We focus on growth a lot. That's really where we want to see. We want to see kids grow throughout the year, not necessarily  where they're at grade level wise. In the past, I already has had one single score that students are trying to reach. So if, let's say they wanted fourth graders to move 19 points in one year, and that was for every every student across the board this, this past year, they changed their growth model. And  they now have two separate numbers.  And it's based on where the student has performed. So it depends on where they if so, if there are one grade level below, it'll give them a different number to reach for than it would for a student who is on grade level. Their typical growth is the average growth. So that's the growth that we want to see in a typical student.
NEXT> Bryn: And then there's a stretch growth. And it's just that it has two purposes really. The first purpose is to give students who are on or above grade level that

[R10294-307] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: Jason.
TEXT> Is there a when we look at, percentages of. Children who have met the where they need to be, at the end of the year, and it's 41% or say we look down and we see 32% of our people are 19% or below. Is there a goal,  a typical number that we shoot for this time of year to say, okay, we're on track.
NEXT> Bryn: It's different. That's a great question. I don't have the actual answer. I can look into it. My guess is we're halfway through the year. 50% is what we're shooting

[R10294-322] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: I know when.
TEXT> I first saw this, I was like, wait a second. Some kids have gone above and beyond what their goals were. We have students who really score really low because they might not give it their full effort or  they might not, give it, you know, show us what they really know. And then they go in January and they blow it out of the park and  they go up like 60 points or something. Yeah.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's just contrary to there's no such thing beyond 100%, isn't it? I mean, as far as that goes, unless.

[R10294-342] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: that sort of is consistent with an T type of model. So there's a response to a response to instruction. It's the same intervention instruction. It's the same. So you sort of there's a behavioral model and then there's the academic. It's the same pattern.
TEXT> So and there's this they added kindergarten in there. I know why it's there. It's because, there were some kids that took it over the summer for the kindergarten camp that we had. So that's not a real accurate picture of what, kindergarten where kindergartens at right now. I thought I took it out, but it's still there. But first through fifth grade is still there. Showing you similar numbers that we had for reading. Same with, six through eighth grade.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Oh, sorry.

[R10294-349] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: high school. I know that they don't do the online instruction at the high school. They just use it for diagnostic purposes. So I don't know what their interventions look like. If they have a flex block, I don't. That would be for Steven. So.
TEXT> And Steven is actually, he left this afternoon to go out of town for a  noun. New England League of middle school training with the middle school principal. So he's there this evening, so unable to attend this. But he'd be better able to speak to what the interventions at the high school look like. I will say, unless something has changed, the students we test at the high school are those enrolled in a math or an  A class for that semester. So if you're not enrolled in a particular math class in that semester, you wouldn't take the assessment even if you're in ninth grade. Just because if you're not receiving math instruction, you wouldn't be expected to demonstrate progress or lack thereof on a math assessment, necessarily.  So it's more specific to those in an English classes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There's a lot of entry points for ninth grader coming into Stephens. They might be in an algebra A class. That might be in algebra one. They might be in

[R10294-355] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah, that would be very helpful for schedule.
TEXT> We do share. I already data  between the middle school and the high school. And we have this tool now. So it's a tool that we can use. And something Brian mentioned a moment ago was the instruction piece. So at the lower levels there's an instructional component to I read. So it's not just the diagnostic assessment, but it is then also targeted instruction for students. And that is adaptive. And based on their scores on the diagnostic assessment, it's done on the computer. It's designed to be independent. And students are designed it's designed for students to be able to interface with that instruction without teacher support. The goal is 45 minutes in each content area each week in that instruction. And so  we have the ability to monitor how much students are really getting during that time. I can speak from the parent lens of a first grader. He can, without parental support, go on the computer, find I ready, access his information, and engage in lessons on the computer that are targeted to the skills that he's  working on. So, students are able to do that in addition to the diagnostic piece. And so that's rotated through classrooms as a  center or  a period of time during the week, slightly different models in each of the elementary schools. But that instructional component is paired with the diagnostic component.
NEXT> Bryn: Have a few more, it's a different report. It gives you a clear percentage of students who are on or above grade level, and below grade level. It's the light

[R10294-356] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: to do that in addition to the diagnostic piece. And so that's rotated through classrooms as a center or a period of time during the week, slightly different models in each of the elementary schools. But that instructional component is paired with the diagnostic component.
TEXT> Have  a few more, it's a different report. It gives you a clear percentage of students who are on or above grade level, and below grade level.  It's the light blue is from January. The dark blue is from fall. Most areas show some good growth for each grade level. Any questions about that report. So that's grades one through five. Grades six through eight also. And grades nine and ten. And then math. We have the same. Same report.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Just so yes. We don't have anybody in grades one through five in the whole district. That's above level.

[R10294-366] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Seems a little weird.
TEXT> Yeah, because I know when I was last year, I know I had kids.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Because you got it all the way through, all the way across through 10th grade. It says nothing above level. Nobody.

[R10294-374] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: It has to be.
TEXT> Yeah I don't I yeah. Because that's a teacher last year I know  I have kids that scored above grade level.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: So yeah.

[R10294-376] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Mary Woodman: So yeah.
TEXT> I can think of kids that are.
NEXT> Bryn: Yeah.

[R10294-396] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm just worried.
TEXT> I know that there are certain children  that just aren't quality test takers. Does this take any provisions for children like that?
NEXT> Bryn: So yeah, it does. They have the opportunity to earn points. It's kind of like a video game almost. They earn points throughout their, they're their tests and their lessons,

[R10294-398] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: kids are so used to it at this point that they know what to expect. I think that's helpful. There's training videos that they can watch if the teacher chooses to do that. So I think there's a lot of it's very appealing to kids.
TEXT> It's a computer adaptive assessment, meaning that it it asks harder questions or  easier questions. A child is getting approximately half of them correct and half of them wrong. And at that point where they're getting half the questions correct and half the questions wrong, that's their don't have proximal development. That's their keyed in instructional point. And then the instruction that the assessment generates is based on that that point in their progress. And so it's a pretty. And for the younger students we've had some complaints at the middle level that it's two babyish or it's not engaging enough. But for the younger students it's it's a fairly engaging assessment. They often enjoy it not always, but they often enjoy it. And because it's on the computer and computer adaptive and there's cartoons and different things of that nature, they often don't realize it's assessment the same way you would if you had a bubble sheet and a paper and pencil task in front of you. So to my knowledge, we haven't seen the same level of, fatigue or aversion to testing as we have seen with other formats of tests in the past. I think it also has a lot to do with how it's being used in the individual classroom. I think we've had some instances where students kind of get burnt out a little bit, and we have to recalibrate and change things up and try a different approach.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so we've been monitoring that across the district.

[R10294-400] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: And so we've been monitoring that across the district.
TEXT> So if a student is doing well, they're getting asked more and more and more questions harder. So are they gaming the system where they're just like, I'm just done with this. Let me just fail out.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So there's there are, algorithms built into the system so that you can't just click your way out. It'll stop. You'll have to get a teacher to help, you know.

[R10294-402] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: So there's there are, algorithms built into the system so that you can't just click your way out. It'll stop. You'll have to get a teacher to help, you know.
TEXT> Well, and it'll it'll give you a flag. So it gives teachers red flags and yellow flags. The red flags basically mean that's what they did. And we can kind of have conversations with students and say, you know, what was going on here? Because I know you know how to do this. But it's also really important for teachers to be actively proctoring to make sure that that's not happening.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Jason, I also think it's important that the the lower grade levels to that, the teacher really explains to the kids the nature of the test and how it works.

[R10294-416] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm going to ask the last question on this topic and we're going to move on. So what's next? What's the expectation for the administrators and teachers from a, from a, from a sore point of view? What are people's marching orders going to be?
TEXT> I mean, we're still really focusing on making sure students get the time  on, their, their lessons every week. It's a struggle from everyday life to half days because we have snow or. So it's it's a struggle during the winter to get that in. So I think that's still a focus for us is to try to make sure that that goal is being met, because that's what I already recommends for us to have. I know, that was really our goal kind of last year or two. And it's still it's still an important goal. So I think that's the biggest, the biggest area that we need to make sure that we're we're doing well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And so when will we have another report. Will it.

[R10294-431] Deb Belanger | Food service director for Claremont, Abbey Group (named by acting supe | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: where we need to renew our food service contract with them if that's what the board chooses to do. That's basically now we have to do that. And so it's an opportunity for you to ask questions prior to that process. So, Deb and Jason.
TEXT> I guess I'll start with Alex, and I just  we just want to clarify the process and how how the  cart works. And I know I  there's like, confusion as to the lunch debt, but the Alucard has nothing to do with the lunch debt. So any child that goes through the line and purchases, whether it's I scream or chips or a milk, they have to either have money on their account or pay cash. And I think there's a lot of confusion, because I think that some people feel that they can charge an item, but that is not possible. So  it's.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Like that. Correct me if I'm wrong though. There was a small period of time in the beginning of the year where there were a la carte charges. So like

[R10294-433] Deb Belanger | Food service director for Claremont, Abbey Group (named by acting supe | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: Like that. Correct me if I'm wrong though. There was a small period of time in the beginning of the year where there were a la carte charges. So like this long?
TEXT> Yeah. Like maybe when the board, I think changed the charging policy. So that was, I want to say maybe like a week or two. You know, we posted it on the registers. I really don't think the students really were aware. So I don't think a lot of charges were charged during that time, so.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So a kid who comes in and they have no money, but they, they then they've nobody provided them a lunch and they get fed. Their choice is a hot

[R10294-434] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Deb Belanger: policy. So that was, I want to say maybe like a week or two. You know, we posted it on the registers. I really don't think the students really were aware. So I don't think a lot of charges were charged during that time, so.
TEXT> So  a kid who comes in and they have no money, but they, they  then they've nobody provided them a lunch and they get fed. Their choice is a hot lunch or the sandwich  option or whatever. They can't go grab a tray full of other stuff.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: Correct.

[R10294-452] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Mary Woodman: Okay.
TEXT> So you have some alternatives. So just so you know, as food service providers, we are here to do what you want us to do. We don't set up or or require you to do. You're going to sail any other way than your board directs us to handle for you. You could only allow children to purchase a la carte items if they  had a positive balance on their account, so they couldn't even come through with a dollar and purchase. They would have to put that dollar on their account, and then their account would be positive. Right now, if you have a student who owes $200, if they come up to the register with $2, they can buy chips. I can buy a drink.  We don't know if that money was sent to the school for lunch, and they're charging their lunches and using the money that mom sent  to buy to buy a la carte.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So if we.

[R10294-455] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Mary Woodman: Okay.
TEXT> So you can't really navigate away from all the cart sales because milk is an all a cart sale,  so you can't get rid of your a la carte altogether because there's not a school in the country that does not have a la carte milk sales. So if you have a cold lunch, you want to be able to provide milk to a student. So you can't. But we can regulate by school, by district what we're selling, what we're not selling. If you don't want to sell ice cream and chips, we have no problem. But Deb's going to tell you  what the income from your a la carte sales were last year.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's where I was going to go. I was going.

[R10294-467] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Deb Belanger: Yeah. You're welcome.
TEXT> So, I'm glad you made that clear, because that's that's kind of important.  Some questions have been brought up, however, about a couple of questions or issues, I guess, at the schools. On more than one occasion, I've heard somebody say there has been issues with availability of food and running out, number one. And secondly, the quality of the food. Many people suggest that the quality of the food has changed over the over the year, and not for the better.  Is there a  any truth to this? Have you changed? Have your cooks changed?  Have have, I mean, I do know that there have been times at the school my kids go to where the menu says one thing and something else gets served. Is this common or.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: No. So as far as running out of food, I'll start with that question. So I don't know of any school that's ever run out of food because there's so

[R10294-474] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Deb Belanger: Right.
TEXT> And  the availability of food for all, all kids. I know it's hard to estimate, but it's really important.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: I feel that we, you know, we've been here a year and a half. You know, we've documented our meals, we forecast, we go back, we go to look, last

[R10294-475] Deb Belanger | Food service director for Claremont, Abbey Group (named by acting supe | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And the availability of food for all, all kids. I know it's hard to estimate, but it's really important.
TEXT> I feel that we, you know, we've been here a year and a half. You know, we've documented our meals, we forecast, we go back, we go to look, last time we had spaghetti, you know, 150 kids eat spaghetti. The main meal I want to say we always forecast enough. We might not forecast maybe enough sandwiches or we always have them. They're available, but we're not going to make 150 switches, 150 parfaits and 150 spaghetti. So we have to use, you know, our past data and go with that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right. So there's different schools. Your schools have a lot of of children in them. But some schools will do a list in the morning, a check, you know, when

[R10294-476] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Deb Belanger: we always forecast enough. We might not forecast maybe enough sandwiches or we always have them. They're available, but we're not going to make 150 switches, 150 parfaits and 150 spaghetti. So we have to use, you know, our past data and go with that.
TEXT> Right. So there's different schools. Your schools have a lot of of children in them. But some schools will do a list in the morning, a check, you know, when you're doing attendance,  hot lunch, cold lunch, sandwich, yogurt parfait, and they send it down. This way we can kind of base our numbers on that. And there's other ways that we can do it. You can call in. We're looking at our our software to have a system next year in place that you can order from home so that the chef opens it up in the morning. And there is what every parent has ordered for the whole month. And so we can go in and it will give us a tally like a a  chef ticket at a restaurant. It will tell us that we need to as long as everybody's participating.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: That.

[R10294-479] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Unidentified: have that at home. Accessibility phones aren't really meant for these types of of POS systems. So but there's all there are ways that we're trying to address it. So we have never run out of a reimbursable meal at any school in your district.
TEXT> So it sounds like it's very helpful when the schools are able to compile that list and give it to you prior to when you're making the meals. I'm wondering if that's what is a possibility.  I don't need to know how many schools are doing that right now or anything like that, but what's the possibility of that becoming like the the norm until you know, the norm for the teacher to take the checklist of what this kid was having for lunch? I know they do. Hot and cold lunch.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: We could look into it.

[R10294-500] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: to work in the schools, I would have someone come to me and they'd say, well, everybody feels this way. And when I kind of mind that out, one person said that. So, that might be just periodic. How are we doing kind of surveys.
TEXT> So we do in we have another districts that we've been established in for a longer period of time. We'll send home a survey asking kids what they would like to see on the menus, things that the parents would like to see on the menus. We've had kids say, you know, beef tenderloin, clam strips,  lobsters. And so it does help. And I know Deb has set up a food service committee meetings in each of the buildings.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: We're working on that.

[R10294-502] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Deb Belanger: We're working on that.
TEXT> So what it is, is it's a parent, a teacher,  the food service director, the chef and a student. And so  we send, we meet, and then we send the student back out into the building to kind of gather information from their friends and come back to us, and let us know what they're thinking.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's the kind of thing that could happen during advisory, say, where they could do a survey during advisory with the help of that committee. So, Rob, do you have.

[R10294-510] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: gap, that loss, I would like you to be forthcoming to the assistant superintendent and let her know what's going on. And this is what you're seeing, and maybe this could correct some of the loss. I would hope that that exchange goes on to.
TEXT> And I think that it does. I want you to know, and it's important to know, Michael was at a meeting with this with Vermont and New Hampshire feed, just last week. They came into your district because they had seen your outstanding lunch debt. And they were concerned that it had something to do with your free and reduced students not being able or being qualified to get meals. We don't believe that that's the issue. I think that your biggest issue here is your gap families, which are the families that are not approved for free or reduced meals, but are not able to pay for lunch and pay the heating bill. And so we spent a couple of hours with them the other day trying to think of ways to get these forms and the knowledge out to your residents,  letting them know that they can apply on and off all during the year. Putting the forms in pediatrician's office, the post office. The people keep trying to get them filled out. But I don't think that your your wayward debt is is is too much more than those people that honestly can't afford one or the other. You're not the only district. If you google unpaid lunch debt and the United States, you will see that every state and almost every county except for the very wealthy ones are struggling with this problem.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: I and you.

[R10294-512] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Mary Woodman: I and you.
TEXT> Can speak to this as well. I think a lot of the unpaid lunch debt came with the change in the federal law regarding meal service and what the what the school district is required to do to in order to serve meals. And I shared this story. With you, Before, but at lunch service, I notice a student who has their tray of hot lunch in front of them, their cold lunch that their family packed, them sitting on the table right there. And when asked about it, does your does your parent know that you bought a lunch? Nope. They sent me with a lunch. They don't know that I that I got a lunch today, and  I didn't ask if they charged the lunch or if they paid for it out of their account. But I know that we have some of those scenarios because our lunch service providers cannot deny a child a meal if they go through the line and say, I'm hungry.
NEXT> Unidentified: Unless their parent has called up and asked us to put a note on their account that says Sam is not allowed to purchase lunch or milk or ice cream

[R10294-520] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So politically who who sets the the income levels for free and reduced? Is that federal.
TEXT> The. A yes. So it's interesting several years ago well Vermont has always had this program in place.  If you're free in Vermont,  the reduced kids are free as well. You still qualify as a reduced. But Vermont passed legislation, legislation that qualified the reduced kids to be free as well.  New Hampshire tried to do that last year and it got voted down. So you've got kids. I know it doesn't sound like a lot, but if you're paying $0.40 for breakfast and $0.40 for lunch, you've got three kids in school, you can see how that adds up. And if you were making a choice between paying your electric bill, paying your lunch bill, you're going to pay your electric bill first.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So do you guys have any ideas on how we can try and, change the lunch debt? What would what would your thoughts be on that?

[R10294-522] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: So do you guys have any ideas on how we can try and, change the lunch debt? What would what would your thoughts be on that?
TEXT> Well, one of the thoughts that, you have to get them to pay it because if they know they can't pay it, they won't pay it. So Hinsdale School District changed their, their school board made a change about three years ago, and they decided that they would not. No one is allowed to tell a child that they owe money. They weren't going to try to collect that. And their debt has gone just every year has gone up. See, you can carry that debt over so  you can keep it until they hit high school or to a point where they needed to graduate. We have school districts that they cannot graduate until they go into the lunchroom, pay their debt, get it signed, and then they can actually participate in graduation. So there are different things that you can do. It's not it's high, but it's not incredibly high. I mean, you just have to. There's another district that calls at the beginning of the year to make sure that every single family has sent to the napkin, and they have one person that makes a call every  year at the beginning of the year to every single family in the district. It's helped. It's just getting those forms out there and getting people to sign them. There's a stigma attached to it and people don't like to share their information.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The free and reduced lunch list just was released by the Department of Education, and the Claremont School District is one of the higher percentages on the list. There's one

[R10294-574] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: from my classmates is not, not necessarily fix the one that's there because that's 1980s, but maybe something on the front of the building or what? What are some of the options that we have? But, the class of 71 is very interested in that.
TEXT> I think the only other thing to add for the budget discussion in response to the vote is, contracts typically go out around April 15th. So in the next couple of weeks, we'll be finalizing how we're making the reductions that were part of the proposed budget. So that piece has to be carried out at this time. I know that Ben Nestor, our director of special education, and some others who have also been working on the alternative education program for our elementary students for the fall and making sure plans continue and move forward on that. So that's ready to go. So, even though to some degree it seems like the budget vote is the end of the cycle, it's actually the beginning of a different cycle. And so now a lot of things can  can be put into play. In a lot of work is to be done. Okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well thank you. Thank you again. Claremont taxpayers very much. Very much so. Okay. Board resolution, school bus please.

[R10294-613] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Do they have any idea what that would. What that time?
TEXT> Nope. And then the last piece, under the direction from Antioch, they are requesting that schools skip surveying the students because the process is quite cumbersome. So we are looking for support, to just move forward with surveying staff and parents.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So there were some questions there when they were talking about my teacher. So that would be from the parents.

[R10294-615] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So there were some questions there when they were talking about my teacher. So that would be from the parents.
TEXT> This when I shared with you, I believe included all three groups, this school personnel, the family school. And the students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Will. Find a.

[R10294-617] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Will. Find a.
TEXT> Survey item.  So, as long as we are agreeable to not asking the student questions because it is some, we can ignore pages six and seven of this packet and just look at pages four and five. So the questions on pages four and five are the required questions. And we can add up to additional an additional five questions. And I know that, I shared with you all an email from Becky from last year when we were first talking about this. And  I  made a note on my agenda from last time about the specific question that she had put on the table. I  forget the wording right now. But it had to do whether or not folks felt supported by their administrator. And then the reciprocal of that did administrators feel supported by as well?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think I just not I think I thought that because, this is all geared towards teachers, but it's just as important to, include administration in there. That's my thought

[R10294-657] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (sworn in this meeting) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: To teach.
TEXT> Meet their teaching goals or to help students meet the frustration. They have to deal with, not disruption.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Like a classroom makes it difficult for me to reach my teaching goals.

[R10294-671] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair; re-elected chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: You're suggesting possibly trauma responsive environment.
TEXT> Yeah. Where it would be, you know, to student behaviors prevent prevents you from delivering your.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Your teaching goals or your.

[R10294-673] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Your teaching goals or your.
TEXT> Student won't. Antioch put it where they think it fits best anyway?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I'm guessing. Yeah. And I'm not sure if these five questions go at the end or if they are incorporated in. I'm not 100% sure how that works, but I

[R10294-678] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: One question that I always wonder is, do teachers feel equipped to be able to handle the trauma and the behavior and like I feel equipped to handle the behaviors or whatever Antioch comes up with? You know.
TEXT> This one says, I am able to stay calm and caring with students who are distressed.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: No, I don't mean that. I mean like, training. Do they feel like they've had enough training to handle, you know, are they trauma informed? Do they how do they

[R10294-685] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: Screens here.
TEXT> Did we make a decision at all about removing the student school climate?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We did.

[R10294-689] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: That was just blanketed. There was no discussion on it. I get that it's cumbersome, but they seem to be the ones most directly impacted by the school. I don't care how cumbersome it is for these people that were charging.
TEXT> Cumbersome for students and staff. Okay, the the the it's not coming from from  for Antioch. They just it's easy for them. It's the the impact is more on students and staff in the building and trying to get the data collected. That's where their recommendation is. But we certainly I don't say that to shut down the conversation.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Yeah. I mean, if everybody else feels that's a fine thing to do.

[R10294-693] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair; re-elected chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: school questions, they're going to have to talk to the child anyway. I should not be answering whether or not my student feels safe at school. I should be asking my child that. So could we incorporate some of those questions to the family side?
TEXT> Well, my student feels safe at school, is there?
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I know, that's what I'm saying. I shouldn't be able to answer that for my child. I should be going to my child. Do you feel safe at school if

[R10294-704] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Independent of the parent.
TEXT> My my teachers help me when I am upset. I mean, sometimes children don't want to answer these questions with their parents. So can we cherry pick some of these? I and then to your point, if they're already doing a test when they go to turn in their test at the end, can they just a circle these 3 or 4 real quick? Give us some quick feedback.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'm actually with you on this one. I thought I in the very beginning like I, I, I don't think that too many kids are like I would love to

[R10294-715] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Question which.
TEXT> Have ever been any studies or questions done on, the. Validity and effectiveness of, of this kind of a,  survey on kids. As far I don't know if you can do it or not, but, how many of them actually put real true thought and honest answer.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To what great different.

[R10294-728] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: To.
TEXT> I mean, if we're doing this school climate, culture kids are a big part of school. So I would  like.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Nightmare Corey.

[R10294-737] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: vacation last week. She's back this week, so we have two more staff available at the end of this week to continue to compile data, and load that in so that we can move forward with the Claremont 17 audit. And believe it or not.
TEXT> We they have started some work on the Claremont fiscal year 18 audit. They have a young, a young person that works for them that always wears a  gigantic cowboy hat. And so we have affectionately turned him the  cowboy, and he has already put a dent in the student activity funds, for Claremont fiscal year 18. So the 18 audits, once those are complete before June 30th, then we will be up to date. So anything that's not 18 is really catch up. But 18 is done technically up to date. So we technically have dipped our toes in the Claremont 18 audit, which means that there's  good things on the horizon. And the goal is still to finish by the end of the school year and be up to date prior to June 30th. So we continue to work with our auditing firm to have a plan of weekly,  you know, regular check ins. Anything you want to add?
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: It's interesting how they call it a single audit when it's actually the second order you do.

[R10294-853] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: How should they be conducted, what are the pitfalls? Who's responsible for what component of that? We ran through different scenarios, and it was it was awesome to have not only our administrative team in the room, but also to have the police department represented.
TEXT> So we can be very clear about how to handle delicate situations to have the best outcomes for kids. So  we have a wonderful working relationship with them, and it would just be helpful to establish that MOU formally. So that will be coming forward. We'll have the public hearing on the April 3rd date. And we have some other things that are sort of.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: 22. Sorry.

[R10294-901] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair; re-elected chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Just way better for people like me who wants to attend many of them, but not.
TEXT> Working full time and kids to everything. Anything else?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So just on that note, if you do want to attend any of those trainings in person, that require registration, please just reach out to me and I can make

[R10304-124] Mimi | Public commenter, Stevens High School employee (ASR 'Mimi, rise for on | 2019-03-25
PREV> Mimi: meal. I know there have been some questions about, you know, how it tastes and if kids enjoy it. And I think it's important to remember there are federal guidelines with what can go into school lunch. So they have to use whole grain things.
TEXT> So sometimes the spaghetti is extra grainy, as I call it, but it doesn't mean it's not good.  And again, the salad bar is just phenomenal. They do a great job of stocking that for kids. There was fresh strawberries on it this week in March. Fresh strawberries. And they were delicious. And I saw kids getting mounds of strawberries. You know, I see kids making their own salads. Can you stand the salad bar there? Salad. There's tomatoes, there's cucumbers. Sometimes they have, like,  hardboiled eggs. So kids can get a full on meal from a salad if they don't want to get the hot meal, which I think is great. And they also have fruit and they have crackers for the soup. You know, oftentimes they'll have like a vegetable of the month and they'll try and incorporate that into everything they can. So kids might get to try vegetables they don't normally get to try.  And also sometimes once I've never tried and I'm going nine years old. So I always think that's really cool because they're like, oh.
NEXT> Unidentified: These these.

[R10304-243] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (answers Zullo's contact question [355-35 | 2019-03-25
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: The.
TEXT> Submission happens is electronically and different roles within the organization have to be assigned electronically. And then based on the assignment of that role, that role is the only one able to do certain pieces of the application submission, if that makes sense. So my title in the system is different than Mike's title in the system, and is different than the Food Service program assistance title in the system. And so what we've done is we restructured the role assignments so that it isn't all going through Mike's office. Now in terms of being able to be submitted. And we've divided it differently. So, with the intention of workflow increase in speed and efficiency.  And I also wanted to give  a summary, as of March 28th today  of our food service debt, if that's appropriate to talk about right now. And this is  for both districts combined. I believe. So there are 1827 accounts  that owe a total of $4,259.42, so the average there is $2.33 per account. That's the bulk of our accounts only. Oh, an average of $2.33 868 of those accounts are free students, 105 of those accounts are reduced to students, and 854 of those accounts are students in full pay status.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: There are 64 accounts that owe a total of $15,162.30, so the average of those 64 accounts is $236.91 per student. So the bulk of our student population owes, on

[R10304-258] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont; Claremont School Board Chair) (chair: ' | 2019-03-25
PREV> Cory LeClair: When things aren't getting done, she comes to me and I track them down.
TEXT> So this is more of a Claremont. So forgive me more of a Claremont thing than a than a unity thing, but it seems appropriate to bring it up. And it's only Claremont because kids don't graduate from unity. They graduate from Stevens. But I would like it if we can carry that debt forward. I don't know if that debt goes away after a year, what happens to that debt? But that debt should be presented to kids.  About May or or before May saying in the beginning of the year, say when they meet with an assistant principal,  you're not going to get your diploma unless you paid this debt. And I think that conversation because we that's actual authority  that we have,  to not give a diploma until all their debt service. Okay. So I want to make sure that we do that. You know, it's a little more complex because your kids go to Newport, Beaumont and Stevens, so. But in Claremont, we've got to make sure that that moves forward with.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Understood. I do. Think the whole idea of the buck stops here. I mean, ultimately, it's the superintendent that has responsibility for all. Of this. And so when you when

[R10304-264] Rebecca Zullo | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont; Claremont School Board Vice Chair) (cha | 2019-03-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Yeah. No, that's. We're still on food service. So,
TEXT> I like your idea, Frank. I just think a letter to the parents should be sent out as well. So they know their kids are not going to graduate if they don't pay up. A lot of the things that I've been seeing in regard to  the bills are some of them, you know, the concerns are teachers being charged when they're they haven't gotten the hot lunch. Parents sending in checks and then those checks aren't being cashed, even though the teacher is reporting that the parent that the parent has given the check and the check has gone to the Abbey group. Whoever the lunch person is that takes those. There's been some comments about teachers who don't work in the district and they're getting billed. And parents being charged when their kids aren't getting the lunch. I know that's happened to me. And really I don't sweat the small stuff. But it is important, you know, if that keeps repeatedly happening with a bunch of people that's kind of a big deal. So would d be the person that if people are experiencing these things, they can contact D or who should they contact?
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Yeah.

[R10304-266] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (answers Zullo's contact question [355-35 | 2019-03-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Yeah.
TEXT> They can contact. D it's d. Skinnier as the six dot as the email address. They absolutely can do that. It those. Concerns that you just listed, I have raised all of those with the Abbey group directly myself. I have experienced some of those things myself as a parent. And so they are definitely concerns that we have. And Abbey Group is aware of them. And now it's a matter of following up to ensure that they don't continue to happen. So when I changed, one of the things that they did is change their process.  At the middle school, for instance, we talked a couple months ago, I don't recall if it was an essay meeting or a Claremont meeting, and I had shared some of my experience middle school lunch service watching it. And as a result of that, they have indicated to me I haven't been back to view a new lunch service. So I am going, based on their word that they have changed their process to ensure that when kids are coming in, their correct accounts are being charged.  Because that's an issue we've heard over and over again, including staff who no longer work in the district, who have charges that were accrued this year and they haven't been here this year.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So all things that I have brought up to Abbey groups, tension, they are concerns and they the expectation is that they are being addressed by the Abbey group because

[R10304-273] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (answers Zullo's contact question [355-35 | 2019-03-25
PREV> Jason Benware: So curious about.
TEXT> Confirming that the picture on the screen matches the child standing in front of you. Yeah. Is important. Okay.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Heather sounds like she has.

[R10310-67] Jesse | Student representative, Stevens High School (chair: 'I'm sorry. Jesse. | 2019-04-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: All right.
TEXT> So  tonight for Stevens High School. Donkey ball turned out to be a huge thing. It's a cardinal. Fans overflowed from the bleachers to the floor, both standing and sitting to watch team. Pigs in a blanket, which is the Claremont Police Department take home. The championship cash race was equivalent to nearly 475 tickets being sold, and funds will go to office assignments for project Red and blue, which is a summer leadership program ran for sixth grade students during the month of July. Doctor Barry and a group of mostly underclassmen are currently on a trip to Washington, D.C. and  they'll be there through the end of this week. And there will be a Friends of Music meeting next Tuesday, April 9th, from 7 to 8 p.m. in the show's music room. And that was actually a time change from the original date of Wednesday, so that's important to note. The National Honor Society,  National Art Honor Society, and National Technical Honor Society inductions will be held on Thursday, April 11th, and that's starting at 6 p.m..  The National Honor Society will also be hosting the Red Cross Blood Drive on Wednesday, May 1st, and that'll be throughout the school day.  National Honor Society members will be helping out,  ensuring that the event runs smoothly.
NEXT> Jesse: The National Art Honor Society and the Art Club in Stevens have raised money to purchase sheets of Oak Board to go up in areas on all floors in the

[R10310-68] Jesse | Student representative, Stevens High School (chair: 'I'm sorry. Jesse. | 2019-04-03
PREV> Jesse: 11th, and that's starting at 6 p.m.. The National Honor Society will also be hosting the Red Cross Blood Drive on Wednesday, May 1st, and that'll be throughout the school day. National Honor Society members will be helping out, ensuring that the event runs smoothly.
TEXT> The National Art Honor Society and the Art Club in Stevens have raised money to purchase sheets of Oak Board to go up in areas on all floors in the school to allow for more spaces for teachers to displace  student work or within the school. And they're going to be painted on community service day. Act testing at shows will be taking place on Saturday, April 13th from 7 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and next Friday, April 12th will be an early release day. It's wide, and it's also the final day of Spring Spirit Week, which is will be celebrating semester two and spring  school activities in pursuit of its mission to promote pride, spirit, service and achievement to Stevens High School. Student Council has requested and been given permission to use the morning from 730 to 915 to host fun activities and games for the entire school community. The time left from 915 to 1030 is then designated for a pep rally.  Stevens High School will be holding its Spring Community Service Day on Friday, April 19th. Students will either do volunteer work for our community or stay at the school and work on cleaning and beautification projects,  and the rain date for that is Monday, April 19th.
NEXT> Jesse: The school district is conducting an anonymous school climate climate survey of its students, families and staff. Responses will help to improve student relationships, learning conditions, and the school's overall

[R10310-69] Jesse | Student representative, Stevens High School (chair: 'I'm sorry. Jesse. | 2019-04-03
PREV> Jesse: High School will be holding its Spring Community Service Day on Friday, April 19th. Students will either do volunteer work for our community or stay at the school and work on cleaning and beautification projects, and the rain date for that is Monday, April 19th.
TEXT> The school district is conducting an anonymous school climate climate survey  of its students, families and staff. Responses will help to improve student relationships, learning conditions, and the school's overall environment. Gear up will be having their annual summer conference in San Francisco in July, and the student has been selected to attend the student leadership portion of the conference, with their parents attending the parent leadership portion of the conference. And,  Amy Dorsett is the European. She will also be attending this conference with other select staff. For the technical center, they had a great visit recently with Senator Maggie Hassan before the center and met with students, and they spoke with the senator and shared about what they were really enjoyed in their education here at the tech. And a few explained what they were doing as well as, while they were doing so, they got to display that as well. Plans are still underway for summer camps  for students coming  in in the sixth, seventh and eighth grade for programs are to be highlighted culinary, construction, accounting and computers. Signups will open online towards the end of April. So more details are going to follow on that for the middle school. Facing our stride, a new running club will be starting this month.
NEXT> Jesse: Coach Alyssa will lead the club starting Monday, April 8th, and practices will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 230 to 4. And this club is going to be open

[R10310-70] Jesse | Student representative, Stevens High School (chair: 'I'm sorry. Jesse. | 2019-04-03
PREV> Jesse: for programs are to be highlighted culinary, construction, accounting and computers. Signups will open online towards the end of April. So more details are going to follow on that for the middle school. Facing our stride, a new running club will be starting this month.
TEXT> Coach Alyssa will lead the club starting Monday, April 8th, and practices will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 230 to 4. And this club is going to be open to  all six seventh and eighth graders who want to try something new, run and train with a group of peers and improve their fitness level. CMS is trying to implement more project based activities in its math classes. This month, they began the study of irrational numbers in the  and the Pythagorean theorem. In doing so, they found that the period of a pendulum is connected to the square root of the length of the string that it is attached to, which I thought was cool.  On April 13th at 3 p.m. and 7 p.m., and April 14th at 1 p.m., CMS drama is going to present trial of the Wicked Witch  for bluff. Bluff Elementary School has started the New Hampshire statewide.  Yeah. Assessment system testing this week.  Fifth grade is going to begin testing April 1st. So we already did that. Fourth grade will test the week of the eighth, and third grade will test the week of the 15th.  This week is science week at bluff. Students in every classroom are learning to put observation and investigative skills to use to explore various scientific concepts.
NEXT> Jesse: Students from all three elementary schools will be taking a field trip to the Monster Museum on Thursday, April 11th. The students at bluff will be celebrating another reward day

[R10310-71] Jesse | Student representative, Stevens High School (chair: 'I'm sorry. Jesse. | 2019-04-03
PREV> Jesse: Fourth grade will test the week of the eighth, and third grade will test the week of the 15th. This week is science week at bluff. Students in every classroom are learning to put observation and investigative skills to use to explore various scientific concepts.
TEXT> Students from all three elementary schools will be taking a field trip to the Monster Museum on Thursday, April 11th. The students at bluff will be celebrating another reward day on April 12th. Students have earned this reward for consistently adhering to our school wide expectations for  kindergarten. Registration for 2019 to 2020 is going to be held from 6 to 7 in the gymnasium and for Maple Avenue. The School Scholastic Book Fair will be taking place all week from April 15th through the 19th.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions or comments for Mr. Barrel? I'm not.

[R10310-76] Jesse | Student representative, Stevens High School (chair: 'I'm sorry. Jesse. | 2019-04-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: Is.
TEXT> But I do know that Kira is here to play 60. So it's an outside group that that, basically aims at getting kids active in their school community. I know recently at Stevens, gear up was was a large part of us getting a smoothie machine and getting a breakfast started up at the school as well. Prescott did some work with them  recently.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Helps students get connected with college and collegial opportunities. It it tends to target students who are perhaps first generation college students. And it just helps to make those connections

[R10310-77] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Jesse: aims at getting kids active in their school community. I know recently at Stevens, gear up was was a large part of us getting a smoothie machine and getting a breakfast started up at the school as well. Prescott did some work with them recently.
TEXT> Helps students get connected with college and collegial opportunities.  It it tends to target students who  are perhaps first generation college students.  And it just helps to make those connections for them. So it's a grant that we're involved with with the AmeriCorps program and then is  multi-tier system of supports is a multi-tiered system. In this context it is related to behavior. And so it's about,  having clear expectations for behavior and structures in place to support students to be successful with demonstrating appropriate behaviors in school. And this is one of their celebration days for that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carolyn. Carolyn.

[R10310-125] Katya | Band and chorus teacher, Stevens High School (chair: 'our band and cho | 2019-04-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. I'd like to adjust the, We're in nonpublic so long, I'd like to, have our band and chorus teacher Katya come up and present on the music trip.
TEXT> The first packet thing is put together by the tour company, so we use f tours education first. It's the same tour company that they use for the Washington, D.C. trips  and the same tour company we've used for the past two trips. We went to Italy last year, and we're going to London and Paris this year in July, so it would be next summer, July 2020. Same time frame beginning of July.  But the destinations would be Berlin, Prague, Krakow and Budapest. Same length, 9 to 10 days. Also, I have been to all four of these places, so I'd be comfortable bringing students there as well. So that's what I'm sticking with for things is places that I'm familiar with.  The packet is just all the info about the whole overview of the tour. They have a global travel protection program. So for some reason, our flight gets canceled for whether or it's not safe to go to a destination. They'll let us reschedule it later  or pick a new place to go. Students can also receive free high school credit or,  pay a small fee for college credit through Snhu, which transfers to pretty much any college throughout the country.
NEXT> Katya: And then they have a sample day by day itinerary. And that would be for next summer. And then the one sheet of paper is the thing that I give

[R10310-126] Katya | Band and chorus teacher, Stevens High School (chair: 'our band and cho | 2019-04-03
PREV> Katya: go to a destination. They'll let us reschedule it later or pick a new place to go. Students can also receive free high school credit or, pay a small fee for college credit through Snhu, which transfers to pretty much any college throughout the country.
TEXT> And then they have a sample day by day itinerary. And that would be for next summer. And then the one sheet of paper is the thing that I give to students so that they can just, because they don't like reading packets and their parents are more patient with one sheet of paper so they can just read one thing. Front and back  for that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So that.

[R10310-160] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Post.
TEXT> 29, Women's auxiliary, sons of the American Legion on Broad Street. And they  are donating to us a total of $760. And that is to support six students whose families are financially struggling and unable to pay the $120 class dues for the eighth grade trip.  So I am looking for acceptance of this donation to support six additional students to attend the eighth grade class trip.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That's a question first. Is it 720 or 760?

[R10310-192] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair: 'Any questions for Mike at this  | 2019-04-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, well, that's moving around. Let's transition to budget versus actual end of year projection.
TEXT> Once again, we sent out an expenditure report. I don't know if people have specific questions. Been working on the, the projection for about a week, and I'm still not ready. I,  I thought it was going to be at the end of the month meeting, so I didn't prepare myself properly to, to go through that process. I looked at the revenues and projected the revenues through the end of the year, which I can share with everybody. It looks like we're going to be favorable about 59,000 and printing it now. The expenditures, obviously with 1200 lines, it's taken me a bit to go through. I have some, some new staff, especially in special ed. We're going through the process of adjusting all the purchase orders to make sure we're covering the proper amounts of money, because like I said last time, what happens is we'll put a purchase order in the student to move out of district. We won't close it or we won't pay the invoices on the on the Po, and that will result in us recording encumbrance in an expenditure. And that's double recording. So that's why I've been working through to try to, to just to, to sort through all that. But but I also, you know, when you do the, when you do the year end projection, I do it several different ways.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: I do it by by function, by object and by location. And I'll send these reports out to everybody. So don't know what I'm talking about for next time. Much

[R10310-244] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: And we'll be, again, we'll be setting our goals, and we've got some other things to discuss as well. So it'll be good. It's very productive. So, I'm sorry we jumped down to that. Okay. Past the future. Agenda items.
TEXT> So future agenda items. I'm keeping a running list that I didn't bring with me, but adding to that this evening, we need to talk about general insurance assurances for fiscal year 2020 for our grants. It's a really thick packet that I will send to all of you to read ahead of time. And then it just needs the board, chairs, signature and initials. Representing the board. So this is a, document that we have to complete every year with the New Hampshire Department of Education. And it's the general assurances, requirements and definitions for participation in federal programs. We will be presenting to you a tuition agreement, with Goshen for some students who are attending. And I know that we need the public hearing for the, Rate funds. We also will have a presentation from Bluff School, fourth grade teachers for their annual trip to the White Mountains.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We're going to want to share our whatever our goals school board goals are at some point to. But that's probably a little less critical. But we'll want to be

[R10310-282] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (reports superintendent contract neg | 2019-04-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: So we didn't administer administer it last year. So that's why you wouldn't have gotten it from.
TEXT> My son. So I'm wondering if there is a way, because I'm extremely curious to know what my kids put on the survey. I'd like to know their feedback. I know, but I shouldn't a parent be able to do it? I'd rather do it as a parent than have their teacher do it, if that's you know what I mean. Like, I'm just wondering. I don't know, I just felt odd about it. Sure, the teacher's going to do it. Why can't I?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Is there a way the parents can see the student's feedback? Is it? Yeah. Okay.

[R10310-283] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: do it? I'd rather do it as a parent than have their teacher do it, if that's you know what I mean. Like, I'm just wondering. I don't know, I just felt odd about it. Sure, the teacher's going to do it. Why can't I?
TEXT> Is there a way the parents can see the student's feedback? Is it? Yeah. Okay.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. Not that I doubt. Have I completely, 100% trust my children's teachers?

[R10310-284] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (reports superintendent contract neg | 2019-04-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: Is there a way the parents can see the student's feedback? Is it? Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> Yeah. Not that I doubt. Have I completely, 100% trust my children's teachers?
NEXT> Unidentified: The student have a say.

[R10310-285] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member (Jason Benware, Heather Whitney or Rob Lov | 2019-04-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. Not that I doubt. Have I completely, 100% trust my children's teachers?
TEXT> The student have a say.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: She's in third grade. Like, okay, feel like I should be doing it with her.

[R10321-38] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Cory, acting superintendent' [41 | 2019-04-11
PREV> Cory LeClair: to make it work. And they're still posted, but they have been unfilled. We've been able to for some of the some of those positions were special education, and we've been able to do in one instance, we even did, almost like a Skype teacher.
TEXT> So we set up  video conferencing services with a teacher through a third party contractor. And so students would were still getting their instruction from a licensed teacher with a pair in the room with them.  So we've been creative and how we've solved some of those problems, but we've had unfilled positions this year. And then  what Mike has said is we've had census changes in health benefits and dental benefits. So, when you have a family plan, for instance, it's much more expensive to the district and if you have a single plan. So there's been some changes in who needed what their and we've had unfilled positions  and the rates came back slightly different than what we're budgeted on and projected. So that's the reason why there are funds that weren't  otherwise needed this year that can cover this year's lost reimbursement, but I don't want anyone to think that it doesn't have a tax impact because it will have a tax impact for future years, because we're not able to return as much to the taxpayers as we expected. Or in that scenario where we didn't spend all the money, we should have had more money to return than what was projected, and we won't have that. So I just want to make sure that no one I was certainly not trying to be misleading to anyone that was just not shown.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So we're.

[R10321-94] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Cory, acting superintendent' [41 | 2019-04-11
PREV> Michael O'Neill: got to give them same thing. Everybody else had and that's that's the problem. So it has gotten worse over the past couple of years, not only because we can better quantify it, but because certainly more people are taking advantage of the law change.
TEXT> So I think I think that's what districts across the state and the country are experiencing, too, that the federal law changed about around what kind of meal you're required, offered every child.  And so with better reporting and a federal law change, I think those are the primary issues. Nothing to do with Abby group, but those are the primary issues that are creating the situation we have now. Our old reporting system was paper and pencil sheets in Ziploc bags.  And now we have a more sophisticated point of sale system. We've all experienced flaws in the point of sale system, and issues with that, but working through those and trying to improve those processes is important and ongoing. And I think I think that it's getting better, but I think we still have some work to do  around that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So how is the debt absorbed, though? I think that was part of my question previously.

[R10321-138] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Cory, acting superintendent' [41 | 2019-04-11
PREV> Jason Benware: happier, but it's certainly going to give them a better idea as to what's going on. And that's what people want to know right now. Because as we've said before, when you don't have a story, one's going to get created. So we need one.
TEXT> I think that's important. Lunch debt  and loss of revenue  are  absolutely two separate issues. And the only thing that happens to connect them is they happen to be on the same topic. I think another misconception out there is that kids aren't eating because of this. Kids. Every child who does, you know.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Once.

[R10321-140] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Cory, acting superintendent' [41 | 2019-04-11
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Once.
TEXT> Or needs a meal, whether they have a cold lunch with them or not, has gotten a meal. So kids have absolutely eaten through this process. This is not diminish their ability to have food in any way whatsoever. So I think that was just another. Misunderstanding.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think when we have the the timeline and the explanations, we know that, in, 18, 19. The money was covered because we had a lot of vacant positions that

[R10321-161] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Cory, acting superintendent' [41 | 2019-04-11
PREV> Jason Benware: unity, two from Claremont, y'all got together and compared your two policies on certain things. And then if there was one that varied, you would just come to a an agreement on those and build some policies for the board or for the I mean.
TEXT> Potentially there are some policies in the. So the New Hampshire School Boards Association is a  phenomenal resource for any school board. But in this scenario, they have sample policies for every bona fide policy that exists. We like to be creative here in Claremont, in unity, NSC six. And sometimes we create our very own policies with our very own letters that match nothing,  outside of this, but I think that  there are some policies in their sample. Just lost a word there. They're sample policies. They're sample documents that wouldn't  apply to an Saw level because, for instance, a,  a policy related to retention for students does not apply at the  level that applies at the individual district level. The Saw doesn't have any students of their own. So I don't know if what the most efficient process would be. My guess it would actually just to be to start with a sample policies, figure out from those sample policies which one would apply to an essay you and go from there.  That would be my recommendation. But their Unity and Claremont  don't have all of the same policies either.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Could you give me an example of what an say policy over a district policy would be like?

[R10321-163] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Cory, acting superintendent' [41 | 2019-04-11
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Could you give me an example of what an say policy over a district policy would be like?
TEXT> Sure. Like the say you should have a,  a procurement  policy  or a policy related to how grant funds are managed or time and effort and things of that nature.  And each district would also have that policy, and they could be identical in all three entities.  But  they wouldn't have necessarily student specific policies. They would need to have personnel policies though, because the s a you does have personnel. So.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I'm going to.

[R10321-177] Frank Sprague | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont; Claremont School Board Chair) (chair: ' | 2019-04-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> So I, I would think in my mind. Did you come through it fairly quickly. Anything to do with students would be out. So mainly.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: The.

[R10330-47] Alicia Seminole | Fourth grade teacher, Bluff Elementary School (self-identified 'Alicia | 2019-04-17
PREV> Unidentified: So that's it? Very nice. As you can tell. We really.
TEXT> Believe in taking kids outside the classroom for learning,  hands on engagement. That's where the district is headed. And, Xena's been doing this for 20 years. Yeah. And so we already knew that. So this fits in with where the district is headed, I think.
NEXT> Unidentified: So what do you mean, from us? We just need your.

[R10330-89] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Carolyn Towle: And handed.
TEXT> Out to you as the lunch account summary as of April 10th. By school, as we've been doing every  month now. So we have a total debt  of for school lunch. Still hovering around the  $22,000 mark. 21,000 change mark.  But I think what's important to note is that 67 of those, $15,555  are has been accrued by just 67 accounts.  And I share that because it's not a it's not that there are, many. Many students with high lunch debt. It's a small population in the overall scheme of things with large debt, that is, that is contributing to the amount of debt that we have now. So we continue to work with those families, contacting them to set up opportunities for them to pay back their debt to ensure that every family is classified correctly in the system, so that if they are eligible to receive free and or reduce free or reduced lunch, that they have the opportunity to complete that paperwork and do that and get that benefit. And so we are having some luck recovering some of these funds. And as people continue to have concerns or questions about the,  the school lunch program, I just encouraged them to contact our office so that we can get them resolved  and, clear up any confusion that might be out there still.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, it was a tie. So, Carolyn, right up the line. Jason and Mike, get out of line.

[R10330-99] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [1], asks Mrs. Wo | 2019-04-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: reduced lunch, or they accrued, debt through other means. So if you're free or reduced status, what is considered free or reduced is a single reimbursable meal that day. So anything beyond one single reimbursable meal does not fall into that free or reduced category.
TEXT> When I worked at the high school, one of the big scrambles is typically, I think it was before the first graduation practice that the scramble would take place. Exactly. And it was the clearing up of all debt, and students had to  have that debt cleared up before they could participate in graduation and presumably get a diploma. So it'd be interesting to, if legal, could put that, if that indeed is leverage, if we can put that into the letter on going home. And  secondary to that is making sure we're keeping track of that money so that, that debt is following, even if they're in fifth grade now.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It does roll over to the next year.

[R10330-101] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order [1], asks Mrs. Wo | 2019-04-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: It does roll over to the next year.
TEXT> They want to make sure that. But I want to make sure we talked to legal about the leverage that we really have  around making sure that students have no debt before they can participate or in graduation or get a diploma. So where we stand legally on that. So that's a real threat. Okay, Rebecca.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And just to just to follow up on that, you know, I think the last time we talked about this briefly, there was panic in the community thinking that kids

[R10330-102] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair: 'Okay, Rebecca.' [128] then  | 2019-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: sure we talked to legal about the leverage that we really have around making sure that students have no debt before they can participate or in graduation or get a diploma. So where we stand legally on that. So that's a real threat. Okay, Rebecca.
TEXT> And just to just to follow up on that, you know, I think the last time we talked about this briefly, there was panic in the community thinking that kids who couldn't pay were going to be, you know, held responsible. And I think it just warrants a conversation of what that would actually look like for students who haven't been able to pay in regards to letters that need to go home. Also online, I saw and probably many people saw,  I want to say that it was Henniker. Maybe they had a policy around. Their school lunch program. I would need to look at that again. But what I would suggest, or if the board agrees, is that the policy committee look at that policy that was in another school district in regard to  how they handle their school lunch bills and such. So we can just make sure you guys.
NEXT> Unidentified: Are.

[R10330-121] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Anything else? Rob.' [346] then | 2019-04-17
PREV> Jason Benware: My only comment.
TEXT> Is into the student that has over  $500. If I'm doing the math correctly. The school's been in session for about eight months. If they had a bunch every single day, assuming that they went every single day, that should only total to $480. How have they accrued.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: All the cart?

[R10330-156] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Goshen tuition agreement.
TEXT> We do receive students from other districts at times.  Goshen School District happens to be a district. That is, I believe, 100% school choice.  And they do have agreements with some area districts for what that payment looks like. So it's the agreement to send and receive students the term of this, the tuition rate and such. So it's the the version you have in front of you and you had in your packet is a draft. Their board has met and has approved this agreement on their end. So it's just our opportunity to formally approve the agreement on our end to accept the tuition. And at this point in time, we have one student in the middle school and one student at the high school  from Goshen.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So my assumption is, is that this tuition rate that we're offering is the same one we offer every other school.

[R10330-158] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Jason Benware: So my assumption is, is that this tuition rate that we're offering is the same one we offer every other school.
TEXT> So the tuition rate that we offer is the same we offer to any other school.  Our tuition rate that we offer is different than the tuition rate that Goshen pays. And the family is responsible for paying the difference between the two. And so we build a family for that. They're made aware of that. They were made aware of that long before they ever decided to send their students here. The the difference isn't significant. With the rate Goshen pays and the rate Claremont charges,  it's very minuscule. And so  it's a it's a small financial responsibility on the part of the parent. But there is a slight difference between the two. And then any. You probably saw in here that costs above and beyond standard tuition for particular student are covered by.
NEXT> Unidentified: I wanted to point out.

[R10330-161] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (votes 'Yes' right after clerk calls 'Ja | 2019-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because.
TEXT> People who are listening from on the TV understand that when we take in a student from Goshen, if they have extreme special education needs or anything like that, it's spelled it in the contract that they're responsible from their own district to, to pay for those. It's not like saddling us with more special education costs. That was something I was happy to read in the contract, so I thought I'd point that out.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: They're responsible for their own transportation, unless it's a field trip or an extra extracurricular event. If they're playing baseball, we're not going to make them drive and the rest

[R10350-1] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'look to Mrs. LeClaire' [0], 'tel | 2019-05-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: This time, I'd like to open the a public hearing for RSA 198 colon 28 be an anticipated revenue, and I would look to Mrs. LeClaire to give us an overview of the unanticipated revenue.
TEXT> Entering category two. We received $133.38. And this is largely used to, support technology across the district. And so we received $60,720.67 for bluff, $65,174.46 for Maple, $9,899.10 for students high school, and $56.15 for  district wide. And so this is something that we,  have used to purchase teacher laptops and Chromebooks at Bluff and Maple, a few desktops for the Mac Lab at us, and are planning to upgrade the audiovisual and the multi-purpose room at bluff  and deploy a badly needed server upgrade before,  in the district wide category. So these are funds, and I'll look to Josh Malloy, our director of technology, to confirm that we received these funds through a ancillary taxation process. I would guess I would call it. And so they're funds that we don't necessarily I think we do apply for and get and use for technology purposes and help offset some of the costs.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: These are federal funds, correct?

[R10350-66] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'look to Mrs. LeClaire' [0], 'tel | 2019-05-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And.
TEXT> We have a great student representatives report this evening, so I'm going to skip the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. I have a motion for the agenda.

[R10350-104] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens hearings and meeting, runs agenda  | 2019-05-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Aye.
TEXT> Opposed? Okay. Thank you for everyone's diligence. So it's the time we've all been anticipating the student representative report.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Yeah. Just bear with me, because, as you've heard. Y'all. It is quite. Extensive for Stephens High School. They held their spring community service day on Friday, April

[R10350-107] Unidentified | Student representative (Stevens High School; name not stated; refers t | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: report on their endeavors to the school board at the meeting on May 15th. I believe that she told me, the Stevens High School Musical theater and dancing choreography classes will be putting on their performance of The Lion King Junior on the following dates.
TEXT> So we have Thursday, May 16th, Friday, May 17th and Saturday, May 18th  at 7 p.m. and a Sunday showing May 19th at 2 p.m. currently listed. Tickets will be on sale at the door, and there will be $10 for adults and $5 for children, with those under five not having to pay for admission, we're not going to charge them. S has received word that they have been chosen by the Fox News Network to host both the Sunday morning Fox News program from the car gymnasium, as well as a Democratic town hall  at night on May 19th. So we're very excited for this opportunity to showcase our high school on a national, on the national stage. And this will set the stage for what will most likely be a very lively political season leading up to the presidential election next year. And more details to follow on. This will become available as they are made available. The Stevens High School Summer concert, as I said, will be Thursday, May 23rd at 7 p.m. admission to this is free. It's right in the auditorium. Two high  school students are now running for national and state positions within HCA, which is the High School Democrats Association.
NEXT> Unidentified: Prescott Herzog, my colleague, is one of them, and he's running for national programs director. And Tyler Sullivan is running for New Hampshire High School Democrats vice chair. As a

[R10350-108] Unidentified | Student representative (Stevens High School; name not stated; refers t | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: School Summer concert, as I said, will be Thursday, May 23rd at 7 p.m. admission to this is free. It's right in the auditorium. Two high school students are now running for national and state positions within HCA, which is the High School Democrats Association.
TEXT> Prescott Herzog, my colleague, is one of them, and he's running for national programs director. And Tyler Sullivan is running for New Hampshire High School Democrats vice chair. As a group, the Young Dems will travel back to the New England Summit held yearly in Massachusetts. The date for this year is set to May 18th and will be held at Lexington Community College in Lexington, Massachusetts. We'd also like to congratulate Julia Blair for being nominated by guidance and administration for the Women Who Make a Difference award. While Julia was not the finalist, she was chosen to represent Stevens as the female who has made a significant and positive impact on the school and community through her selfless good deeds and dedication at Stevens at Claremont Middle School. Sorry. Spring is in the air and so are transitions. The school counselors and administration are planning to visit alimentary schools in May to share information about CMS. The students in fifth grade will get to visit CMS  and there will be a parent night as well. Specific dates will be announced very soon. Eighth graders have already selected classes and met with their high school counselors, and will visit Stevens to take a tour next month.
NEXT> Unidentified: CMS will offer a summer school opportunity for eighth graders in July. Letters with more information about this program will be sent out soon. The program will be funded by

[R10350-109] Unidentified | Student representative (Stevens High School; name not stated; refers t | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: grade will get to visit CMS and there will be a parent night as well. Specific dates will be announced very soon. Eighth graders have already selected classes and met with their high school counselors, and will visit Stevens to take a tour next month.
TEXT> CMS will offer a summer school opportunity for eighth graders in July. Letters with more information about this program will be sent out soon. The program will  be funded by Year up. It's time to think about summer camp. Copper Canyon Camp has transitioned to an online registration process this year. They report that this will help them be much. It'll be easier for campers and families in the future. Students can pick up an information sheet and how to do as to how to do this from Miss  Foley or Miss Taylor. The Rogue Robots of Four H was one of 32 teams that competed on Friday.  The team got first in challenge course and first overall. They are going to the national competition in Maryland June 1st. Finding our stride running club, led by Miss Taylor, will be participating in the Stepping Up to End Violence five K walk that starts at CMS this Saturday, May 4th, and we'd like to offer congratulations to the following students who are selected as students of the month for March. Grade six Jackson Rapp. Grade seven Maya Rice. Grade eight Haley Bellaire unified Art six Sidney  Almond, unified art seven Michelle Farhan and Unified Arts eight Stella Virtue CMS PTO will hold their final meeting of the year on Tuesday, May 7th in the school.
NEXT> Unidentified: Nurse will be presenting at that meeting. Builders club will be sponsoring the change for poverty Penny War the week after April break, and they also did the week before

[R10350-111] Unidentified | Student representative (Stevens High School; name not stated; refers t | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: to 7:00 pm. The second and third grade concert will be on Wednesday, May 22nd from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. and finally, the Disney Band and Chorus concert will be on Wednesday, May 29th from 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. for Maple Avenue School.
TEXT> The Maple Avenue Title one hosted a very successful Math Family night. The nights theme was Building Maple Mathematicians, and approximately 160 guests attended with nearly the entire Maple staff. The staff and students would like to give a huge shout out to the Tech Center team and the robotics group for their participation. Students were eager to participate in the activities that they shared. The Abbey Group prepared a delicious spaghetti dinner with salad, breadsticks and something to drink, and this was an example of the community that we are lucky to be a part of, and their willingness to support Maple Avenue School. Another example of this was the Stephen High School's recent Community Service Day, where shows students planned and provided two very enriching activities for Maple Avenue kiddos. A group of seven students moved about the school, reading to small groups of students in kindergarten to second grade. A large group of math students put on a math fair in the gym for all grade levels to participate in. Both groups of students achieved rock star status with the students and  served as an amazing role models. So  it's a they'd like to offer a thank you to Stephen's teachers who helped to make those activities possible.
NEXT> Unidentified: And the last one goes for all three schools. So Maple Ave and Bluff their learning about outdoor education and plans to begin providing students with outdoor learning experiences weekly,

[R10350-112] Unidentified | Student representative (Stevens High School; name not stated; refers t | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: for all grade levels to participate in. Both groups of students achieved rock star status with the students and served as an amazing role models. So it's a they'd like to offer a thank you to Stephen's teachers who helped to make those activities possible.
TEXT> And the last one goes for all three schools. So Maple Ave and Bluff their learning about outdoor education and plans to begin providing students with outdoor learning experiences weekly, which will begin in the upcoming fall. For their first training, teachers in grades kindergarten through two will receive professional development in the program Growing Up Wild, and the 3 to 5 staff will receive the same in the program Project Wild. The training is provided by the New Hampshire Fish and Game Department, and they'll continue to partner with the staff at the Sullivan County Conservation District. Lisa Holtz in Grade three in grade three, sorry has been piloting outdoor education with her class this year. And they'd like for to be considered contacting I believe Miss Bonnell to see Lisa and her class in action as they observe, question, reflect, think critically, and problem solve, all while spending time in the great outdoors at Moody Park. Each Wednesday afternoon. Includes 3 or 4. Thank you. It was one of the last ones, so I had to go all out.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Did a great job.

[R10350-206] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'look to Mrs. LeClaire' [0], 'tel | 2019-05-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I don't believe we've ever seen that as a not in my tenure on the board in five years. We've never seen that.
TEXT> In terms of maximum. No, we do have an internal process for any of these claims. And,  it's handled by our benefits person. And so I do see any of the claims that come through, in the grand scope of things, knowing that we have, you know, well over 400 employees and about 2000 students across the district, we I'd say we have relatively few issues over the course of a calendar year. I think maybe I've seen. Half a dozen of them. Maybe.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: But what I'm saying is tremendous can work for us to and provide us past history in graph form also.

[R10350-244] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: program director for our system of care. Fast forward grant, and, I think it was roughly last year around this time when we did an update. So wanted to provide an update for you again this year. It was. It was about a year ago.
TEXT> That I gave an update. And just so that, you know, I'm approaching, two years of being in this position and we have about 17 months left of the grant. So I did want to update you with where we're at, the work that's been taking place within the district, and then also answer any questions that you might have about the work that we're doing. So for those of you that didn't hear about it last year, the System of Care  grant was a $12 million grant funneled down through SAMHSa through down to the New Hampshire Department of Ed, through the Bureau of Student Wellness. What they did with that $12 million is dispersed it out to seven different school districts within New Hampshire to essentially start creating what's called a system of care network within those areas, as well as pilot a program called Fast Forward. I'll talk more about Fast Forward at the end, because that is kind of its own subset. So with these seven districts, the great thing about this too, is the Doe provides some oversight and provides us opportunities to get together  as a cohort on a monthly basis. So the seven different districts are getting together, talking about the work they're doing, talking about the barriers that they've come across, and really trying to work through some of the processes and programs.
NEXT> Trinity Early: That's happening. So the system of care really, the work that's being done is taking a look at the activities and services that are taking place. I'll kind of hit

[R10350-247] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: that are experiencing Trump trauma at home, trauma within the community, and what that means for their learning. We just recently had a conversations on culture and diversity. So again, I mentioned kind of, you know, how are we adjusting to an ever changing population?
TEXT> How are we valuing their cultures, their values, and their belief systems in the work that we're doing? And also taking a look at mindfulness practices, yoga practices, things like that,  to, take a look at self-care for not only teachers, students, families. What does that mean, building that in just as important as physical health? It does help your emotional well-being and mental health. One of the biggest things that we've been doing over the course of the past two years is we piloted screening all incoming students with the ask SC, and what that is, is it's a social emotional screener. Are the students coming in, socially and emotionally able to learn and to function throughout the day? So before we were doing a lot of  the screening, as far as you know, do the students identify their name? Can they, do the colors developmentally charting where that is? This piece specifically looks at their social emotional health and well-being. So first year that we did that. We tried it in one elementary school.  We're now doing it in all three so that we kind of, we can essentially kind of throw up a red flag if we're seeing a student, rank a really high score there just so that we can kind of, pay a little more attention to that student and start building in skills in maybe adapt learning and teaching a little bit, just knowing kind of  where the kiddos coming from.
NEXT> Trinity Early: The Youth Risk Behavior Survey is another piece that we're working on. Typically this is done at the high school level. We're now getting ready to do it at the

[R10350-250] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: getting students to the appointments themselves, or just a hesitation about venturing down that road. And by bringing that to the schools. Up until now, it just it started last March. We've had over 30 students accessing one on one counseling, within the school setting.
TEXT> So  typically they're they'll be pulled from the classroom, get to see the same clinician every week and start working through that. Our hope. So right now, the grant has been paying for that model that we're working towards for next school year is  being able to build private insurance and Medicaid, whatever the family has,  so that that money is not coming out of the grant. So essentially, we've been working out the kinks as far as contracting what that looks like, what that means for the school building, and is it being  heavily utilized right now? They're in each elementary school one day a week. We know that we could probably fill three days a week with in each elementary school. The goal next year is to have somebody five days a week across the three elementary schools. So. The Adverse Childhood Experience Response Team is something that's newly, being pulled together. What that is, is essentially a team  made up of  the  Claremont Police Department, Turning Points Network, TLC Family Resource Center, the schools and the Greater Sullivan County Public Health Network, creating a system in which we respond immediately to events that take place in the presence of children.
NEXT> Trinity Early: So we have children and students that are coming to school, having witnessed Swat raids within their homes, having witnessed overdoses, having a grandparent die, that was is living with

[R10350-251] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: essentially a team made up of the Claremont Police Department, Turning Points Network, TLC Family Resource Center, the schools and the Greater Sullivan County Public Health Network, creating a system in which we respond immediately to events that take place in the presence of children.
TEXT> So we have children and students that are coming to school, having witnessed Swat raids within their homes, having witnessed overdoses,  having a grandparent die, that was is living with them. All of those are traumatic. Those affect how they can learn. In this team essentially will be deployed to reach out to the family to hopefully connect them with services, sooner rather than later. And, you know, us going out to the family in a way, that supportive and saying, you know, what can we do? How can we help? The other piece of that too, is getting  is having that knowledge so that we're treating a child or a student with care if they're coming in back to school after having lost a parent, after having lost a grandparent or, watching something traumatic happen. So what's that look like for their next day? And just, you know, the next few days? So that's just getting off the ground. Up and running. But we've had great, great response from the folks in town and cross cross agency partnerships to make this happen. So in the very early stages, but hopeful about what that means.
NEXT> Trinity Early: Always working on community outreach and promotion of resources. So anything in regard to mental health, well-being, health, wellness, all of that. Anytime that we can share the word about

[R10350-253] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: start and use of any of those drugs? And the community film series, we're always, typically showing on a kind of rotation, depending on availability, different screenings in regard to, screen time and screen use in regard to trauma, in regard to the hungry heart.
TEXT> I believe is the opioid one. So drug use as well. Anything to bring out awareness to the community. We've been doing those lots of partnerships are being built. This is not an all inclusive list, but we have quite a few partners locally around the state that we're working with. That's what, a lot of my time is spent doing is finding out what are all of these people doing? How can this better enhance what's going on in Claremont? How can we collaborate  and what can we, be basically enhancing? And how can we also, work to kind of knock down silos that people have tended to be working in and work to better work better together? The other piece that I mentioned about the system of care work is the Fast Forward program. So the Fast Forward program is intended to bring families together with supportive teams to plan and deliver supports and services that build on family identified strengths, needs. And the goal is to keep families and students here within their community to have them be productive and safe within that environment. So currently I'm going to jump through this.
NEXT> Trinity Early: We have, two wrap coordinators, Caitlin and Kelly. They are specifically assigned to families within our school district right now. Or up until this point, we've had 49 referrals so

[R10350-257] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: I think.
TEXT> It's pretty much it was a quick rundown, but, a lot of things going on. The one thing I didn't mention, we did just complete the school climate survey, which I know you guys had contributed questions and things to. Just heard back that we should hear back in about three weeks on the results of all of those as well, to see, you know, the staff thoughts, student thoughts and parent thoughts as well. So that's also part of the work that we do.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to say, first of all, I'm stoked to hear about Miss Kendra coming to Claremont, because I feel like we've been a little bit behind in that.

[R10350-268] Unidentified | Unidentified - short-fragment cluster (pledge, ayes, crosstalk, clippe | 2019-05-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: up. The start of the May 15th meeting will be the special procedural defect meeting. And then there will be a regular board meeting immediately following that. And I know right now we I believe Jesse had a report from was it youth in government.
TEXT> And the student. Council.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And student council. We'll return with the Cat program discussion.

[R10350-269] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'look to Mrs. LeClaire' [0], 'tel | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: And the student. Council.
TEXT> And student council. We'll return with the Cat program discussion.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R10350-311] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Heather' [310]; chair: 'Hea | 2019-05-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: I have to say, it was kind of a rough crowd to for some of these folks, it was there are people asking some pretty, pretty tough questions and people getting off task and off topic. So but has there anything to add. To it?
TEXT> They also pointed out that how disruptive breaking up of source are. Yes. And the negative financial impact to  the towns that  that has and I think you're absolutely right. One of the things that they didn't focus on, which I think may have helped get certain people thinking a different way, is that there's a negative financial impact to the tax burden that each town has, and that they're not. Educating your students in a certain way has a negative financial impact, because people look towards the tax rate as being a negative financial  impact on a community, on individuals. And if you can kind of flip that narrative instead of talking always about fairness, because that doesn't always hit everybody the same way that the term fairness. For me, that was a takeaway because the crowd kept bringing that up a lot.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One individual.

[R10358-25] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: But this is an opportunity for us to do some really focused and intentional work in the community to prevent childhood lead poisoning, and also to share how much we've done with these other communities that are part of this pilot program. So did you.
TEXT> Want to? Yeah. The one of the main things is we're really out in front of many other communities. So they're part of our role in Claremont is to be,  sort of trailblazers for others and to help them, implement some of the things that we have done. For example,  at the back, the school festival. There was a tent set up last fall or late summer and  testing very young children for, for lead,  lead poisoning. Developmentally, those first few years.  Brain development is,  when lead does the most harm. And we have a very old housing stock here in Claremont, and.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: The state average is 65% pre 1978. And we're in the 80s right.

[R10358-27] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: The state average is 65% pre 1978. And we're in the 80s right.
TEXT> And it wasn't banned in the United States until 1978 which is way behind one. Other people did. But that that's being what it is here. We have lead. And so I think one of the things from my perspective, having been a former educator is that,   knowing that that's a possibility when we're looking at, students who who present this ad or present with other behavioral problems. Having that in the,  repertoire to look at lead potential, lead  exposure answers a lot of questions, saying, well, we where we might have treated with Ritalin before thinking it was ad  it very well could be lead poisoning. So it's it's a lot of data to have. It's very beneficial as far as meeting the needs of kids. So it's good stuff that we're doing it. And we're we're right out there on the front.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Yeah. We have a lot to be proud of. And we've been recognized regionally and by the state as being a leader in addressing this issue. So it's a perfect

[R10358-28] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: ad it very well could be lead poisoning. So it's it's a lot of data to have. It's very beneficial as far as meeting the needs of kids. So it's good stuff that we're doing it. And we're we're right out there on the front.
TEXT> Yeah. We have a lot to be proud of. And we've been recognized regionally and by the state as being a leader in addressing this issue. So it's a perfect segue. Chair Sprague, to  we do have a free training  opportunity. On Thursday, May 16th. There's an afternoon session and an evening session.  Each session comes with a free meal. And basically, this educational program will provide an overview of key points in the recently released center for Disease Control paper, Educational Interventions for Children Affected by Lead, the office for Special Education, Topical Issues, Brief intervention, ideas for lead exposure, and the Cincinnati Cincinnati led study conducted by Cincinnati Children's Hospital Hospital, the longest running longitudinal research project on children exposed to lead. So I just got this later, this  late this afternoon. I'll send it. I think I've already sent it.  Soft copy to both,  miss LeClaire and  our city, our city clerk. And then we'll disseminate it. So it's in Keene. It's not here, it's in Keene. But it's May 16th.  And it's free. And if if you are in the health profession, you can get nurse and educator professional development hours. So if you have people within the school district that needs to use, they can.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Everybody needs CEUs if you're certified, right. So.

[R10358-37] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: it's important that we have a a good overview of what we're dealing with, both in the school district and the community at large. If you talk by the microphone because it's being taped. You can take that out of the stand to the mic.
TEXT> Oh, that might be easier. Okay. It's much pressure. Hi, everyone. Thank you for having me. My name is Caitlin Bartley. I am the resource worker  for DC f at the Claremont District Office.  I've worked for decaf for a little more than eight years now, which is a lifetime in our profession. But, for about six years I did assessments, which is the investigations, the initial phase,  a little more than two years, I've been working as the resource worker, which means my role is to recruit, recruit and retain foster homes. As you can imagine, we're in a pretty severe  foster care crisis right now  with the amount of children being displaced  from their homes. When I say the Claremont District office, I'll try to talk really fast. There's just so much information to slow myself down. But the Claremont District office actually covers about 16 towns. It's all of Sullivan County and then lower Grafton County.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: We have 12 district district offices throughout the state. So when we talk about Claremont, for the numbers, you'll see if you can read that. But numbers wise it counts

[R10358-39] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: heartbreaking. We need specialized homes. I mean, we we need any foster home, but we really need homes that are trauma informed and homes that are able to take on these these kids that are have just had so much trauma and so much neglect.
TEXT> That they're really they're just so heightened and such, such a state that they, they can't even like come, come down to like, baseball to be able to go to a regular school,  to even get back into their communities. And we're doing them in injustice. Because if you look at when we're having to place them that far away. They're that much farther away from their parents, their schools, their teachers, their friends, their community. It's like, well, they can't go to their dance on Saturday. They can't go back to basketball practice. They can't have that sleepover this weekend. Now they're going to a new home where there might be other children.  We might have had to get a waiver just to add one more in, because we're kind of scrambling on a Friday night,  split up from their siblings because  often there's large sibling groups and a lot of new families can't accommodate. That many kids. So we have a really, a really big job ahead of us.  Yeah. So these,  and maybe, maybe we can email that, email these to you after. So, yeah, it might be a little bit easier to see, but,  if you want to actually go to the next one.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: It's already been emailed.

[R10358-41] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: It's already been emailed.
TEXT> These are a little bit more cut and dry, I think. So these talk about the,  for the whole year, for the whole 2018, the amount of children in care.  We had 105 children,  from our office that were in placement. And then this breaks it down by age level. So 0 to 2. There are 25 children. Then 23, 3 to 5 year olds, 16. 6 to 8 year olds,  15, 8 to 11 year olds, 11, 12 to 14 and then 15, 15 and older.  Just kind of looking what the need is. It's really spread out. It's not it's you can't really identify whether it's infant, toddler, school aged, or teenager. And then if you wouldn't mind going down and then this is current. Know this, this one up here, this is currently, right now what our numbers look like, total children that we have in care for this year, we have  60.  13 of them are with relatives. So sometimes when children come into care, we can, license relatives if they do pass a criminal background check, if the home checks out and everything sort of falls into place and they're appropriate and able to work with us.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: That doesn't always happen culturally. It's just sometimes we're not able to identify a relative, but we try really hard to because we know that it's best for children to

[R10358-45] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: be part of every disclosure. I people see this as like a red flag and like I don't think I can deal with that, but it's really it's really been hard for him to get anybody to want to foster him or even adopt him.
TEXT> So he stays in a group homes. You know what I mean? So if you could think of anybody who's really good with adolescence, you know, and those tough kids who just, you know, they push back, they're kind of naughty. But, you know, everybody knows somebody like that. Harmony. She's our lesson worker. She just loves those, like, punky teenagers who kind of give you a hard time. You know what I mean? I don't  know, I don't speak that language, but she does.  If you know anybody like that who just, you know, connects with kids on that level who might be a good a good match. Oh, yeah. We can go down. Sorry.  I yeah. So this is my breakup of foster homes right now, and I can tell you we have 29 homes. So there's actually 12 of them that are  Icpc only. And what that means quickly is if there's a child taken into foster care, say, in Vermont, and there's a grandmother who lives in New Hampshire, and they say, no, no, I don't want I don't want that child in foster care. That's my granddaughter. I want her to come be with me.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: Vermont will allow that as long as they get licensed. And we have to do a home study and everything here. So they're technically licensed on paper, but they're not

[R10358-46] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: a child taken into foster care, say, in Vermont, and there's a grandmother who lives in New Hampshire, and they say, no, no, I don't want I don't want that child in foster care. That's my granddaughter. I want her to come be with me.
TEXT> Vermont will allow that as long as they get licensed. And we have to do a home study and everything here. So they're technically licensed on paper, but they're not foster parents. Like they're not taking another foster kids. Does that make sense? So they pool saying that we have open beds, but we don't technically, because they have their grandchildren. They're not actually willing to take in kids, but it'll show you the breakdown, which makes it really hard to spread out as everyone is, you know, one in Kane and 1 or 2 in Charlestown, six in Claremont. Several of those in Claremont have like six, eight kids now that they were opted and they can't take it anymore, they're still licensed cause they're going through the adoption process. But we've had some really, really great families from here.  One in Cornish, two in field, one in Grafton, one in Hanover,  three in Lebanon, one in Lyme, three in Newport, two in Springfield, one in centipede, two in unity, three in West Love. So it's not it's really not a lot. Really need to beef up those numbers.  This is what I was just mentioning, how it's very traumatic and detrimental when  kids have to  move that far away.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: As well as a financial burden. My school board folks know if you've got to transport them, if they're close enough, that's, you know, an extra cost. And then, you

[R10358-50] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: idea. No idea that this happened in my community. I had no idea how prevalent it was. I didn't know what the need was. So to my. Why I'm here. Really, it's my job. But I do feel like it's all of our jobs, right?
TEXT> To me, when I see a kid, when we get an assessment on a kid, on a family, I always people think of. I like people in my work. They've figured it out by now. But I always say, like, there are babies and I say babies because when kids are traumatized and are victimized and they their brain sort of freezes, like at that spot developmentally. And so I say, they're all our babies. They're all,  you know, they're my babies. They're my babies. They all need homes. They need certain things. But, we I can't do it myself. And so I say, like, what can you do? Right? Because it's passionate as I am about this, I know that I don't have enough bedrooms in my house. I know that I have two kids in daycare as it is, and I work this crazy job, this crazy hours. So right now I can't actually be a foster parent. I'm also looking to work here, but, so that I can't do there's a lot of things that I can do  wherever I have a stack of fliers in my bag that wherever I go, if I go to the doctor's office, I  hang one up.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: I literally pull over on the side of the road. And if I drive by a gas station and there's a bulletin board there, I, I share on social media,

[R10358-53] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: that every single day, but it's like just a somebody like it's it's somebody for someone to have. And so that you can be that people can be that you can. If you have a relationship with a kiddo, you can be that does it.
TEXT> You do have to have a background check. And it does become legal. We have you through the court system saying like, you are going to be there for this kid, not necessarily financially, but be there for them as a support as a person.  That's an option. The in-law apartment, for the the  girl is talking about. That's a huge need. We really need to figure something out for her. The two boys I was talking about, they really need a chance to  get out of there. You know, even just for even to be a respite home. So I'm going to take them for the weekend and just show everybody that they can be okay and be little boys and go and play soccer and not have to be, in placement for their whole lives until they age out of the community. And then,  you know, or I mean, age out of the system.  Then I put you talk to your civic groups, churches, community members about your need for foster homes. I'm so grateful that I'm here. But if you if you have other groups, I'm willing to come whenever if you know your church members, if you have, I don't I don't know anything.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: And then I brought fliers and I brought, like, little, like, tchotchkes. There's, like, first aid kits and little flashlights and stuff. I I'll leave all that here. You can

[R10358-54] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: civic groups, churches, community members about your need for foster homes. I'm so grateful that I'm here. But if you if you have other groups, I'm willing to come whenever if you know your church members, if you have, I don't I don't know anything.
TEXT> And then  I brought fliers and I brought, like, little, like, tchotchkes. There's, like, first aid kits and little flashlights and stuff. I I'll  leave all that here. You can take on my brought fliers. You can take them if you have them at your office or at your work and just hang them up for me, even that is something. Fundraisers. If you know a business or like a civic group that does fundraisers, we have a foster care closet downstairs. Unfortunately, a lot of people will come and give us like, they're old, like, stained like ratty clothes. I don't like that. So what I do is  sometimes we will get gift cards around Christmas time. And if we have any left over, I'll go like during the sales. And I like to get like packages of underpants and jammies. And we have bags that get donated like duffel bags so that when kids are removed, because a lot of times, especially with meth and drugs and lots of other reasons, but a lot of times they come with literally nothing. I've had to take kids naked out of homes and bring them to the hospital to get decontaminated from meth as well as myself, and bring them to foster parents door in only a diaper.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: Which is awful. No blankie, no teddy bear, like no nothing. So my hangup and I don't know why it's my hangup, but packs of underpants, clean socks, nice comfy

[R10358-55] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: but a lot of times they come with literally nothing. I've had to take kids naked out of homes and bring them to the hospital to get decontaminated from meth as well as myself, and bring them to foster parents door in only a diaper.
TEXT> Which is awful. No blankie, no teddy bear, like no nothing.  So my hangup and I don't know why it's my hangup, but packs of underpants, clean socks,  nice comfy pajamas. We have this amazing group that all these ladies, they just. They knit these blankets, and they. So them. And they deliver me like, bags of, like, brand new blankets, like, comfy, cozy. And they have, like, a little message. So every kid will give them a blanket,  a bunch of kids. I can't remember what organization did, and I'm sorry, but they, like, designed these duffel bags, so we'll pack up a bag for kiddos. But we're running low. But we always need those things.  Yeah. So. Yeah. So fundraisers like that, I mean, we can't accept money, obviously, and I wouldn't ask that of anybody, but even just a pajama drive or, you know, something would be great. But really, just think about it. And when you think about it, if you talk about it, I mean, I've found foster parents dropping off my son for  preschool. I literally was just talking, and I was like, oh, yeah, you oh, you want more kids? How about foster kids? You know? And then she was like, I, I can't be, but my, my cousin's always wanted to be a foster parent.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: Can I give her my number? Yeah, absolutely. Just anyway, I talk about all the time, I mentioned bring cards in. Of course I forgot the most important thing, but

[R10358-66] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: We don't want her street where the DMV used to be on the the fourth floor.
TEXT> So does anybody else have a question I had one so. If there grandma children needing foster care they may get foster care within this community.  But if they're not and they have to be sent to another community.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: I have one bed in Claremont for a toddler or an infant, three and under. That's what I have available for Claremont.

[R10358-68] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: I have one bed in Claremont for a toddler or an infant, three and under. That's what I have available for Claremont.
TEXT> So I'm talking about school age children. So if they can't  be fostered here in their own community, then they have to be sent out to another community. Is the school district then on the hook to pay  for that service?
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: Yes, ma'am.

[R10358-73] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So then.
TEXT> Will you get joined to the court hearings? And you're part of the decision making as far as I and everything that goes along with that for the length of that case. So if a child leaves here and goes to placement or to another school, then you're notified of,  change, like because they, they went to foster care in Newport, you would decide whether they get transported back here every day or whether they transferred to Newport. That would be your decision with our way. And we might say it might be best for them to come back.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So if there's school aged children, there's beyond the human impact. There's the economic impact of the school district.

[R10358-74] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: they went to foster care in Newport, you would decide whether they get transported back here every day or whether they transferred to Newport. That would be your decision with our way. And we might say it might be best for them to come back.
TEXT> So if there's school aged children, there's beyond the human impact. There's the economic impact of the school district.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: Yeah, absolutely.

[R10358-85] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: So my question is, even if people can be qualified for respite, so that say somebody does work full time, but they can give up their weekends so that they can provide respite for a full time. That helps the burden. Quite a bit.
TEXT> Yes, ma'am. You know, it might make the difference and maintain that placement, even respite for some of our grandparents because, you know, being a grandparent and trying to now raised much younger children, especially children with trauma and with higher needs, it's very stressful. There's a huge need for even just respite providers, across the board. We need it all now.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Do you set up the respite through directly from you, or are there other organizations under you that do the home inspections and things like that?

[R10358-116] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Wow.
TEXT> I don't have the number. I'm sorry,  I don't have the numbers, but that's pretty telling to me. And I have gotten new homes over the years. You know, it's one every couple of months or so, but they're usually filled quickly. Yeah. Very quickly. Which is hard. It's hard to get that backlog and, and even move kids closer, which would be nice. But we can't do that either.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you. Well, thank you so much. Thank you, thank you.

[R10358-134] Unidentified | Unidentified - syringe service program (Project 439) representative; n | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Zone when within 1000ft of a school originally had taken place at the soup kitchen. Yep. So can you just kind of take us back real quickly from the starting point?
TEXT> Yeah. So yep. So the project was started by Dartmouth Medical School students from Geisel in  July of 2017, the day after the law for this exchange program had passed. And they were in operation for,  less than ten hours in total time, until  the end of September, early October. But in total less than ten hours,  at the Claremont soup kitchen. And we were notified that they were in within 1000ft of a school drug free school zone. And at that time, they ceased operations at Claremont Soup Kitchen. And, kind of engaged the work of both Laura and myself in as well as Peter Wright, who at the time is the president of Valley Regional, to do some work with the New Hampshire Hospital Association  on some amendments to  the law  that allowed for syringe service programs to operate in hospitals that were in drug free school zones. So for those of you guys who don't know, Valley Regional sits in a drug free school zone. And so Valley couldn't even open even if they wanted to, to own their own syringe exchange program, they weren't able to do so due to the fact that they were in a drug free school zone. And that legislature was passed, last March, early April of last year.
NEXT> Unidentified: And then kind of took to the ground of working in the community and kind of working with the school board at that point. And our first meeting with the

[R10358-135] Unidentified | Unidentified - syringe service program (Project 439) representative; n | 2019-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: even open even if they wanted to, to own their own syringe exchange program, they weren't able to do so due to the fact that they were in a drug free school zone. And that legislature was passed, last March, early April of last year.
TEXT> And then kind of took to the ground of working in the community and kind of working with the school board at that point. And our first meeting with the school board was in August  of this past year. So 2018, and then a second meeting in September of 2018. Which of which it was passed at that point that we could operate a syringe exchange program in a drug free school zone as long as it was at the hospital. From that point, we established a community advisory board, which has a number of community entities that sit down on that. What members from the school board, folks from Valley Regional, Mark Chase, the police chief, we've got a couple of other folks as well, as well as folks with lived experience who provide really great insight to that, to the work that they're doing. And finally kind of got the, the okay  verbally at the end for both Valley and Dartmouth Medical School that this was kind of ready to go  in early May under Laura Sagen. So Laura has kind of taken the program underneath her shop and the students operate as volunteers.  Of age two are see but still kind of maintaining project for 39. So they're no longer a separate entity or through Geisel. They're volunteers of HRC.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm just footnote on that, that there were there were some concerns. There was a lively discussion on the board at the time. There were some, definitely some different points

[R10358-137] Unidentified | Unidentified - syringe service program (Project 439) representative; n | 2019-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: believe we agreed that we would see how it went and then possibly in the future, look at expanding the hours more into the day. If that's something we would have to consider at some future point. So. But that's on the table. I believe.
TEXT> We've made the commitment. Both Laura and myself, as well as the students,  have made the commitment to make ourselves regular at these meetings. When you guys request us to be there or annually. And so in just in transparency, you know, those were always willing to kind of come and have these discussions.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I appreciate that.

[R10358-259] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Charlene Lovett: one of their six recommendations was the council. When they talk about the council, they're talking about the advisory council received significant feedback at every listening session about persistent discrimination and equity and inequities in schools, and the inadequacy of available resolution and redress processes.
TEXT> They  outlined that New Hampshire is one of the only states in the northeast without any state. Statutory anti-discrimination protection for students. Accordingly, the Council recommends that New Hampshire enact a state statute that prohibits discrimination against students in public schools  based on race, color, religion, national origin, mental or physical disability, gender identity, or sexual orientation. And then they highlighted. In July of 2018, the legislature amended RSA 35 for 354 A to expressly prohibit discrimination against based on gender identity.  So that or that law has already passed, and what they have advised is that all governing bodies throughout the state, because that law has already been changed of July of 2018, that we review all of our statute, ordinances, regulations and policies that reference identity based classes so that they can be amended to include gender identity. And I think council key or mentioned this in our January meeting.  I don't know what's been done since January. On the school board side,  if there has been a review of your policies and if there is that,  clause of different classes not to discriminate against. You may want to check to make sure it's updated to reflect the 2018 law.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: The policy committee.

[R10358-298] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> And so if they are able to move forward with that project, if it's approved, they have  their intending to work with students here at the tech center and have that solar field be a learning, extended learning opportunities. So, the students who  are interested in that field could see it in action. And so we'll see how that develops. And then we're on to next steps and we're 15 minutes ahead of schedule.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I have something.

[R10358-379] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: It is.
TEXT> So the city's if I didn't make it clear, I'm sorry. The city's thrive information is going currently to all of the people who were at the roundtable discussion. So there were people from the school administration. The only person from the school board was at the table was chair Sprague. And then council member,  school member Lovett. But, so they are getting  the problem is, unless we have a cohesive task force to really deal with the issue, it's going to we're going to we're not going to get much done, you know, intentionally done. So we need feedback from the administration on the school side. What what are the issues in the school with the students with regard to suicide or thoughts of suicide and depression and all that does this? Does the  governing body on the school district  know what where they're at? Do we know as a community where we're at?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'd like them to tell me what their top two greatest concerns are. Yeah. And then kind of work from there. Just let them tell us what they need the

[R10358-381] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'd like them to tell me what their top two greatest concerns are. Yeah. And then kind of work from there. Just let them tell us what they need the focus to be.
TEXT> A director. Student services has been nester, so if anybody would have a handle on it, it would be.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Interesting.

[R10374-28] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Discussion of those minutes. Seeing none. All those in favor? Opposed? Very good. Prescott, your honor.
TEXT> Busy and exciting week at Stephens High School  Thursday night. Fox news begins to arrive to  set up their Sunday morning Fox News program, with  broadcasts from the car audits  hosted by Chris Wallace. In that evening on May 19th, Mr. Wallace will be the moderator for a town hall for Democratic candidate for president, Pete Buttigieg. This Friday at 1245, Senator Gene will be visiting Stevens High School to have a roundtable conversation with the administration, school counselors, staff, and students  on the topics of the Gear Up Grant and career, college career, and workforce development. She will tour the high school, and we look forward to having a lively and informative conversation about the Senator  on the many things being accomplished at Stevens around these topics. Starting Thursday, we have the performances of The Lion King Junior with showtimes at seven on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and a matinee on Sunday from 2 to 4. Which means that if you are going to the Pete Buttigieg Town Hall, you can go to The Lion King right beforehand and still have an hour before heading to the doors.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Please come out and see this fabulous musical production highlighting the many talents of our actors, dancers and musicians, not to mention our text. Dad, on to Disney Art Elementary

[R10374-29] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2019-05-15
PREV> Prescott Herzog: on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and a matinee on Sunday from 2 to 4. Which means that if you are going to the Pete Buttigieg Town Hall, you can go to The Lion King right beforehand and still have an hour before heading to the doors.
TEXT> Please come out and see this fabulous musical production highlighting the many talents of our actors, dancers and musicians, not to mention our text. Dad, on to Disney Art Elementary school. Our fifth graders worked hard to show what they know on the English language arts, math and science. New Hampshire State Assessment this week. Next week, we will have makeup testing for students in grades three, four, and five who missed any part of the test. And there are numerous events going on in the month of May.  At Maple have elementary school.  There will be a release on May 17th,  and on May 23rd, the Maple Avenue Spring Concert for the first year, Ensemble Band Inquire will be held at CMS. The Rogue Robots of Four were one of the 32 teams that competed on Friday at the state. The team got first in the challenge course and first overall. They are going to the national competition in Maryland June 1st.  The fifth and sixth grade will start visiting from the elementary schools on May 30th.  Starting the transition from the elementary schools to the middle school and then at the tech center, the tech center, summer camps are now accepting registrations. The three summer camps are culinary construction in accounting slash computers. Visit the Tech Center website or the Facebook page to register your kids for the camp,  and the National Technical Honor Society is inducting 11 students on May 22nd here at the tech. Is All.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Thank you.

[R10374-34] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: It was, definitely worth worth it. And I would encourage other people in the future to, if you can do it, if it's possible to try to make the time because it's a great opportunity to interact with some of the kids.
TEXT> The results. Of that were recorded by those who participated, and those are being, typed up so that they're legible by all and they will be shared with the school board for the school board to use in their decision making moving forward and goal setting and things of that nature. So we do use the feedback from the students who participate in that luncheon every year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay.

[R10374-36] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> Superintendents report. Well, you kind of stole my thunder with that piece. So  I'll let you have that bit of it. But, I'm just teasing. We have, I think if I counted correctly, 21 days of school left this year. The last student day is June 14th. It's a Friday. I know that schools  at all levels have lots of things planned in the coming weeks. We we discussed that somewhat with the seniors we saw yesterday. Just knowing that these next few weeks get incredibly busy. There are evening events going on. External events, as Prescott mentioned, with candidates coming in and things of that nature. And it's just a fun time of year. The schools are very, very alive. So I encourage you to pay attention to what your students bring home for information about what's going on in their schools, and participate in what you can, because it will be enjoyable for all. And with 21 days of school left, this is also  I want to say this is my last Claremont School board meeting.  I won't be able to make the one on the 19th in June because of another commitment. And I will be officially resigning tomorrow evening at the board to,  move on to the role of superintendent and Cornish and Plainfield.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I won't be at your next meeting. And I just wanted to say thank you for your time as a board, your service to this community, and all that

[R10374-37] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: last Claremont School board meeting. I won't be able to make the one on the 19th in June because of another commitment. And I will be officially resigning tomorrow evening at the board to, move on to the role of superintendent and Cornish and Plainfield.
TEXT> So  I won't be at your next meeting. And I just wanted to say thank you for your time as a board, your service to this community, and all that you've done to help students in this community,  reach their best potential. So thank you for that. Thank you for supporting me. Thank you for a very challenging year of learning. And,  yeah, I know that I'm in this community and I'll cross paths with folks and sorts of places. I smell like fried food right now because I was helping out at the concession stand at baseball. But, I appreciated my time here, and I will miss my saw six family for sure. So thank you for that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R10374-49] Ms. Chastain | Stevens High School youth-in-government and student council advisor (s | 2019-05-15
PREV> Prescott Herzog: or get rid of the governor's personal bill was really fun. So, really getting to experience what politics is like at conquered with people your age and having a good time out of it. So I would strongly recommend the program to anyone at Stevens.
TEXT> I think my favorite moment. Was when they were asking Riley if she would yield to questioning on the floor, and. She. Just knew. Shut down and was right. So. And we had bills written all across the spectrum.  You know, Prescott's bills. And then we had a there's a lot of environmental  bills. We had kids trying to get rid of speed limits.  The pocket bill was deemed unconstitutional, which I'm really upset about.  Ending daylight savings time. All kinds of different bills. But they did a great job. They're just an awesome group. So. And I know they had.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Fun questions.

[R10374-69] Alicia Webster | Stevens High School student, student council (self-introduced [78]) | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Back to us. I'm sure what Nancy was do. Okay.
TEXT> I did go on the lead  conference trip, and it was for  five maybe students.  And we we definitely learned a lot  about leadership and just involving our communities as a school and not have it be so negative, but bringing positivity. And,  I don't know, there was a lot of different outlooks  on how to improve that. But yeah, I  really recommend it.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Where was that?

[R10374-72] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Alicia Webster: It was in Chicago.
TEXT> So I was talking with one of the, other students who went on that trip yesterday. And can you speak to a little bit of the what you as a group have done that trip?
NEXT> Alicia Webster: So we've actually had a couple of not clubs, but a couple of meetings about it, and we plan on taking action on certain things in the school next year.

[R10374-73] Alicia Webster | Stevens High School student, student council (self-introduced [78]) | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: So I was talking with one of the, other students who went on that trip yesterday. And can you speak to a little bit of the what you as a group have done that trip?
TEXT> So we've actually had a couple of not clubs, but a couple of meetings about it,  and we plan on taking action on certain things in the school  next year. But also  as a school, we're going to be working on communication and,  organization. So I hope that it's not only student council that broadens that, but also the whole school itself. Yeah.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So when I was down in Concord, last Tuesday, Berlin brought, I don't know how many kids a lot. The whole upper gallery of the Legislative Hall was full of

[R10374-77] Ms. Chastain | Stevens High School youth-in-government and student council advisor (s | 2019-05-15
PREV> Prescott Herzog: that reform that we were talking about with Senator Hennessy on increasing the funding for drivers in the state so that we can do it through the schools, not just through private enterprises. And I believe there was something about medical issues with Senator Sherman.
TEXT> Yeah, I know that one of our. Students in the difficulty for them to take classes because, I mean, I know I have students and these are probably among them going up to Lebanon, going  centipede way, going to Keene just to try and get their license. And it's hard for them, especially some kids like these guys who  are also,  you know, active member in clubs and sports and other organizations and doing their community service as well. It's really difficult  for them to get their license. And some of them don't get it until they're 18.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: That's it.

[R10374-89] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (uncertain - introduced by LeClai | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: And Melissa Lewis from dinner as outdoor education is an initiative that all three schools are embarking upon.
TEXT> Good evening. That's one of the things I love about my job. We work very collaboratively. And the programs that we're looking at it Maple, we're looking at for bluff and is not as well. We have  a real push for outdoor education. As you all know, we have lots of kids who are spending way too much time inside, and we are really looking forward to expanding our outdoor education program. And we have a teacher here who's sort of a pioneer at Maple right now, and she's going to share a few slides about what's happening. Also, we also wanted to share with you that tomorrow and Friday, all k five classroom teachers will receive specific training and outdoor education in preparation for the fall.  And as an outshoot of outdoor education, we have some parents who are really excited to talk to you about a six week time in the winter to consider winter program activities. We're really looking to get kids out and moving. We've increased recess time. We've added an afternoon recess. It's important stuff. We're really excited about it. So, Lisa,  did you want to add anything?
NEXT> Unidentified: Well, just, just from my experience, when I, when I worked in Windsor. We did this with our, with our kindergarten, and it was called Forest Fridays, and it was

[R10374-97] Lisa Holtz | Third grade teacher, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2019-05-15
PREV> Lisa Holtz: you know, we we were able to look at it and see what was going on with it. We the kids, the different parts of the stream with just the little stream that was going in there. Even a explored path can be an adventure.
TEXT> We saw many types of plants, and the source of that little stream that led to the vernal pool just right there. Benefits of outdoor learning. Social emotional healing and stability. Brain building and brain health. Physical health. Building  a ecology awareness, observation and other scientific skills. Science content but also reading, math, writing, social studies, learning and fun and learning combined. I asked my kids, what would you say about outdoor learning? And it says it helps me understand how things work. Buds, streams like in plants. Three students said that when we did measurement, it helped me because I didn't know that much about. Measuring fresh air helps me focus. It helps us learn more physically than in the classroom on the computer. Learning about it. You get to learn things outside and you can feel them and touch them and smell them. Having fun outside helps me learn math. It helps us learn fractions outside. Instead of that air, it's actually breathing good air. It helps me learn how a stream works. That was three three kids that said that it helps me learn how to do science when the breeze is going, and I learn where the when the birds are chirping and two kids, decided that that was true of them. So and I think that's the last the last slide. I think you better go one more just to make sure that's it. Okay. So thank you. Thank you for your time.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Thank you so much. Nice to have a few things that I was thinking of and Lisa was speaking is, I believe, Lisa, correct me if I'm wrong. That part

[R10374-99] Lisa Holtz | Third grade teacher, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: and other places to bring outdoor learning in a meaningful way to our students. And so it's not necessarily, in any way, shape or form an additional burden on anyone. It's really just an. The possibilities are limitless. With the opportunities that we have here.
TEXT> Our. Own Sullivan County Conservation District, they are fabulous to work with. They want to  they want to help us in any way they can. They  they brought, one of them. Don Dexter's actually sewed a big, soil tunnel. It was a tunnel. And my kids last year crawled through this tunnel and saw that. And she said, worms, you know, fake worms and air and roots and everything. So she brings that to, to to anybody who requests it. And she does a little mini lesson on soil. She, they they're also the ones who own  the stream table. And just for the cost of transporting it, which is $50, you can anybody can, can loan can borrow it. They are really great to work with. And Lionel Chute is a  a botanist. He knows anything. He knows everything about plants. So as we're we're working on our school yard habitat. He they have really helped us out a lot. They did some soil sampling for us to to, you know, tell us where what would be the best plants that would go around our building. We have so many people  that want to help us get kids out. Learning, just learning.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Outside board. Have any questions for Mrs. Holtz?

[R10374-111] Unidentified | Unidentified - third grade teacher at Maple Avenue and parent (name no | 2019-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: would be doing uses time constructively practices self control, listens without interrupting all of those skills that some of our students learn at home and, and frankly, some others don't. So it's a great opportunity not only to be doing an outside activity, physical activity.
TEXT> It's healthy.  It gets them away from the classroom and engage in other types of activities,  but it just opens up a whole new world for so many of our kiddos. And that's one reason why we're here, is to do that for students who may not have the opportunity otherwise. So I'm really excited about it, and I think it just fits very well with the outdoor.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Learning is. Really looking at every child. And the whole child. And, I think that we have an opportunity with outdoor education and winter programing to. Invest in some kids

[R10374-112] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: new world for so many of our kiddos. And that's one reason why we're here, is to do that for students who may not have the opportunity otherwise. So I'm really excited about it, and I think it just fits very well with the outdoor.
TEXT> Learning is. Really looking at every child. And the whole child. And, I think that we have an opportunity with outdoor education and winter programing to. Invest in some kids who maybe have been forgotten. Along. The way and. Provide a stimulating experience for them. I remember when my son went to kindergarten, the. Sedentary nature of kindergarten was such that it changed his whole physical being, and that's really disheartening as a parent, to think that you're sending your child to school and they just become sedentary during the day, and that's what they're being taught. Learning is supposed to be that's not what learning has to be. And so we want to think  more about how do we produce healthy, vibrant children? Who and how do we create a school system that is attractive to parents with young children that they want to move here, that they want to be part of this community for the health of this district long term. We've already talked about funding tonight. This is yet another piece of that. And so if we can, we can increase our attractiveness of our school district to others.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And coupled with all of the amazing resources we have in this community, we've just become higher and higher on the list of destinations for families as they're looking. And

[R10374-117] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: until we knew it was dark and we needed to have supper. We played outside all day. I think it made a big difference in. But, my question is, how does the liability affect if they're outside of the school zone? I that I would.
TEXT> So interesting that you asked that we actually had a conference call. I forget which day this week. It was Tuesday with Prime X I insurance provider  and one of the projects kind of in the works or, or we're pursuing at the moment is a partnership between Maple Avenue School, for instance, and Moody Park. The properties are adjacent, and there's an opportunity to build a connective pathway between the two properties. And so Prime X is actually going to be coming out here looking at the land as it sits now, identifying potential risks. Those risks can then be addressed in any sort of proposal going forward of how we create that path appropriately, so that both the city and the school district are properly covered in that stance. So, other school districts do it. Prime X is aware of these things happening. It's just a continual conversation with them to ensure that all students are protected, no matter where they are. It'd be no different than a field trip. And we go on those.  Not all the time, not as much as we like, but we go on those frequently, so it would be no different than that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm sure there are some activities that they would not recommend, and there are other activities that, as Corey just said, that a lot of schools are doing this. So

[R10374-134] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: You did.
TEXT> Get in the school funding,  I did. It talked to somebody from Berlin, was quoted someone from Newport, and I was quoted. And what I said that was quotable was the, What I, what was quoted was that, that the schools are a canary in the coal mine for the community and that if the life support is cut off from schools, then the rest of the community will soon fade or something to that effect. But they they actually did use part of what I said. I couldn't believe it when I saw it, so. But but again, as I had said earlier to Prescott and the and Miss Chastain's group, it would be great to have kids go down. That's what a lot of other districts are doing.  They'll have the, they'll particularly Berlin. They must have had 200 kids there. So and then kids were getting were getting up and talking about the things that they've lost that they used to have and things that they're going to lose. And that's pretty compelling. So I'd like to see more involvement, more community members going, because there's a citizen from Newport that went down to the Senate hearing and, and spoke and he was quoted. So it's an ongoing battle. But make sure you read the emails from the National School Board. There's do you get the emails from the school funding fairness? Do you get that as well? Yeah.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I think it would be important. I mean, the kids that worked hard in the legislative process, but they were kind of, not in the know as to what I

[R10374-195] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: the schedule set up with the building principles, that if, somebody from the budget subcommittee would like to join us based on whatever schedule we come up with, I think that that would be informative for some of their your decision making coming budget time.
TEXT> Well, absolutely. Because we we sit with Steve Holt  and as part of the of the budget process. So if we had that information coming to us through your subcommittee, that would save us probably 2 to 3 hours of meeting time, I suspect, during the actual budget. Budget process. Yeah, that's that's an easy one. So our  Heather and I are on the policy committee for the, saw, and I think we're I'm going to try to talk to  our tomorrow night and see if we can start setting up meetings to get together and sort of look at  it, maybe have some homework assignments on looking at, what policies carry over into an essay setting as opposed to,  a town or a school? We only have one employee, for example, so we don't have any students. So there are  but there are some policies that do, that do apply to an issue level.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we only have one employee who reports to you. However. There are more than one employee at the same level. That's true. Yeah, right.

[R10375-180] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 | 2019-05-16
PREV> Unidentified: Oh. You did.
TEXT> So  this all had to do with HB 1612, which is now RSA winning the 966. The state has really pushed for improving our privacy for staff and for students to make sure that the data that we store is secure, is safe. How we transfer that data, how we move the data around that we're employing our systems, that we're ensuring that we  strengthen our our network, our data transfers, procedures, everything to make sure that we're doing our best to protect information. So that's essentially what this is about. No system is perfect. So there's also a process for, dealing with an infraction that does occur and what our process is when that happens. So, this is a, a document that will exist from now on based on the law, and it should be updated annually. There's a lot of a lot of pieces in there where we are not necessarily perfect that require a financial or change in process and procedure about how we go about things as a district. But this is what we are able to put together this year to present to you. There's little things like our all of our servers behind a locked door. Which they are not. So if you go into our schools, we have server racks and network switches and things like that that are being used as a classroom. So they're just sitting there open and people can, can access them.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: Having, having backup generators for, for our servers, things like that we don't have. So all of these things require, decisions from the board, if that's what they want to

[R10463-119] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: So what were like if you were going to say there was a reoccurring theme that the community was articulating that they were had concerns about what would what would you say those were?
TEXT> I think the only the. Only themes that keep coming up is, consistently as you put is, is making sure we have enough for the schools and the students and, that that's about it. And, and I had some really compelling parents ask how they can do more and communicate more and, you know, be on councils and the like, community members talking about, recent events. Having to do with us, you know, cultural climate about some topical issues in the community and how the schools can play a role with that and should and look, the leadership for some of those things. Nothing, nothing out of the ordinary. But but really, really civic minded conversations about that from the teachers I've heard, you know, things about. Yeah. Just they're they're okay. Just some of the, I've heard from a few teachers who actually live in Claremont, but who who work in other districts about kind of closing some of the pay inequities so that we don't lose our best and our brightest to go to other places. If you, you know, longstanding issues that we're going to have to look at and, you know, he'd some of, of, of that perspective, but overall very positive things, very positive.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Sure.

[R10463-128] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2019-07-25
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I was pleasantly surprised. Summer. Everyone's going in a million directions. And I think it shows how committed your your communities are. It's it's great.
TEXT> So I was just going to say that for the first. Time on this school board for the last couple of months, I feel like it's the comet it's ever been, and I haven't been stressed out to the max every night, and there's been no drama, and I've been able to sleep a little bit. So I don't know what the future holds, but I know that I do appreciate that. I feel like we can start focusing on kids more so than all of the other things that have been going on in the district, so I'm appreciative of that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Definitely our intention.

[R10463-146] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair; SAU 6 Board member | 2019-07-25
PREV> Courtney Porter: So I've always had a spot right at the Back to School festival for Charlene.
TEXT> The people who come and screened for lead take the the testing for lead in the students. Who does that? That's the hospital or something.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: I think Charlene has always made that connection for us. So, Frank, let's connect after this, okay? Okay.

[R10463-169] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Courtney Porter: is that you first go to your school table. We want you to say hi to your principal. We want you to say hi to your guidance counselor. And then what they're going to do is they're going to check on on their enrollment forms.
TEXT> Oftentimes what we find through our school district is when the day starts and it's school day one. Oh my gosh, something happened with Courtney. We're going to try and call her mom. Oh we don't have her phone number.  So what will happen on the Back to School festival is that we're going to have students and families check in with their school first. They're going to make sure that we have their accurate phone number. They're going to get this cute little card that says, hey, head over there and get your backpack. Because the biggest thing that this festival about is creating relationships. And that's what we want to do. You know, the goal number three of the Claremont School District Master Plan is how do we connect the community and the families. So this is just another step in creating a great. So what will happen is they'll come, they'll check in with their school. And then we have folks from Wheeling, folks from NFR and Terry Casey like who doesn't know Terry Casey  like, hello, how fabulous is she? And so we will have a multitude of tables set up where families will first go and check in with their school. They'll make sure that they're ready to go. They'll make that personal relationship with their principal, with their guidance counselor, with their teacher. And then they'll get this cute little card, and then they'll turn around and be like, can I. Get my back?
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Does that answer your question? Yeah.

[R10472-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: To do with that money?
TEXT> In what we  are  proposing to the board is that we take  a portion of  that money and  allocate it.  Eight $89,669  for each position that that is needed at the middle school for the   science, for one science position, and also for one,  social studies position that have gone on filled in.  Thus  students haven't had,  a full schedule. They've had only half a year of science and half a year of  social studies for a few years now. We want to rectify that. That still leaves a remainder  of approximately $50,000.  In addition to we have a resignation  of a grant  manager  that's in the vicinity of $70,000. So combined, there's still plenty of money in there. And I know that was of concern from the board and some citizens that we  make sure we get,  you know, the final word on what we need from the audit findings and things like that to make sure we are well staffed in the in the central office for that. And we still have plenty  to do with that. The we wanted to be expedient in approving this as fast as we could to give the the administrative team at the middle school enough time to hire appropriate staff so that that was the impetus for all of this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm going to share what I know about this and this. This predates me actually being on the board. This is dates back when I still work for the

[R10472-33] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-07-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Sure.
TEXT> The just jumping in, having had kids going through the middle school myself when,  when this transition was happening, students would wind up instead of being in an academic for the other half of the year, would wind up in something poorly defined, like called enrichment or something like that. That, from what I was hearing from my own kids, was.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Just waste of time. Yes.

[R10472-70] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Unidentified: Sure. The American.
TEXT> So the American Legion, that was a,  I did have their both donations.  Were for the, for the Claremont Middle School and the American Legion  donation was  a check for scholarships to attend  a field trip  for six students. They were $120 cost in. In addition to  that American Legion I also wanted to see and I caught this in the in the text that,  the Polish American Citizens Club is also  sponsored three, three scholarships at a cost of $360 as well. So it's a great community  support for really worthwhile  trip to going into Boston and  kind of the Boston Tea Party, Blue Man Group and opportunities.  Many students don't get to do. So it's it's a very generous and we appreciate it.
NEXT> Unidentified: And the.

[R10506-75] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named only as 'Donna' on this recordi | 2019-08-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So so that is a that's what we did, I think. And you can speak to the highlights. Those were existing policies Don.
TEXT> Sure. Well what had happened is if when you look at the policy, the policy that's written is the one in a like a quarter page, that's the one that's from ours. This one, the new one, it's it really breaks everything down into detail as well as it puts in the policy that for long term and short term suspension. So a short term suspension would be that the  up to the principal. So a principal can suspend a student up to ten days. And then after that they can refer to the superintendent's office for a long term suspension if, if deemed fit. And then the superintendent's office could then refer to the school board. None of that was in our current policy as written. It just stated that we could only do ten days. There was no anything. Yeah, the principals could only do ten days. There was no superintendent, there was no school board.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The superintendent can only do another additional ten days. Correct. And beyond that is correct.

[R10506-84] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (named only as 'Donna' on this recordi | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Okay.
TEXT> Just yeah, there were I didn't want to change any because as I gave it to you, I didn't want to go in and make any changes. So we did have a discussion, like for instance, in the first yellow block which says, which includes but not limited, it was suggested to put but is not limited. So there are a few pieces that needed to be added to that as well as, on page three  on the top where it says the student who is subject to short term suspension, it's not to exceed ten days is what it what it should read.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Not less.

[R10506-124] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: So we had our.
TEXT> With the entire team. We included,  all of the district. District folks, principals, support staff, technology,  also professional development people who basically the whole team to look at and come up with some of our themes that I mentioned to you before that we're developing and also to kind of put right out on the  on the papers where we needed to go, data to look at all those types of things, what we are doing. And we also just followed up from that meeting right before this meeting at 330 to 6:00, right, right here in the teal. And,  we have some committees that we want to make sure continue that have some of them have been dormant,  within the school district.  And we want to focus on bringing those back. And we also had a couple that developed today that we were talking about, that I'll just apprize the board of, the three that that, definitely emerged in Meredith when we met were the, the curriculum committee, the Health and Wellness Committee and calling it that and the Health and Wellness Committee. Now we have my God chime right in. Anyone the some of the team members are here. I believe we have at least a 4 or 5 subcommittees on that, one of them being  a student. Mental health. Health and wellness of staff, which existed. And we we want to do that in terms of wellness, participation in events and things like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We are now, we had some specific, excuse me, some specific objectives with the community led program that's going on with Claremont's taking the lead, that those subcommittee for that

[R10506-127] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the high school and the middle school can work together to align potential. You know, schedules to share resources as we see populations dwindling in one building or, or trying to create feeder programs for richer offerings in the high school from the middle school.
TEXT> And we've said at the last meeting, we have an absolute. Model of a campus for a middle school, you have a community center, you have a,  a an adventure facility. You have  a tech option right in the same parking lot. And we really want to harness what we have. So that was one. The other was the technology committee where particularly with with the new vision we have with this from Mr. Small, in looking at the types of networks that we have in the capacity that we have to positively go forward and put more computers in the hands of students, and so that they're using them and looking towards. And this will also be and I know we already started, but we had the change  of leadership  from Mr. Malloy to Mr. Small. We're looking at those not only as they present from a usage standpoint, but also as those things exist in the capital plan, having  technology replacement cycles and doing that,  a hard look at what that might cost, infrastructure and other types of things. And there's a lot of grant money  around that. We can also target for that, that we're excited to look at. So, and I think that was it. The. Oh, the safety committee. Yes. We we already started that with a police and fire in the community. And in other our first response. Folks, there's overlap there with the mental health aspect.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're knowing your students well. So, so to leave any out. Okay, let's do it. I'm surprised.

[R10506-128] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: excited to look at. So, and I think that was it. The. Oh, the safety committee. Yes. We we already started that with a police and fire in the community. And in other our first response. Folks, there's overlap there with the mental health aspect.
TEXT> We're knowing your students well. So, so to leave any out. Okay, let's do it. I'm surprised.
NEXT> Unidentified: There.

[R10506-134] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2019-08-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Questions for the superintendent.
TEXT> I just had a. Discussion about how we could improve the dual enrollment program, or the percentage of high school students that are taking advantage of that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I did I did miss one. That was that was one that was the college and career readiness one. So that that was a exactly we spoke about that looking

[R10506-139] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: That's.
TEXT> Tens of thousands, and not just for the very lowest income, but the people who miss that financial aid cut off point. It can be the make or break for some families to be able to support their kids. Going to college is is as far as making it financially viable. And then my other thing that I just wanted to throw out there is whether there was any conversation about, staff satisfaction and community satisfaction with the change in our grading system. I know that happened before you came, but I was just curious whether or not there was a sense whether there was value added. Would that change  or not, or if there were still issues within the school system, parents and staff feeling that it wasn't.
NEXT> Unidentified: So,

[R10506-142] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And we're going to take a hard look at that, and we're going to have a subcommittee on that. If it is something that is confusing people and is actually impeding kids, this is what I've heard, and we haven't bought it out for data.
TEXT> I've heard that some people are  a little bit concerned, in some cases,  that students were stymied by the by the traditional rank in  process and where they how that impacted the rank. So many kids, you know, they're by not having numbers all the way through and some confusion about the prevalence of of with distinction. And what does that mean? How does it translate? How is that affecting? I think we need to look at all of that. The whole big purpose for that in a in,  Pat had a conversation in with a  reporter and a story on that, you know, speaking to that very openly and honestly that we have some some more assessment to do with that. So we're going to be looking at that, because at the end of the day, if it's it's such an esoteric concept actually to to look at those things into, to vet it all the way out, that if it's confusing the general public and a nuisance, we we have bigger fish to fry. We, we we don't have kids, don't have full schedules that we're getting as creative as we can to to max that out in the middle school so that they're getting full complement of science and social studies and putting some things back. And with the, you know, the budget, right now at a, at a standstill, we want to be sure to roll those things out.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, we'll be looking at that because I'm not sure the time that that takes is, is worth the energy for so many other apparent gaps that we could concentrate

[R10506-158] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: I'm sorry.
TEXT> To that end. Okay. I know that we have, I can add this item. I was going to do it. It's a little bit. We have our. I don't think I made a formal announcement of our new, business administrator, assistant superintendent for for a finance in operations. Same title is a Richard Seaman who was a member of the school board  and  is a Claremont resident. And  he has  he will be coming on board October 2nd. He  has a very, depth and breadth of understanding of school finance doing the position currently and Woodstock, Vermont area with their consolidation issues. He has children have gone through the committee. Obviously he served on the board, has a great institutional knowledge of of of the processes and some of the issues affecting Claremont,  and outstanding references. So we're really excited to have him come on board.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: He's coming. When?

[R10506-216] Steven Moss | Curriculum specialist grades 6-12, SAU 6 (chair's 'Mr. Moss'; full nam | 2019-08-21
PREV> Steven Moss: lesson plans and working with teachers to create what they refer to as a near peer relationship, for teachers in rural areas so they can get together, trade ideas, discuss concepts, teaching strategies, and then the focus is going to be on middle school programs.
TEXT> So what we're going to do is start this year with our sixth grade teacher is going to be enrolled on September 12th. Myself, sixth grade teacher and Frank are going to go to Dartmouth College for a full day to discuss the outlines and specifics of the program. And then  receive training. And then they are going to send grad students from their Stem department to come and shadow our teacher and work with him and develop lesson plans and curriculum to help bring in Stem education. They're going to do that with our school, where the largest of the four schools, you can see up here, the four schools are going to be Indian River Barnett School in Vermont and Turn Bridge Central  School in Vermont. And  then, we're the largest of the four. So they're going to be spending a lot of time with us. And we're we're pretty excited about it. So, whoops back. Is there two of the same.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Looks like.

