[R16409-10] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: but prior to our vote. So regardless, everybody will have an opportunity. If we do not extend our 30 minute time limit to have their voice heard, and that allows folks to go home because I suspect this is going to be a long meeting.
TEXT> This clearly will be televised on CCTV, so you won't miss a second. So,  all of you are welcome to do as you choose.  Miss Kronberg, we're going to.  Three minutes is our time limit. She will hold up a yellow card that says you got one minute left when you've got one minute left. So keep an eye out there. She'll hold up the red to let you know. Times time limits up. There is going to be a sheet of paper at the podium. And if you could please put your name and ward.  There was a request for a resident who had a child in the district, a nonresident who has a child in the district to speak, and I allowed that to  be approved. So first up, first individual up.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll come.

[R16409-13] Liza Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's fine.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Lisa Draper, and I'm a resident of Ward three.  I read in the paper that there's some concern about the policy that we have in place. It was put in place in 2016 for the protection of our trans and gender nonconforming students. And if you read it carefully, it has in it the comment that everything should be addressed on a case by case basis. So there is no need, just to be clear, to make any decision across the board on anything, because the policy itself says that. In addition, I wanted you to be aware of some of the cases that have come forward in New Hampshire of late, in case perhaps you weren't as well as a very important federal case. So we'll start with that one. I wondered if you knew of Gavin Grimm. Gavin Grimm is a student, a trans male student who took the Virginia school board from his district to court. He took them to court because they refused to allow him to use the restroom with which he identified, and he won. It took years, but he won a $1.3 million settlement against said school district, and the Supreme Court declined to hear any appeal.
NEXT> Liza Draper: His case was decided, appealed and upheld at the federal level. Here in New Hampshire, I don't know how many of you have been following the cruelty exhibited in both

[R16409-14] Liza Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Liza Draper: He took them to court because they refused to allow him to use the restroom with which he identified, and he won. It took years, but he won a $1.3 million settlement against said school district, and the Supreme Court declined to hear any appeal.
TEXT> His case was decided, appealed and upheld at the federal level. Here in New Hampshire, I don't know how many of you have been following the cruelty exhibited in both by bigoted student parents who decided to make the two. I want to draw emphasis to the small numbers of children who are being affected by the behavior of adults. To the two female students in New Hampshire who plead with their school districts for the right to participate in the athletic teams of which they have already been a part, and they too prevailed. So here in New Hampshire, we have precedent for students who have asked to play on the teams with which they identify to do so. Not only did they prevail, but glad and the ACLU have extended that case to respond to the hate, to use this word executive to the orders of the current administration that deal with gender nonconforming people and do so with a taste of homo and transphobia that makes some of us ill. Finally, there is a really important case that just was resolved for the Manchester School district. The Manchester School District maintained its right. I'm quite aware, maintained its right to protect its trans and gender nonconforming students from having to be outside. They asked that their pronouns be respected. They ask that they be treated with dignity in their classrooms.
NEXT> Liza Draper: And guess what? They won. So before you unwittingly open up a real can of worms and invite unkindness, bullying, harassment and other crud into our school environments. Please think

[R16409-21] Camron Lownie | Public commenter, Ward 2; district teacher (Disnard Elementary) | 2025-03-19
PREV> Camron Lownie: 45 seconds. When you look at trans and non-binary kids in particular, roughly half have strongly considered suicide in the past year. That's the whole ball game right there. With numbers like that, I don't really care about points one and two, to be honest.
TEXT> These are our most vulnerable kids. If you're concerned about bullying, I'm concerned that rescinding this policy takes away a tool in our toolbox. If you're concerned about Washington bureaucrats reaching into our classroom, that's what this is. Please take a stand. We're not the only community dealing with this. Don't throw our most vulnerable kids under the bus.
NEXT> Kelly Fontaine: Kelly Fontaine I am Ward one. I am also a teacher, but I'm speaking as a community member. And maybe teacher. Depends on what I say. As we said, the

[R16409-22] Kelly Fontaine | Public commenter, Ward 1; district teacher (self-introduction captured | 2025-03-19
PREV> Camron Lownie: rescinding this policy takes away a tool in our toolbox. If you're concerned about Washington bureaucrats reaching into our classroom, that's what this is. Please take a stand. We're not the only community dealing with this. Don't throw our most vulnerable kids under the bus.
TEXT> Kelly Fontaine I am Ward one. I am also a teacher, but I'm speaking as a community member. And maybe teacher. Depends on what I say.  As we said, the Pledge of Allegiance. I couldn't help but think justice for all. And that is all of us. It is not for any of us to judge other people if we're right or we're wrong in our beliefs, but it is for us to support those who need to be supported. There was a student,  that was very dear to me that was at the high school who was a transgender student shortly before this policy was written. And that student, the adults thought they were doing well. They were not. They were trying their best, but they had no roadmap. So as so they left him to blaze his own trail. He was 14. A 14 year old cannot blaze their own trail. They need to have the support of their community behind them.  And so I support this. I think this is a very well written. Whoever wrote this, I think they did a great job with this policy. And just because other people are questioning things doesn't mean that this isn't a policy that the district should continue to support. We need to go forward. We can't go backward. It was important then. It is important now. And so thank you very much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16409-27] Dylan Marsh | Public commenter; district parent | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Anyone else that would like to come to speak?
TEXT> My name is Dylan Marsh. I have a child in the district. Going to cover a lot of the same things these other folks have said. So I'll try and keep it brief, but I'm surprised that this policy is even being discussed to be removed.  And I was so surprised that the school Board Association had made that suggestion that I reached out to a number of other school board chairs who said that that wasn't the case. And in fact, I have an email in my possession from  Barrett Christina, the executive director of the New Hampshire School Board Association, to another school board chair, saying, I do not recommend removing any policy. We need to wait and see what happens. So to make the distinction now, to remove that policy was incredibly surprising, I think to the merit of federal funding. We're talking about funding that we receive from the Department of Education that is being actively dismantled by the administration, who wrote the executive order. That's telling you to remove whatever policy it may be. So I can't imagine that there will be even federal funding to be offered. I think that it's surprising that this is going to be the focus for federal funding, because I would be shocked if the school board today could tell me that we is a district or in compliance across the board with all federal requirements to receive federal funding.
NEXT> Dylan Marsh: And ultimately, the amount of federal funding that we receive as a percentage of the overall tuition costs for students or whatever costs there may be. And ultimately, it's my

[R16409-28] Dylan Marsh | Public commenter; district parent | 2025-03-19
PREV> Dylan Marsh: it's surprising that this is going to be the focus for federal funding, because I would be shocked if the school board today could tell me that we is a district or in compliance across the board with all federal requirements to receive federal funding.
TEXT> And ultimately, the amount of federal funding that we receive as a percentage of the overall tuition costs for students or whatever costs there may be. And ultimately, it's my belief that if you were to remove this policy for that percentage, then you have effectively said, we have a price that we are willing to accept to remove civil rights for students. And I think that is an act of cowardice. And I really hope that you folks consider that when you decide to vote and I'll write my name. Thanks so much.
NEXT> Onyx Adrian: I am on from Ward one. I would like to expand upon on what Patrick has said. I personally think that it would have been better to have reviewed the

[R16409-29] Onyx Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School student | 2025-03-19
PREV> Dylan Marsh: a price that we are willing to accept to remove civil rights for students. And I think that is an act of cowardice. And I really hope that you folks consider that when you decide to vote and I'll write my name. Thanks so much.
TEXT> I am on from Ward one.  I would like to expand upon on what Patrick has said.  I personally think that it would have been better to have  reviewed the policy rather than straight up just removal. If removal is a decision that you would make the next meeting. That is completely more understandable. I just feel as if giving the time for people to come to a conclusion and make a decision  on it would be more beneficial,  as just as a whole entire school district, rather than just straight up removal of the policy, as every other policy that is in the agenda for tonight is under,  review rather than complete removal. As a student  at Stevens. In my past few years, I have observed a lot of things, and one of the main things that I have desert has  observed is that students are more willing to cooperate and to learn when they feel in a safe environment. I understand that you're worried about federal funding, but as Patrick has said, there's it's more likely that you have the time to go over these policies and correct the words that  are kind of vague in sort of manner. So I just feel that is I don't not think removal would be a good option at this time. And I feel as if review would be more beneficial.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Hello.

[R16409-46] Wayne Hemingway | State Representative (Ward 1 resident); public commenter | 2025-03-19
PREV> Wayne Hemingway: the policy says, then we are putting our children in a position where they could be harmed. Do we not have privacy and doors in our bathrooms? If single person use bathroom in our houses, then why do we not allow that in the schools?
TEXT> I have no problem with any any person.  I just want protection and justice for all and the fair treatment for everyone.  And when we allow this, we are not giving. Let me just restate that we need to make sure that every child is safe.  Not just your transgenders, not just your LBGT community.  Every single child that goes to that school needs to have the ability to be safe  and be heard. All we're doing is we're hearing one side of the story  and we need to hear both sides. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16409-55] Jess Dyer | Public commenter, Ward 1 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Ken Brummel: the lowest group in our thing, what are we going to sacrifice the next time? So to me, the process that's going on here is important for us to consider. Thank you. Thank you. And by the way, thank you for the. Work you do.
TEXT> Hi. Jess Dyer, Ward one. I just wanted to clarify a few things, because it seems like some people in the audience might be a little bit confused. For the folks that are concerned about, having biological males in female bathrooms, or vice versa. I just want to say that gender identity is not the same as sexual orientation. Totally different things. Gender identity is how one perceives themselves,  and sexual orientation is who they are attracted to.  So it's it's not the same. And thinking about it. For one, like we're, we're discussing  children,  from kindergarten up until 12th grade here. And,
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Please address the chair. Thank you.

[R16409-57] Jess Dyer | Public commenter, Ward 1 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Please address the chair. Thank you.
TEXT> Yes. Sorry. And, you know, like, are we are we going to start screening, like, maybe high school students, who may identify as lesbian or gay and have them go to their own bathrooms, too? Like, I went to Stevens. I graduated from there. And if this is the issue, like if sexual assault, the risk of it is the issue or that's what's making certain folks uncomfortable, like then this is going to get a lot more detailed than that. And another thing I just wanted to bring up is that, again, with the threat of federal funding, Trump also the administration also yesterday, Took away the federal ban for public facilities to have protections for like segregation and stuff. So, like, what is the school board going to do when that falls into our lab next? So just another thing to think about.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else in the audience that would like to speak? Yes. My name is Rebecca McKenzie. I live in.

[R16409-140] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.
TEXT> I just want a quick footnote. We heard from Superintendent Pratt earlier, where he outlined a number of other policies that provide what I would call safeguards for protection of students that would serve in terms. Of just. Yeah.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That was pretty much the purpose of the statement. No matter what the decision, we want to make sure that we still can fall back on law and current policies

[R16409-149] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Response. Mr.. Howard.
TEXT> I think in the email we got from the attorney, a lot of the languages could include withholding federal funds. It is unclear what specific revisions need to be required. Will be required. They are also say that the ever changing law is a problem in reviewing this. And so I think based on all those things  and us not having a timeline from the federal government and an actual explicit threat to pull Claremont's funding, there's no reason to remove this policy, especially after hearing from the public tonight. I understand Frank's point. I understand Chris's point. There are protections in place against harassment, etc. but this has been policy for almost ten years now, has not resulted in any negative cases, to my knowledge. And the wording from our lawyer is pretty unclear, even to me. It's unclear to him, what how this could actually be enforced within our district. And so until there is something that is an enforcement mechanism that we can actually see that goes, hey, you're not going to get this $10 million if you don't undo this. I think it's irresponsible for us to do this until Matt up in can write a, a jab, revision that still protects these students but doesn't, you know, go against the federal law.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: A clarifying question clarifying. Are you saying that you support tabling but you don't support the inclusion of the phrase, to suspend the enforcement of the policy?

[R16409-154] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Loren Howard: Right.
TEXT> That we did not move forward. Okay. So there  there are some portions of the policy that are not compliant currently. Regardless. The NH AA has remained silent now on  access of transgender students in sports. And also we are non-compliant with parental involvement and notification. So those actions would be unenforceable as the policy stands now.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I don't know what you just said.

[R16409-166] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: I do too.
TEXT> So I think that being, I think suspension and removal, even if it's just three months or synonymous for trans kids in our schools, so whether or not we removed it in three months or we  suspend it now, the effect is going to start immediately for them. And then further, on the basis of us being the only one with the policy, I think that's a positive and not a negative thing that we were proactive in, in crafting this. And also, it's sort of hard to tell when you don't have an explicit policy for protecting transgender students.  How do you know how many, how many more students are going to stay in the closet because there is no explicit policy for them? So those would be my final comments.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I hear what you have to say, but I guess almost nobody knew this policy even existed. So till now, this.

[R16409-168] Loren Howard | School Board Member (interjection; leads into his following remark) | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I hear what you have to say, but I guess almost nobody knew this policy even existed. So till now, this.
TEXT> Moment. Not true. Trans children absolutely knew this policy existed. And it's very, very important. To me. I also don't know about, you know, I'm not great on dress code policies across the board, but it's because I haven't had a child who's had a dress code issue yet. When you have a trans child, it is very important these things are in place. So although it may seem to us that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do we have a policy that prohibits students from dressing other than this in a way that is.

[R16409-169] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Loren Howard: on dress code policies across the board, but it's because I haven't had a child who's had a dress code issue yet. When you have a trans child, it is very important these things are in place. So although it may seem to us that.
TEXT> Do we have a policy that prohibits students from dressing other than this in a way that is.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We don't need to get into that.

[R16409-172] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Loren Howard: That was an aside. That was an example.
TEXT> Just, you know, to address concerns that, suspending enforcement would truly put, you know, would inhibit. I, I personally do not feel that this policy has created the positive culture that we've had in our district that has been supportive of LGBT, LGBTQ, AI, plus students, transgender and non-conforming students. I think the culture that's in this district was driven by the people in this district, by the teachers, the administrators I have, I can I can't say definitively, but I,  I would probably bet $1 million at every administrator at the school level would consider themselves an LGBTQ I plus ally and would  bend over backwards to do everything they possibly could to ensure the safety of students that would fall under this policy. So I don't think that the behavior of the teachers will change. I don't think the behavior of the administrative team will change,  and I think that the culture will remain the same while we go through this procedural process. So that's that. I firmly believe that, I trust I trust the administrative team, I trust the teachers. I cannot foresee a sea change of culture shift because we've put this policy in a review and suspension process.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I would just like to reinforce that my motion is to table the policy. It is not to rescind the policy to it is to it is.

[R16409-177] Rebecca Vinduska | Public commenter, Ward 1 (onset 'Hi' clipped into adjacent cluster) | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there any further, debate from the board? We'll now open for individuals who did not speak. Everybody gets to speak once. So if you spoke before, no speaking now is your opportunity to speak before the vote.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Rebecca von Duska, a resident of Ward Ward. One. And like my colleague, I am a teacher at Claremont Middle School and a parent of children in the district. My feeling is that suspending the enforcement is the same as removing it. You're basically saying it is not in effect for this period of time, and I'm actually appalled that the board would come to the, the the board with this type of policy. Is there a precedent for not having the subjective changes to say, hey, we want to make these adjustments. This part is not enforced, but to just put it on hold. What my children will see tomorrow, my own children and my students. The headline will be Claremont School Board  Suspends Enforcement. To me, that means open season on gay and trans students. And I don't think that's what you mean to do, but that's what it sounds like. And I am so proud of this district for being one of the 15  who stood up. And I am so embarrassed  that we are one of the first ones who are bringing it up for removal. That says that we are kowtowing to this administration's whims.
NEXT> Rebecca Vinduska: What is next? What Miss Dyer said? What is next? And I don't believe that the current policies are covering what. There's a reason this was brought to the attention.

[R16409-178] Rebecca Vinduska | Public commenter, Ward 1; Claremont Middle School teacher | 2025-03-19
PREV> Rebecca Vinduska: am so proud of this district for being one of the 15 who stood up. And I am so embarrassed that we are one of the first ones who are bringing it up for removal. That says that we are kowtowing to this administration's whims.
TEXT> What is next? What Miss Dyer said? What is next? And I don't believe that the current policies are covering what. There's a reason this was brought to the attention. You all are elected by the community in 2016. There must have been somebody that brought this forward that said it was important. And I guess to doubt that. I. Chairman Whitney, you bring you listen so well to the concerns. That's what you focus on. How dare you say that somehow. Oh, I don't know how this came about. This is an issue. It has not been reviewed because it hasn't been a problem. And I am so proud of how our district handles these situations. I felt so supported  as a parent and and as administrator. We care so much, and I believe for a majority of staff and faculty that that will continue. But I'm afraid to say that there are some that I'm worried would not, and they would have take this as license to not accommodate these students. So thank you so much. I know you mean well, but suspension is the same as removing.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16409-186] Eric Bentley | Public commenter, Ward 2; district parent (self-introduction captured  | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else in the audience that would like to speak?
TEXT> My name is Eric Bentley. I live in Ward two. I just recently found out this policy existed. Admittedly, I wasn't paying attention before. My son just started kindergarten this year, so up until now, I wasn't paying attention to anything that was going on. So I just found out about it. Last week or the week before, and I read the policy. And there's just some things in there I think are a little bit concerning as a parent. I think we can all agree that, we don't want bullying in our school. We want kids to be safe. I know everyone keeps harping on that word safe. Keeping kids safe. Safe from what? In this situation, I'm not really sure what anyone's worried about happening. Suspending the policy. As you guys have stated, there's other policies, state law statutes in place that basically say the same things that the policy says as far as discrimination and things like that. I think the policy kind of tries to sneak in some other things that probably don't need to be or shouldn't be in there. I made a pretty point blank says that, you're going to keep things from parents.
NEXT> Eric Bentley: You're not going to disclose information to parents, which I think is probably the number one issue in the entire policy. I think there's a borderline First Amendment free speech

[R16409-187] Eric Bentley | Public commenter, Ward 2; district parent | 2025-03-19
PREV> Eric Bentley: as discrimination and things like that. I think the policy kind of tries to sneak in some other things that probably don't need to be or shouldn't be in there. I made a pretty point blank says that, you're going to keep things from parents.
TEXT> You're not going to disclose information to parents, which I think is probably the number one issue in the entire policy. I think there's  a borderline First Amendment free speech issue in the policy. Also, when it comes to, compelled speech, and things like that, if you don't use the correct pronouns or, you know, verbiage when addressing someone. So I'm just not really sure. I think suspending and reviewing the policy and maybe retooling it in a way that leaves out some of those more concerning  issues, would be the smart thing to do. And, yeah, I'm just really not sure what the big worry like what exactly anyone thinks is actually going to happen, to any of these trans kids. I mean, like I said, I think everyone wants to keep kids safe and not have anyone bullied. And, you know, I'm just not really. I mean, if people are going to kids are going to bully other kids, they're going to bully other kids regardless of what a school board policy says or doesn't say. Like Miss Whitney pointed out, I think the school has built a good community, and I don't think anything really is going to change as a result of some policy. So thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Any other questions from the. School board?

[R16409-245] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Loren Howard: That's why they're a single use bathrooms.
TEXT> And I don't think. I don't think women should have to be removed out of their spaces to go into a single bathroom. That's my perception. That is my objection to it not being suspended. There are other there are other items in this, policy that I have concerns with as well. And the suspension would allow us time to now that parents are, you know, some parents out there didn't know this existed. Now, parents have read this. I think that the vocal folks here do not necessarily represent the entirety of the parents in the district. I think a lot of people are afraid of social sanctioning. I think they're afraid of getting called a bigot and many other things when they're just actually wanting to voice concerns about their children. Their value systems and assumptions are made about their intent, and the assumptions are often malicious. And so it does prevent people from coming forth that I think otherwise would come forth. And that's why I was trying to maintain as much decorum as possible. So every single person felt that they could come and not be judged.  So that note, there is no other further comment from the board. We can vote on the motion as it stands, which is allowing the policy to stand.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any other comments from folks in the audience who have not spoken either at the beginning of the meeting, or currently seeing none on the motion as it

[R16409-359] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6; Title IX Coordinator | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: adopt. Yeah I would, I'll second that. Any discussion from president board. Noel, would you please read the motion for adoption without second read? All the favor. Say aye. Aye. Seeing no opposition policy is adopted, and I think we're on our last one. Mr..
TEXT> Finally, policy IHBCA, which is a combination of pregnancy and related medical conditions for students. There are references to other policies that have changed AC, AC, and so this needs updating. Those are the only changes to the policy.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay I will make a motion to move policy IHBCA accommodation of pregnancy and related medical conditions regarding this is related to students to adoption without second read. Second that

[R16409-360] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Mike Koski: Finally, policy IHBCA, which is a combination of pregnancy and related medical conditions for students. There are references to other policies that have changed AC, AC, and so this needs updating. Those are the only changes to the policy.
TEXT> Okay I will make a motion to move policy IHBCA accommodation of pregnancy and related medical conditions regarding this is related to students to adoption without second read. Second that second that any discussion seeing no discussion. Motion on the table to adopt policy a IHBCA. All in favor say aye. Aye. Seeing none opposed. Policy is adopted. Okay. Are we. Are we done with policies, mister? Okay.
NEXT> Mike Koski: That's great. Mr. Madden has mentioned there are many more that need to be updated.

[R16433-4] Kevin Tyson | Public commenter (recognized as 'Mr. Tyson' by the chair; full name pe | 2025-04-02
PREV> Kevin Tyson: the reachable PDF policy documents that was the source I used to identify the eight policies that must be examined in light of the recent legislative actions in Concord. It is not an authoritative source due to the broken links and the resulting missing policies.
TEXT> As an aside, the entire site contains 14 broken links. The single source of truth is essential because it allows for equitable access for all citizens of Claremont, including those who are neither employed by the SA nor have children enrolled in one of our schools. It is also essential to support you and the board at large in the task you undertook at the last meeting to review the job policy in three months, three months or 7.9 million seconds, is actually a stretch goal, given the disparate sources you'll need to consult and the fact that you are unpaid volunteers. It took me approximately 45 seconds to identify the eight problematic policies.  Thanks partly to having put together these single policy document, my second suggestion is the creation of a glossary. The glossary should contain a term, its definition as used in our policy documents, and optionally links to related terms. This will help ensure consistency across policies and equitable communications with citizens unfamiliar with specialized education. Language. My third suggestion is the adoption of what is affectionately known as IETF RFC 2119 or, in plain English, Key words to indicate requirements levels. This document precisely defines terms such as must, must not require a child. Shall not, should, should not recommend may an optional. It has made it possible for people in different countries, using different technologies to deliver products that work together seamlessly.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: Seamless integration of our policies would be a good thing to achieve. I will gladly provide information regarding open source and commercial off the shelf technology to support the policy

[R16433-8] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School counselor and senior-cla | 2025-04-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: budget season, and never once did I hear the adult Ed was on the chopping block or else trust me, I would have been here way earlier making this speech. This program plays a vital role not only in our school, but in our community.
TEXT> As a citizen, I know how closely the high school and the program worked together to help students be successful. And since the graduation rate continues to be a source of concern for this board, getting rid of a program that directly helps that rate seems short sighted. Equally as important to mention are the countless community members over the like 30 plus years of this program existing that have been able to earn their GED high set high school diploma. I fully realized that we were in a budget crunch, and funding programs can be tricky to do. However, I wanted to bring forward two ideas one. Collaborate with the city and see if there is a way you could share with them. Since it's highly valuable programs. There's not only the high schools kids, but the community as well to see if there is a way to downsize but not eliminate the program, perhaps run it for less amount of days or something similar. I truly hope the board looks into either of these ideas or brainstorms other ideas as well. This program is too important to let it fall by the wayside and end. Our school and community deserve better. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Next item of business is student board member reports. Madam chair. Yes. Oh, I'm sorry, I apologize. I'm very sorry.

[R16433-9] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-04-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: amount of days or something similar. I truly hope the board looks into either of these ideas or brainstorms other ideas as well. This program is too important to let it fall by the wayside and end. Our school and community deserve better. Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you very much. Next item of business is student board member reports. Madam chair. Yes. Oh, I'm sorry, I apologize. I'm very sorry.
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: Did you want to speak? No.

[R16433-25] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-04-02
PREV> Hillary Walsh: that leaves I think one more year without the grant. So that would mean it would be one more year non funded. So is there do we know if there's a if there is a plan in place to bring this back in a year.
TEXT> We are having a finance meeting. So we'll address this at the finance. Right. Thank you. No one else. Okay.  Next item on the agenda is student board member reports. And miss Lily Clark.
NEXT> Lily Clark: Our sports for spring had started up. Baseball has been active outside and indoor weather. They had a baseball scrimmage at 11 Saturday. Across. The weather holds out. We're playing

[R16433-29] Lily Clark | Student Board Member (spelling per approved minutes) | 2025-04-02
PREV> Lily Clark: our 6 a.m. flight. And will arrive back on Friday in the early morning. And then prom. The junior class is finishing final details for prom, which we decided decided it was on May 10th, and we're going to hold it from 7 to 11.
TEXT> We're also holding Grand March at 6:30 p.m., where students will be judged on the way we present ourselves to be voted into Crown Court and from King and Queen by spectators. Of course, we wanted people outside of the school district, so it's not biased. It's all just based on how we present ourselves.  Our theme this year is Night Out on the city. So we're having different cityscapes, and we're turning the gym into a city scape where we can just, like, have fun. And then Noel Hussain with our lovely newspaper. Oh, okay.
NEXT> Noel Beauchaine: So this. Has been in the works for a while. I transferred to Stephens this year. I'm a junior. And I went to Doctor Harrington at the beginning of the

[R16433-50] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-04-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any questions? Miss Crawford?
TEXT> Mary, it's not unusual. It's  March to April.  I've been on the board before, and I have seen there have been years that the freeze has hit in December. Yep. So that's not unusual, right? I would like Mr. McCusker more information about how we might how we might have a shortfall in this year's.  I really don't care about next year's students. I just want. How did we get here? Now.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: So one of the things. And Chris smacked me, if I, I need it. Well, you know. Heather encouraged me to be totally honest and transparent. Okay. Last July, when

[R16433-57] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> Because there were a number of students that ended up getting sent out of the district that were not included in the proposed budget. Okay. We had that meeting in July, every subcommittee meeting from that point until we got to budget Committee got canceled. So we never dealt with that issue. I went through all the numbers. I looked through everything. The number was right. We were short 900,000 somewhere around there.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So what I hear you saying, or interpret what you're saying, is that the budget, the proposed budget for special ed for the current year was about $1 million short.

[R16433-66] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-04-02
PREV> Mike McCosker: I began July 1st. So that budget was a was put together, what, nine months before voted on? Six months before my arrival.
TEXT> Let me let me ask another follow up question. When we put a budget together and for for these purposes, for special ed in particular, we anticipate certain as Mary's the two for next year, we anticipate certain students being in in district or out of district.  Has has one. So the projected amount. We've had more out of district placements by about $1 million.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yes. For this current budget.

[R16433-84] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-04-02
PREV> Mike McCosker: I've read the article you shared with me today, and I also went and called the state report. Yeah, as well.
TEXT> And, and the real concern is that they're not providing any academics. They're mainly,  it's just containment. It sounds like. So I've raised this concern before.  Not necessarily. And it's not directed at anybody, just a concern. After a conversation I had with someone I know that works for DHHS, and he had told me that one of the issues with placements is that they are having the same issues that everybody is in, getting quality people to provide the interventions that their programs are supposed to provide. Yeah. So my ongoing concern I have is we're sending kids off because we presume that these very expensive placements that can provide services that we cannot, we can't, but they may be getting worse services there than we would be giving them ourselves. Is my concern okay.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Can I just speak to that that second? Absolutely. So, I'm very confident with the schools that we do send our students to, Jessica McCloud, my assistant, spends a lot

[R16433-90] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Mike McCosker: Even in even sooner.
TEXT> Even sooner.  And because and that was the problem. They weren't processes in place. And especially I think there was an uptick during Covid. It's like, okay, we want out of district placement. An administrator would say, I want this kid go out of district and say, okay, let's send them. There wasn't a processes in place. So myself, Michael and Jess, we now we do have processes in place and we go and say, no, this is what we look at before it even gets to this piece now.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It would be great to see for the board to to. See what those processes are. Just from my own experience, I remember having very frustrated teachers come to me

[R16433-91] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-04-02
PREV> Chris Pratt: and say, okay, let's send them. There wasn't a processes in place. So myself, Michael and Jess, we now we do have processes in place and we go and say, no, this is what we look at before it even gets to this piece now.
TEXT> It would be great to see for the board to to. See what those processes are. Just from my own experience, I remember having very frustrated teachers come to me and say, I want this kid out of my class. I want them out of my class. And my first question to them was always, did you call the parent? What have you done? You know. Well, I haven't called the parent. I said, we're not doing anything. And so you inform the parent what's going on here.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. So we're trying to get back to those practices.

[R16433-109] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-04-02
PREV> Chris Pratt: We're we're excited to share the progress we've made and all that stuff. So we're looking forward to it.
TEXT> Yeah. And I just want to remind the administration just quickly that, a couple of years ago, when Stephanie Hurst was still here, we we as a board, she was the curriculum person heard that the, the number one problem that we have in this district or had at that time is just tier one, just general instruction. Kids are not getting the fundamentals. And it was just the spiral from there.
NEXT> Mary Henry: And and I think we're getting there. Honestly I can say to you in the. I've been here almost two years. There is a lot of headway that I know

[R16463-204] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Okay. You're allowed. Thank you.
TEXT> Were allowed. Thank you. I, as I'm pulling this up, I'm so used to doing a one on one work working with parents or kids that I. I wondered if I was going to be nervous presenting in front of a group. And then I realized I don't have to talk about budgets, so I feel pretty good. But yeah. So. So my name's Matthew Fortier. I work,  I work with TLC  out of New Hampshire Children's Trust. So there's a grant that exists from New Hampshire Children's Trust to create my position, which is a strength and families position. It's  the strengthening Families framework is a model of kind of working with parents and families to foster what are called protective factors. There's five that kind of define this philosophy. Anyway, this grant exists and they partnered with TLC. So I get to use a lot of their resources, like their social media and their team. And I work with a lot of their I try to connect and work with a lot of their clients. And so that's that's what I am. That's that's how I have come to be. And that started in about May.   And what I am presenting to you. And I see you guys have a copy and I'll apologize if I'm working out of a, an updated version of that. But I think for the most part, it's going to be the same.  I want to present on this needs assessment.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: I did so so I started in May and shortly after that time, you know, I realized I was kind of picking up where someone had left off, and I

[R16463-212] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: a couple of of email address right in the survey. But even after all those duplicates were taken out, we still had a eight over 800 unique responses, which was pretty exciting. You know, I was only expecting 100 maybe, maybe, maybe over 100, 150.
TEXT> So to have over 800 was was great. And, and it lends itself to the validity and the reliability of, of what we learn or what I, what I feel, what the takeaways are from what they say.  So if you're following along, I'm on a slide. Who responded? There's a couple of pie charts here.  And these are just the demographics, as the first couple of questions of the survey were demographics. But  obviously almost everybody was a parent.  Over 80% had between 1 and 3 kids, with some having more than three and only a few responders having no kids. Maybe they were expecting, but they didn't. They weren't born yet.  And then everyone was kind of in that, you know, 25, 26 to 45 age range.  And so that was hopeful for me because that's kind of my target audience here in my role as I'm trying to work with those newer parents or, you know, they have those young kids in the family. So, so it's great to hear that that was who logged on.  Another interesting takeaway, only interesting because I didn't expect it. And this may reflect more on my own bias. We had more than half percent or more than 50% of the responses were were fathers,  which which I don't know what the takeaway is from that, other than it was interesting to see because I expected it to be the other way around.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: I expected mothers to be, the predominant, you know, demographic responding and then fathers, you know, we had aunts and uncles were next and then grandparents and there were some

[R16463-214] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: resource navigation. The second most frequent reported struggle is parenting, which is perfect for me because that's what I'm here to support parents to do and to to become more confident in. And and that that struck me as, meaningful, especially because the next two.
TEXT> The next two struggles after that were which were close, but health care and work. And so they other than the finances which is intuitive and we all kind of would benefit from having more money. These parents were saying, hey,  and I and I can recall for you now a couple of example answers. You know, there was a lot of I want to connect with my teenager. There was a lot of,  entertaining my kids things, things of that nature.  And then and then for those to be the things people reported as the struggle and then for the next two of the top four to be health care and work. These aren't parents in the sense that I have worked with them after this. These aren't parents who are asking for stuff. You know, these are these are parents who are, you know, they're asking for the means to be more confident and productive parents. And so the rest of the slides were my attempts to glean what about parenting?  What would be helpful? And this is where we, we get into maybe I'm working on some updated slides here, but I think for the most part they'll match.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: I look so so now we have this group. So now we have two groups that I can look at. We have people who said parenting was a struggle and

[R16463-216] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: that's the sense I get. And, you know, working with parents for as long as I have, I that tends to be the case. You know, they you know, having your rent paid doesn't help you connect with your teenager any better or more effectively.
TEXT> And then conversely, people who did not report parenting as a struggle, they were significantly more likely to mention other things like food time, work life balance. They were money.  And like I said, work. And so you get this sense looking at this data that, you know, people who aren't struggling with people who have those skills, maybe have the time and the bandwidth to look at, well, what else do I need to to resolve here? And I think this is, is a valuable takeaway because it wasn't like most of the responders weren't parents. We already established  almost all of them were parents,  but not all of them felt confident in parenting. And when that was the case, they didn't maybe have the bandwidth to worry about other things. And then to investigate that a little more. When you look at the people who said, hey, parenting is tough. I don't, you know, I'm struggling to connect with my teenager. I wish I had more time to, you know, hang out with my, my, my elementary kids,  you know, what were they most likely to ask for? So they weren't asking for money. They weren't asking for work necessarily, what they were asking for.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: And for you guys who are following along. This is towards the end of the slides. They were asking for community events, I recall, and it was it was frequent

[R16463-217] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: teenager. I wish I had more time to, you know, hang out with my, my, my elementary kids, you know, what were they most likely to ask for? So they weren't asking for money. They weren't asking for work necessarily, what they were asking for.
TEXT> And for you guys who are following along. This is towards the end of the slides. They were asking for community events, I recall, and it was it was frequent enough that I can recall for you people were specifically saying, I don't have things to bring my kids to.  I don't have places that I can go with my kids for free. I think a lot of families with little babies and little toddlers who can't bring their kids to the movies, you know, I don't have a free place to go and spend time and connect with my kids in this way. And so and they were significantly more likely to ask for that. So if you said parenting was tough, you wanted places, you wanted things to do with your kids. And then, of course, child care, which is a little aside the scope of my program. I can't as one person build a program, but my hope moving forward will be to find ways to support that. But for me, that was the big takeaway is we have a lot of parents here who are wanting support, connecting with their kids and becoming more confident parents.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: And they and they will and they think, and I tend to agree, they think that opportunities to go out and do things with their kids might aid them in

[R16463-218] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: build a program, but my hope moving forward will be to find ways to support that. But for me, that was the big takeaway is we have a lot of parents here who are wanting support, connecting with their kids and becoming more confident parents.
TEXT> And they and they will and they think, and I tend to agree, they think that  opportunities to go out and do things with their kids might aid them in doing that. And so this is all to say, and this brings me to why I'm bringing this presentation to you.  Because because first I want to I want to spread the word a little bit about me and that I exist. Because what we've done since this survey was conducted is I've started hosting what are called family cafes. There's a slide in there about it. It's got a lot of text on it. If you don't want to read it all, I'll just talk about it right now.  So these family cafes are they are based on if you're familiar, there's this world cafes is what kind of the base model and TLC in New Hampshire. Children's plus uses something called, parent cafes. I've just used a different name to make sure I'm not doing anything  with copyright, but at least family cafes are just opportunities for parents to connect. They come to these meetings, I'm there. I host it with a free meal because, you know, because I want to mitigate that, that, you know, paywall that a lot of a lot of parents reflected on in their answers.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: And it was an opportunity for parents to come and have those events with their kids. I have I often have a volunteer who can support me with a playgroup

[R16463-219] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: opportunities for parents to connect. They come to these meetings, I'm there. I host it with a free meal because, you know, because I want to mitigate that, that, you know, paywall that a lot of a lot of parents reflected on in their answers.
TEXT> And it was an opportunity for parents to come and have those events with their kids. I have I often have a volunteer who can support me with a playgroup that is connected to the to the family cafe, so parents can join if they would like. Their kids can go to a separate space with other kids and my volunteers and be part of a playgroup. It's an hour long. Like I said, dinner is involved.  And this is my, reaction to the survey.  How do I presented this to you when this slideshow was completed? I wouldn't have been able to speak on it, but I've actually had a couple family cafes since, and they've been pretty successful. You know, for the few parents who have shown up. And I just want to say to, you know, anyone here, I'm hopeful to present this same slide  I other parent facing places.  But as often as I can, I want to spread the word that these family cafes exist. TLC because we're part New Hampshire Children Trust has partnered with them. Their social media is where that is all being advertised.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: And, ultimately, when I'm done speaking, I'm going to invite if it's appropriate. I didn't feedback on anyone who's working with families and maybe, maybe you can speak on what

[R16463-236] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board Member (SAU 6 Board); elected SAU 6 Treasurer a | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: I have, I have a can a couple of times. Only on occasions when they were very busy and we couldn't get into it too much because they partnered with TLC a lot.
TEXT> Both of those organizations are really promoting children and do a lot for children, and I know they'd be. It's a great way to spread word of mouth. And so if you could present to them, that would be a good way to get the word out.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: I think they're part of the public health. I'm part of a public health committee where they're they're also a member. And. Okay, to your point, I, I. Will have

[R16463-242] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair (SAU 6 Board member) | 2025-04-10
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Anyone any other questions?
TEXT> Miss said you were. Claremont based only our school district is an anchor school for more than one community. If there were families or children in our district that wanted to tap into these resources, would they be excluded for residency purposes or.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: I'm going to say that they can come.

[R16463-282] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-04-10
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Any other questions for Mr. Henry?
TEXT> Okay.  Moving on to special Ed now. Special Ed is showing that we have a budget balance in here. There's a reason for that. When we did this budget, we had a different person sitting in, the, one of the administrative roles in there.  And when the outer district court  had left and moved into another position, because we had a, we had someone different in the position, the person that came on actually stayed in Claremont's budget. And here's why. Because they serviced Claremont kids only. Only. That's why we left her in that budget for the remainder of the year.  Again, like I said, it was easier than moving everything over. But next year, she's actually in the budget fully. So that person is sitting there in the other budget. So that's the main reason why we have an offset of that much money.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So that 99,000 is basically one person.

[R16463-287] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (elected at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Mary Henry: Salaries and benefits plus salaries and benefits wise. We had budgeted for a family plan in one of those positions, and it's not. Again, it all depends on who's sitting in the seat at the time.
TEXT> Can I may I just get some clarification? You're saying that this out of district coordinator. Is not in this budget this year because they service only Claremont students?
NEXT> Mary Henry: They were at the beginning of the year because we had someone that was in that position that was different.

[R16463-296] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-04-10
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And so there are out of district placements that are in unity as well.
TEXT> Oh no I don't think unity has any. No. But she does other things other than just out of district. She works with kids on a regular basis.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: For further clarification. This this is a position that I you know, we at the very beginning of the year, it was that changeover. So that's why Mary saying kept

[R16463-432] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (elected at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Chris Pratt: I don't mind people forget my name.
TEXT> Okay. So that man over there did bring forward an important  amendment and the policy subcommittee, the remaining members on that committee did review it with him. And we are bringing it to the full board for revision.  It's not an adoption. It doesn't need to, to readings because it's already in place. Here it is.  And so we are recommending this revision, the addition to this background investigation and criminal history records check to include anyone who is classified as an offender against children to keep them off of school grounds and any place there is a school sponsored event? Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are you looking for feedback at this point? Yes. Okay. So I've got two, two issues with this in this place. We had a board, not a board member, a

[R16463-440] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (elected at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I think I I'm not objecting to the content. I just think we're attaching it to the wrong policy.
TEXT> Well, the s a level does not have policies under students because we really don't have I know students. So in section category J. We really don't have any policies at all. And that's not to say we shouldn't. I mean, we can't.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But then I would say I would, I would name it something else then and, and call it receipt and use of sex offender registry information.

[R16463-445] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (elected at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: But this.
TEXT> Is the reason, the reason we. Yeah. The reason we did this and in bringing it forward for revision is for expediency. We're really recommending that each of the local districts deal with this policy for anyone who was classified as an offender against children, and it's already in the Claremont policy. I'm saying yeah, right. But this was to cover anything that may occur until do you have the year that that policy.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To 2017?

[R16463-448] Rocco Ruggeri | Unity School Board Member; elected SAU 6 Board Vice Chair at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Okay. So that's something that the Claremont Policy Subcommittee can look at. And if unity is also looking to do that, your policy. Yes.
TEXT> I was just going to add a comment. We just approved the changes that were proposed to the unity policy, and we added to the title restrictions on offenders against children in the title. So it's that's how we did it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[R16463-450] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (elected at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> Just and we have it didn't come across on this copy but we have it with a slash background investigation criminal history records check slash restrictions on offenders against children. And I hear what you're saying, Frank. I understand that in terms of it being under policy J. This was for the SA to cover anything.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so where where would this happen. So there's there's a gap somewhere. So where is the gap. Where's the gap. Where does it happen.

[R16463-458] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (elected at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Chris Pratt: like this year we had a few community meetings and stuff like that we didn't have at the high school. We have it, like you said, at the opera House or something, that same because it's a school sponsored event. They would not be allowed.
TEXT> It's not only where  students are, it's for any event that is sponsored in this case by.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's in that's in jail. I f.

[R16463-463] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Member (SAU 6 Board) | 2025-04-10
PREV> Chris Pratt: So you're saying put it someplace else. If people are looking for something, they find it because they're never going to look in background checks for teachers. Yeah. Yeah.
TEXT> I know J. You know, the J indicates that students, but, I'm just saying the language is here.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Or in the policy that you said it's.

[R16477-8] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: purchasing school store items or the lack of access to Stevens School Pride apparel. I have talked to many seniors this year who don't own one Stevens High School T-shirt sweatshirt. And do feel part of something. You kind of need to have that sweatshirt.
TEXT> By empowering students to create and sell and take pride in this merchandise. We're not only fostering entrepreneurship skills, but we are promoting school spirit and accessibility for all.  Accepting this grant will in eight will enable  the tech to provide students with tangible, industry relevant skills and enhance the entrepreneurship program that it definitely needs,  and it will strengthen our school community. School community. I urge the board to approve this request and thank you for your consideration.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[R16477-46] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mary Henry: And we could open up an account specifically for that if it's going to be busy enough.
TEXT> But when I see is yes, it is. You know, we don't want to be making a huge profit. That's not really what the class is about. It's more like when the, when the eighth graders came for the  for the eighth grade transition night to them to the high school.  There was about 40 students there, 40 families, 40 total people there, you know, maybe 20 kids. And I thought we could get more people here if it was. Hey, come here and get a free t shirt. You know where it says class of blank on the back of it? So you know. Yes. You might not be able to afford it, but come see the presentation. Get this shirt, you know, and just kind of do it that way. To where. Yes, we're making money to kind of, you know, keep it going.  But there's also ways of just promoting and getting the, you know, getting the t shirts and stuff in the hands of students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.

[R16477-58] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: such a short time. It's a wonderful time for the kids to be recognized and and have some food and, you know, they appreciate it. And I appreciate Mrs. Harrington, you know, building that as she has in such a short time. Moving on to.
TEXT> The high school. Some of the professional development that's coming up is that the training will be later this month, in April. And that's,  that that training there will be what they actually need to do in regards to,  getting re-accredited through the ASP. They also  have a crisis management for school based incidents.  For key decision making,  this is a tuition free course. It is designed for school administrators, safety and security personnel, first responders, and community stakeholders. The training focuses on collaboration and planning and preparation for school based incidents.  Participants will learn all hazard planning, bullying ability and threat assessment and will engage in scenario based exercise to improve crisis response and recovery. They want middle school. School counselors are delivering a mental health curriculum using a program called S.O.S. Signs of Suicide. One program teaches students about the difficult topics and encourages them to seek help. It will be delivered during the students  healthy way for sixth grade, as well as during  saw time for the seventh and eighth graders, for Maple Ave. They had in February they had their winter concert. Grades K through one and grades two and three. They also had in March,  an art show for grades K-5, and they had over 439 attendees. Wow. For their for their March arch. And also in March, they had their spelling bee for grades three, four and five. So there was a lot of great stuff going in there.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And currently, the enrollment at Maple School is up to 261. Did not. Recently, they held a math family engagement evening focused on practice and math skills through activities that

[R16477-59] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: an art show for grades K-5, and they had over 439 attendees. Wow. For their for their March arch. And also in March, they had their spelling bee for grades three, four and five. So there was a lot of great stuff going in there.
TEXT> And currently, the enrollment at Maple School is up to 261. Did not. Recently, they held a math family engagement evening focused on practice and math skills through activities that could be done at home. And, there are also eagerly awaiting their book blast delivery and does not read. Raised over $22,000 for students books. So designers doing a lot of great stuff there as well. Bluff. We've had some changes there.  Following the recent administrative changes that Sue six administration is temporarily covering duties at Bluff Elementary myself, along with central office administrators such as,  Mr. McCosker, Mr. Kosky, Miss Henry and myself. We're covering for a short time, so there was always administrative present at the school.  We are. I'm proud to announce that we have an interim principal there until the end of the year. Some of you may know, Dale, he was, the principal there prior to Miss Christine Baker. And so he's back there. The faculty and staff are very happy to have him back. He's happy to be back.  I'm happy for you back. And we're all happy that, you know, he he was willing to come back.  I don't think much has changed since he's been there, but we're very pleased to have him back,  at the helm.  And currently, that position is post. We're will be conducting a full  search for the next principal. And so  we'll keep you posted on that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That's pretty much it for the monthly report, as always. It's it's online. You can read it. And there's a lot more information in there. Any guides to current enrollment

[R16477-62] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: I have a question or comment. How is our truancy officer, our new truant officer working out? That's my first question.
TEXT> Yeah. So a new truancy Oscar  officer.  Scott Maple,  for those of you who don't know,  Scott is a alumni of Stevens High School.  He moved back into the area. He  his prior experience as a police officer, a detective.  He was in the military police. Wealth of experience. So we're very glad to have him on board.  He's very visible. He's on all the schools on a regular basis. I've heard nothing but great things from the  administration on how accessible he is.  He's already met with many, many families  establishing relationships with with him.  As you can know, he's very busy based on a true and see numbers. But I think it's it's been positive all along. This time with the truancy officer. They're easily can be contacted through our in district radios. He's  his main home base. Is the office as you still as you walk in there and stuff. So it's just been going really great. He's very accessible. He's very knowledgeable.  He has the skills to really,  work with administrators, teachers and students. So, we look forward to him continue to  use his experience to help us move forward in regards to,  working with truancy.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins?

[R16477-68] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: data in regards to his response and what he's doing. So that's something we'll be able to share with the board down the road. How many visits he had with the main issues. So we're excited to move forward with with that data as well.
TEXT> I just had one other question or I guess a request.  It looks like we're still struggling with attendance and truancy. And  later on in the meeting, we're going to be  looking at the instructional coaches update. And there is some evidence there that  these coaches are being pulled into classrooms to act as a substitute teacher.  Is there any way we could get data on teacher absences? You know, oftentimes students student absences or an indication of engagement and commitment. And so I'm just curious whether or not we can see what's going on with the staff and if that will help us take the temperature a little bit as well.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Absolutely.

[R16477-86] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Julie Spence: So.
TEXT> So when the opportunity comes, because there's going to be a lot of people ready  or kind of working at this, we need to be ready. We need to make sure we have the numbers. We need to make sure of figuring out what we need to do. So that's what we need to do is be ready. So with the shrub report  is a consulting company that we've been working with  pretty much since I started to. They are trying to create the best experience at a high school student can have.  And part of that is creating these career pathways. So if you go in as a freshman and you know and who knows, a lot of freshmen might not know what they want to do. But if you know,  I want to be a plumber or I want to be a teacher,  we want to create the best experience at the high school possible so that the electives, the math credits, that you're taking a line to be the best person when you're ready to kind of enter the world, enter college or the trade that you're taking, meaning meaningful classes at the high school.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And at the tech. So in my counseling background, you know, and working with the shrub, this is the 16 career clusters that any job that you can think of

[R16477-87] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: the high school possible so that the electives, the math credits, that you're taking a line to be the best person when you're ready to kind of enter the world, enter college or the trade that you're taking, meaning meaningful classes at the high school.
TEXT> And at the tech.  So in my counseling background, you know, and working with the shrub, this is the  16 career clusters that any job that you can think of fits into one of these clusters. So as a freshman, you might not know that you want to be a teacher, but you want to know you want to work with kids or you like to work with people. So you kind of fall into one of these, one of these career clusters.  It's good to know what you don't like either.  So it's good to test things out and try different clusters and say, I don't really like that before you start spending your own money kind of doing, you know that. So these are the 16 career clusters. Throughout the next few slides, you're going to keep seeing this one. But I wanted to build on it. So  so these are the 16 career clusters. So here at the tech right now we have we are in six career clusters. Okay. So we have six of these. So when you think of pathways for students here at the Tech Center now they might not be able to we might not be able to fulfill their passion or their career pathways with only having six of these.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: It's great to fulfill six of them. But when you look at it, six out of 16, we're missing a big chunk. You know, a chunk for students. So in

[R16477-88] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: So we have six of these. So when you think of pathways for students here at the Tech Center now they might not be able to we might not be able to fulfill their passion or their career pathways with only having six of these.
TEXT> It's great to fulfill six of them.  But when you look at it, six out of 16, we're missing a big chunk. You know, a chunk for students. So in red, keep thinking that that is Claremont.  So then, because of our region ten agreement, students can go to Newport.  And Newport students can come here. So it's almost like students in Newport and Claremont have two tech centers to choose from, which is awesome. It doesn't happen in the state often, so we're in a good area where we can kind of  work with each other really well.  So when you look at Newport, all of a sudden you see that there is 12 career clusters that we are fulfilling at a 16.  These that are kind of like kind of highlighted is the same,  the same,  program. It just fits into different career clusters depending on what you do in that section.  So when you look at this between Claremont and Newport, we fit into 12 of the 16 clusters, which is really amazing that we can kind of work together.  With our new renovation,  we are looking into having  now we fulfill,  14 had a career clusters, and we're only missing these two.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So we went from 6 to 12, you know, to 14. So when we really think about working with the s Reb, what we can do for career pathways for

[R16477-89] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: Claremont and Newport, we fit into 12 of the 16 clusters, which is really amazing that we can kind of work together. With our new renovation, we are looking into having now we fulfill, 14 had a career clusters, and we're only missing these two.
TEXT> So we went from 6 to 12, you know, to 14. So when we really think about working with the s Reb, what we can do for career pathways for students. This is really showing that we have this huge umbrella of all these different things that students can kind of,  pick and choose and see what they, what they want. So that's kind of that's kind of their.
NEXT> Jay Doherty: Thank you. Michel. I'm going to step back just one second. We're a little singer, as Michelle pointed out. I'm Jade already. Julie Spence. We're both architects there. We have

[R16477-100] Julie Spence | Project Architect, Lavallee Brensinger Architects (SRVRTC renovation f | 2025-04-16
PREV> Julie Spence: you could you could probably fit small for small lifts for, small, motorcycles or ATVs or, snowmobile. Kind of. This is the kind of repair that we're talking about or lawnmowers, that kind of thing you'd need to update, have an emergency, all the emergency.
TEXT> I wash and shower and all of that kind of stuff brought into the space.  Some storage, an office, a toilet room. And there would probably be an air compressor  storage, and then a nice classroom adjacent to that visual communications.  We looked at using the preschool space  or what was originally the CTE education space.  And with this, we were talking about providing restrooms for the public so that could be shared with the restaurant. And how this would lay out is that you would have  would push back the best view that's on the other side of the building, so that guests could come in to either the restaurant or into this studio space without having to enter the rest of the building. The studio space could be used for this meeting,  or  during the day, be used by CTE students to set up  cameras and scenes that they would be either filming or photographing, and then they would have a computer lab that they would be doing editing. So this would be  all within this space. In the second floor, Michelle talked about law and safety being a program that we would have upstairs. We would co-locate it with the medical assisting that they're already teaching and education, and it would be sort of a service cluster.  All the service industry, cluster law and safety would have a flexible classroom. It's a little bit bigger than a regular classroom.
NEXT> Julie Spence: Have chairs and desks. They could move aside in order to do simulations in the same space, and it would be adjacent to a science type, small science type lab

[R16477-106] Julie Spence | Project Architect, Lavallee Brensinger Architects (SRVRTC renovation f | 2025-04-16
PREV> Julie Spence: date 3D printing, 3D more engineering, more high tech kind of room, and kind of retire the grinding room because it's not really relevant to their park is saying that's not really teaching them what they need to know to get out into the workforce.
TEXT> Updating some finishes, retiring some older equipment and bringing in some new carpentry was originally designed as a building construction, which is why they have a huge  overhead door. They were building houses in there.  Carpentry is a little bit different. They're building smaller things and they need more equipment to build those smaller things. So, they need to replace the dust collection system that's there is not working. So we need to provide some additional equipment in order to transition it from that building construction to carpentry. And then plumbing and heating.  Just need they don't have proper exhausts for their welding  booths right now.  It's not working correctly. So we'd like to update that. But that is a dual use  machine tool also uses those welding  booths. And so we're trying to be conservative. We're not trying to put welding booths everywhere. Let's just get the ones that we have working. So improve security and supervision.  Like I said, when you come in the front door, the lobby right now  on that orange square, you come in and before you get to the administration, you're mingling with students. So what we would like to do is replace the bathrooms that are adjacent to the lobby and have a door right in there, have people a situation where people can be checked in with security before they enter the rest of the building.
NEXT> Julie Spence: It requires some modification to the admin space, just to be able to be able to provide the same number of toilet fixtures and provide toilets over there. But, with

[R16477-141] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: So it was based on needs assessment.
TEXT> Oh yeah. It was it was based on the report saying, you know the Cadillac plan would be yeah, we're going to have fire safety. We're going to have. But we also we trimmed it back and saying, okay, we can have multiple programs but in one pathway, but it's not necessarily going to bring new students in because those same students who take fire safety would also take medical assistance. So if you looked at that list, we were trying to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Expand on.

[R16477-162] Jay Doherty | Principal, Lavallee Brensinger Architects (SRVRTC renovation feasibili | 2025-04-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> One of the next parts would be phasing. Exactly what you're saying. It would probably be a little over a year.  It isn't a huge project, but making sure we have students safe during construction is a top priority. We'd look at. Yes, definitely. We'd phase it out with you. Yes.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And Newport just did it. So it's really nice for them to be so close to say, how did you do it? How did it? How did it work out?

[R16477-163] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Jay Doherty: be phasing. Exactly what you're saying. It would probably be a little over a year. It isn't a huge project, but making sure we have students safe during construction is a top priority. We'd look at. Yes, definitely. We'd phase it out with you. Yes.
TEXT> And Newport just did it. So it's really nice for them to be so close to say, how did you do it? How did it? How did it work out? And they had students in there and they just they kind of went through the same thing.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And and I know, I know, it's very doable while schools in session because I think this will probably be at least the fifth school project or renovation or construction

[R16477-177] Bonnie Miles | Former School Board Member; Visioning Committee member (public comment | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Oh, no. Oh, Yes. You. Are you okay? Might as well. On the renovation project. Yeah, sure.
TEXT> Barney Miles. Was on the school board and I was on this committee, and I'm still on the visioning committee. And I remember when we met with Schramm, there were meetings, virtual meetings, and there were so many careers and different types of jobs and brackets of pages and pages and charts. I couldn't believe how many jobs were out there. And they helped us in deciding what would be good, what the future is going to bring. And we all put our $0.02 in, obviously. And so I was very pleased,  pleased without that. But with that, but also the fact that mentioning the community, it's not just our community, it's the communities around here and all the people that will be taking these classes.  And I don't know the average number of how much more you're going to make if you go to the tech center and if you or if you just got hired by somebody. But if you take that one person and they're going to make that much more money every year times 50 years in their life, well, you multiply that times the number of students that can come through here,  that that's more money for all the communities to spend their money. And it's just it's it's a win win  all the way. And yeah, it sounds like a lot of money, but, I think we can all work with this and and I'm certainly in favor of it all the way.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you, Miss Moss.

[R16477-179] John Lambert | Public commenter, Charlestown; Visioning Committee member (as announce | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, Miss Moss.
TEXT> I'm John Lambert, I'm from Charlestown, but I was born and work in  Claremont and. Also on the Vision Committee. I want to congratulate. What. A great plan this is. And it's a culmination of a lot of work that we all had on the Vision Committee.  And it it's we had input from teachers, from from students, from industry, from business, from engineers and budgets, and they all have to factor into it. So what does it melt down? It isn't exactly what we looked at, but it's practically what the solution should be. Your job now. And and also I'm on advisory board of the Newport School and Automotive program. Just got revised and they they went out to the public to get that budget past several years in a row. And finally, Jennifer Polansky, with all her enthusiasm similar to Michelle's youthful exuberance, they got the budget passed.  And and what a great reward. And and all I can say is, if you adopt, if you consider this as a future plan, please go out to the public and start giving the awareness and reasoning and just don't blindside them month before. It's a big selling job, and that's what really helped that one pass in Newport.  And, you know, some wealthy people stepped up and made some larger contributions to help make it come.
NEXT> John Lambert: You also got to tell them it's about the repairs in the building that's going to be needed that are now 80% cover. And that was a big portion of

[R16477-183] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: the the test scores from those buildings. The middle school coach, Courtney Steele, is also working with fifth grade elementary students creating a Bridge Advanced math program. We were trying to prep kids to eventually develop into an advanced math class at the middle school.
TEXT> At this point, there's not enough students for a full class. Looks like it's going to take the form  of extra,  more advanced math work during their win time or their academic support time. So instead of receiving academic support, it would be more of an extension or enrichment for math. Eventually the idea of moving them along  as these students are showing some affinity for understanding math. So, these are those pie charts that I was referring to. So push in services, going into classrooms, academic. Resource room support. Coaching, team meetings, PLC meetings. Those are all working directly with teachers. The coaches meet themselves together once a week  for about an hour.  They coordinate their work. They talk about what teachers are needing and how they're meeting those needs. And then there's a few other miscellaneous things in there. SLT is senior leadership team. Secondary leadership team.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What's plc.

[R16477-185] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: What's plc.
TEXT> Professional learning community. So it's the math teachers all meet together or the English teachers all together. Yeah. So. Oh, here we go. There's the high school coaches, teacher sheets. She individual meetings, gossip, breaks it out into spontaneous meetings. I'm not sure what the big difference is. Their classroom observations. Two meetings are faculty meetings, meeting with the other coaches, and the other piece here. See. This a little bit more directly helping students one on one or in small groups than the middle school coach does. So middle school coach also does some data analysis and she put these tracks together of benchmarks. So this are pre assessments done before the class in the fall mid-year assessments in LA. So we have this telephone over here. Above grade level before the course started mid-year above the grade level. Seeing some growth here before school before school started after this group was dropping.  Oh, that's a little, little distressing. And then we have bracelets below grade level much higher than beginning of the year, much lower at the middle. So we're moving kids from below grade level up to that on grade level section, but they're not quite up to speed.
NEXT> Mike Koski: They're. Does that make sense? So here's our students beginning of the year. Yeah. Test. We have fewer below grade level in the mid-year. This is a little bit backwards

[R16477-188] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: So still below grade level.
TEXT> There's still a time that are below grade. But but some of them are moving into this on grade level area. But there's still a huge a huge swath of students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So in in grade six yes, the 8585 was the pre assessment at the beginning of the year. Yes. That was the number of students who were below grade level.

[R16477-189] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: There's still a time that are below grade. But but some of them are moving into this on grade level area. But there's still a huge a huge swath of students.
TEXT> So in in grade six yes, the 8585 was the pre assessment at the beginning of the year. Yes. That was the number of students who were below grade level.  And and  now  now that's moved to 61 by mid year. Correct. Okay. So if I use that same analysis if I look at number Abbott, the top, the four. Oh there were only  four of them were above. And now ten have moved into being above. Yes. Okay. Got it. Okay okay.
NEXT> Mike Koski: The students are moving but we're not. Yeah. Yeah.

[R16477-190] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: by mid year. Correct. Okay. So if I use that same analysis if I look at number Abbott, the top, the four. Oh there were only four of them were above. And now ten have moved into being above. Yes. Okay. Got it. Okay okay.
TEXT> The students are moving but we're not. Yeah. Yeah.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So. Right. And so that first is kind of the opposite of what the the bottom group was.

[R16477-198] Unidentified | School board member (clarifying question split across three clusters;  | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: You're seeing. Right. But the seventh grade needs work.
TEXT> So these are. Actual. Student numbers, not percents.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I'm sorry. They are percents. Not my graph. All right, all right.

[R16477-212] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Hey, this is math, right? We've got it. Right.
TEXT> So this is the first year of a math program that is addressing the standards at the appropriate grade level. And, so we're we're yes, we're challenging students in ways they haven't been challenged before. We've also challenged our teachers with a new program and how to implement that. Right. If we go back to English, I mean, these aren't these are things to celebrate necessarily, but English is in its second year implementation and we see much better, right? Relatively much better results.  But the first year of implementation is is always rough.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So this is the new math curriculum, correct.

[R16477-264] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: stop learning, right. To do the measuring. We're already measuring it. Elementary. With winter benchmark with I ready and and so we add in another state level measuring test and and so we the thought was we're losing too many to many teaching days testing.
TEXT> So if I can ask a question about coaching, having some experience with working with coaches and being working with teachers in classrooms, I'm wondering about the number of meetings that the coaches are attending as opposed to,  I mean, the larger meetings, team meetings, PLC meetings, miscellaneous meetings, parent meetings, virtual versus the number of times they're actually sitting individually with teachers, assessing and reviewing the data as it relates to that, classrooms,  that classroom, teachers, students. And then how do we move the bar, so to speak. So I'm wondering, are we spreading our coaches to thin across the day in terms of the things we're asking them to do? In addition to the subbing, which was brought up earlier, but administrative collaborations, administrative team meetings,  outside vendor meetings. I'm wondering if we're losing an opportunity  for coaches to be working with teachers, with the data, with the students currently in front of.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Obviously if they're doing things other than that then you could say you're losing that time. But both coaches have been involved. Their bender meetings are with, a company, an

[R16477-273] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Functioning as a substitute teacher.
TEXT> I wouldn't say that. I would say the coach is is coaching and teaching the students, but the teacher wouldn't benefit from that. Yeah, right.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And that's the purpose of our coaches is to benefit the teacher's instructional toolbox, the analysis of data.

[R16477-285] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: to work better, what needs to change to. I think Arlene's point and my biggest fear is, is mission creep. And I think Arlene was alluding to that as well as, spreading thin, meaning we really wanted these coaches in the classroom and improving instruction.
TEXT> I think the way we we best measure this is,  look at the students. We're going to have to fine tune it, but look at the students of the teachers who've been under coaching for several years. We do have a decent amount of turnover in the district. So this is probably too broad a brush to analyze the coaching success with. But we should be able to identify students and teachers that have had the benefit of that coaching practice.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And the and are, are are the number of teachers that are willing to have coaches coming into the room. Is that getting larger? Is there trust building or is

[R16477-303] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: I don't think yeah. It's not really a program for individual students or for parents. It's really to improve instruction among the teachers.
TEXT> It's through the teachers. So they become better instructors  that go that the students benefit from. It's it's not like a okay.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I'm no.

[R16477-310] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: On whatever you're doing here, whatever you're evaluating. I'd like to see where he stands.
TEXT> Yeah. So, parents can can get those grades. So this is interim SAT scores. Parents will have access to those grades through that website and could see how their  their child did on the test.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Okay. Can we publicize that? Because I don't know what the website is I don't know.

[R16477-334] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: will ensure that each and every student reaches and exceeds expected academic outcomes by focusing on early literacy and numeracy and raising graduation rates. So you can see within that we have a lot of the, you know, how is it going to be measured.
TEXT> And so it gives the, the the percentage for K-2. It's really focused on the early elementary because we all agreed go looking at the strategic plan. The earlier we catch them, the bigger difference in the domino effect it's going to be have moving forward. So if you look on this just this one subcommittee who we have,  we have assistant superintendent, elementary principal, two elementary principals, a board member, the assistant director of student services, a secondary AP principal,  a special ed teacher, a title one teacher and a teacher leader. So that's just on this one subcommittee. So it just shows you the amount of work and the attention that we're placing on the. Writing, the strategic plan. The second one subcommittee is staff effectiveness. C six will develop and retain highly effective teachers who see you six as a place where they are valued and can thrive and have positive impact. And once again, you have the  below that. How are we going to measure this once we have it in place? So this subcommittee, it's a little less, but it's a it's well represented in these subcommittees where we put together based on we wanted a well-rounded subcommittee who can really add to the conversation, add to what we need to do.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So you have on here you have the director of human resources, elementary principal, a board member, give a teacher leader in the high school, which is assistant, the current

[R16477-337] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: week. And the surveys are is just gaining that baseline data in regards to, what we want to know from, from the different subject, what do we want to know from the the faculty group? What do we want to know from the community group.
TEXT> What do we want to know from the student group? And so these are so I wanted to share with you what that looks like and what some of the questions are that. We're. Looking at. So if you look at. Mainly subcommittee. So that.
NEXT> Mike Koski: It's probably not logged in.

[R16477-340] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: in variations in school representation. So with this said, it's only been out for a few days. I think we sent it out over the weekend and Saturday. So it always been out there for a short time. What does this telling us is that?
TEXT> Students are really voicing and taking the time to take the survey, and that's huge for us. If we if we wanted any group to really be responding, it's students because that means they're invested. They, they, they want to have a voice. So that's some of the work we've been doing as we enter phase two with just the initial, once we have this data in this information back, then we'll really get into, focusing in on with the information we have. Is that telling us in regards to moving forward and continue to develop and push the strategic plan out? So but the most important thing is that we want everyone to have a voice. We're asking the relevant questions. It's just not a plan. Because I've been a part of many districts in the past where we've done the work for the strategic plan, and then we're asking the same people who did the street plan to actually incorporate and follow up. And with way schools are, and how busy education is unintentionally always falls by the wayside. So all that time energy spent on a strategic plan becomes something that's there in theory and not practice. So we're really excited about the progress we're making in a short time in getting this implemented throughout the district. So people when we talk about it, they're invested in it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: They know what the goals are. They know how we're going to measure it. So that's phase two where we are right now. We still have a lot of work

[R16477-345] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: So this is action item.
TEXT> For this, this this is going to help us create our action steps to meet the the measurables that we have. We just don't want to randomly create the the action steps. We want to get information from students and stuff. So they're the action steps based on the data we have and the questions that we asked, rather than just saying, well, we think this is a this is a good action. Remember, we always want this to be, you know, measure everything needs to be measurable. If it's not measurable, it's really hard to move forward.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So if to add to what you're saying rather than using anecdotal data, oh, we have kids who are feeling this way. This is what they're telling us. We're actually

[R16477-350] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any other questions.
TEXT> And I like to continue to report out in the progress once we get all this data from the surveys and stuff. I think that's when it really gets exciting, because then we can share, say, this is what the students say, this is what the parents say, and this is how we feel that we can create the action steps to meet our goals moving forward. I'm just excited about it. Period. In regards to we finally have a plan, and now we're going to put it in place and we're going to use that plan to drive all the decisions that we make. Moving saw six forward, and it's a very inclusive plan. It's a very inclusive process and that's what we wanted from day one. When we talked about, you know, changing how we do business in Sussex. So I'm very excited lately and I appreciate all the time and the work that board members, parents, community members, administration, everybody is involved. As busy as we are, we still make time to go to those meetings.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Thank you very much.

[R16477-356] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Well, we have that. We have 1500 we can take from our line item. Correct?
TEXT> Right. I mean, the bottom line budget right now is in a deficit situation. But I'm going to be honest with you, this is important.  You know, I'm not turning away students items that they need. And I think this is something that teachers need. I know we look out for students, but this is the one time in the year that we look out for our staff. And I think it's important to do it even though we're in a deficit. I, I just think that 1500, in the overall scheme of things, yes, you have money in your line items,  staff do a lot day in.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And day out. I'll make a motion and then we can have a quick discussion. I'd like to make a motion for 15 up to $1,500 be appropriated for the

[R16477-403] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: You know already.
TEXT> I'm not going to read them all. Summarize them. So our main goals for the for the meeting were to debrief last year's budget process,  development of a budget timeline, including DRA deadlines to get into the year.  Timeline for expanding health insurance options would be effective of lowering costs. Also introducing HSA accounts. And that's we've actually passed the administration of doing that. We we talked about Mary again, summarize recent findings from the auditors, and we talked about, the deficit that you referred to, just referred to. And, and most of that being, in special ed costs at this time. And Mr. McCusker reminded us,  that we went into the process  approximately $1 million short and then that it showed up at the end. Is that accurate? Right. So, And. And then we talked about the newly acquired Maple Avenue property, and the students will be located there. And and again, redundant what you talked about tonight and, we agreed to bring to the school board meeting a motion to follow all allow up to 50,000 from the special capital funds. We did.  And then we talked about, current fiscal fiscal issues  and the audits, and we talked about the need for policies that are coming out of the audits to be developed. And then we talked about health care options, and we're going to be having a. 30th to us.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We have a slate of meetings.

[R16477-456] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague seconds. Any discussion? Seeing none. All in favor of adoption of policy a c a as revised AI I none opposed. Policy is adopted. We have a first read policy.
TEXT> The first read exhibit I which is policy g b. I'll get it in a minute. GB c d now you'll notice on this I call it the red line. Copy. It has highlights. The bottom of the first page you'll see New Hampshire School Board Association history and their revision notes. The committee met today. And we recognize the point that was made by Mr. Sprague at the meeting, that the initial purpose is in the wrong place, and we are looking at the JLIFI believe it is policy. So we are presenting this to you. Without this, we are  the, change that we would recommend would be to eliminate the highlighted portion that says purpose definitions, because that deals with anyone classified as an offender against children. And we're going to move that. We're going to look at that in relation to that student policy that we have. So this policy is updated from the policy that's currently in the Claremont School Board. And I believe this is considered the revision because we already have this policy. But it's outdated so to speak. So this is directly from the New Hampshire School Board Association sample policy manual. And what we do. After. Well, this is a revision. We would eliminate all of the highlighting and the footnotes and the disclaimers and the code descriptions. Even though we do put the codes in  on our policy.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So are we going to just do first read or are you interested in.

[R16530-60] Jill Chastenay | Youth & Government advisor / teacher, Stevens High School (self-identi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: That's great.
TEXT> And we do have former students that because of this program, they did get involved in different politics and different jobs involving, you know, related to politics. So it definitely has impacted their lives for the better.  And I definitely think  Aubrey has a career in politics, even if she's not sure yet.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anybody else?

[R16530-117] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair, Claremont School Board (presiding; Chair Heat | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mary Henry: Thank you everyone. Thank you.
TEXT> All right. We we're under. Our next item is item number four.  The presentation from the director of student Services, Mr. Costco.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Mr. Patron and the board members. I was sent a long list of questions, and so, it took me quite a bit of time last week and into this week

[R16530-120] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; SRVRTC Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Start with some questions?
TEXT> So I, I thank you for responding and giving us reading material ahead of time. I did read it. And,  I, I think that it I don't know  I don't know how others feel, but I don't think you need to go through it. However, I do have some questions that I think the public we need to talk about in public so that the information they might not get to ask to read all this stuff in the, public documents that are available through this report. Just it is out there on the SA website. And so they so the public is welcome to read this report if they want to know specifics.  I think one of the questions that I have been asked as a school board member is,  again, the process of identifying students who are special needs students. And,  and  I've heard the comments that it is an arbitrary process.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That that who, who makes the decisions about what services are provided. And, for me, I thought your report was pretty clear. I noticed that on page 12. On page

[R16530-121] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; SRVRTC Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: they want to know specifics. I think one of the questions that I have been asked as a school board member is, again, the process of identifying students who are special needs students. And, and I've heard the comments that it is an arbitrary process.
TEXT> That that who, who makes the decisions about what services are provided. And,  for me, I thought your report was pretty clear. I noticed that on page 12.  On page 12, it states pretty clearly that the all service decisions are made with the following in mind. Data and quality of disability and qualifying disability.  And so I think the public needs to understand that there is a process that you have to go through to when and your staff when a student is identified as potential,  that they have to follow the law and, and the criteria set out by the law for identification. And in this report, it does give  different schools. And how many students were  referred to special services valuation. Some were disqualified not meeting the standards and some were  so I thought that was pretty helpful in the report.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: And I, you know, probably for the for the good of the public, it's important to note that any school district, wherever you are, is by federal idea and then

[R16530-122] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: out by the law for identification. And in this report, it does give different schools. And how many students were referred to special services valuation. Some were disqualified not meeting the standards and some were so I thought that was pretty helpful in the report.
TEXT> And I, you know, probably for the for the good of the public, it's important to note that any school district, wherever you are,  is by federal idea and then by state standards,  required to evaluate or are required to go through a special ed referral process for any student who suspected of a disability,  ages two and a half through 22, up to 22. You know, and then the other part of that is, is we're not just responsible for students who attend Claremont school districts, but any students who reside in Claremont so they could be a homeschooled student if they're referred, they could be state placed on. If there are students, for example, a Claremont Christian Academy, we are responsible to evaluate them. If there's if there's a suspected,  we're responsible for any services for Claremont students at Riverview Charter School. So it's it's kind of a big process.  And then the other thing you did mention, and I think it's important to note, it's not a willy nilly process. It is an IEP team that doesn't evaluation a part of that team is and it depends on what suspected.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: But there's always a school psychologist. There has to be an expert who can speak to an area of disability that is that person, if they're suspected for speech and

[R16530-125] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: Called documentation.
TEXT> And duplicity. Yeah. You know. Yeah.  You know, so it's it's. And it never happens in a silo. It never happens in a vacuum. It is a team that is going through this process. The process by law, we have to from start to finish. We have 60 days to have it done. And then I should also mention that a part of that team is always the parent. A parent always has a seat at the table. They are valued team member.  And they're really the experts in the, in their child and that student. So, you know, it's sometimes it's a daunting process.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What are the things one of the questions that was submitted to you that you addressed in this and maybe for the public, you can answer the question. Sometimes during

[R16530-129] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: I think that's important to keep in mind.
TEXT> Right. So it's not just, you know, and so the work of special education should never happen in a silo. I mean, there are some cases where students are in self-contained rooms because they have moderate or severe disabilities. But for the rest of it, it's to help them access grade level curriculum, trying to get them to move along with their grade level peers.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: In the least restricted environment. I think to that point in Frank, I've heard me say before, you know, I think we do need to it's it's an individual education,

[R16530-135] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; SRVRTC Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: of that IEP way it's written in some cases, not just here, but ever places for out of compliance. Sometimes it's because the due diligence wasn't done to make sure that it reflects their current stage of where they are in the learning process, right.
TEXT> Just as a follow up to that, I think that,  the public in general,  doesn't have an understanding,  about the I what and I mean, I've learned this myself,  when an IEP is written,  is it is it enforced for the rest of that students life in school or  is it evaluated? Each year  our our services change and services evaluated each year?
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Yes. Yes and yes. So the referral process, let's say we candy is referred, we evaluate or we find are eligible that eligibility is good for three years. Okay, okay.

[R16530-148] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So they want to update it because it refers to see 24 on it.
TEXT> So one of the. One let me find that. So one of the things that we the beginning of the year, we started seeing this influx and stuff and we continue this ongoing conversation. One of the things is that if someone wants out of this replacement, we now have a process in place. But one of the first things we look at is like, and I had the conversation probably three weeks ago with a family saying, until your child can come to school in a regular basis, you know, and show that they can come to school, they can do it or asking so we know what working is or is not working. We're not going to go down that road. We're not going to spend taxpayers money to send you out of district placement if you're not going. That was part of the process.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What my my main concern is from my own experience. Teachers approaching me as the administrator and saying, I want this kid gone. No. And, and making sure that we've

[R16530-149] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: it or asking so we know what working is or is not working. We're not going to go down that road. We're not going to spend taxpayers money to send you out of district placement if you're not going. That was part of the process.
TEXT> What my my main concern is from my own experience.  Teachers approaching me as the administrator and saying,  I want this kid gone. No. And, and making sure that we've done FDA's we've done behavioral plans, we've been in contact with the parents. We've done all of that stuff before we even have that conversation. And,  I want to make sure that there is a process because one of the things about,  in talking to, about our deficit is that we want to make sure that, that we do everything possible. So this does not happen again. And so I think we really need to make sure  and I would like to see it in a presentation that plan that every school is using, every administrator is using. Before we even consider placing a kid out of district, I think I think the taxpayers are entitled to that because we have this tremendous overage. It's our fault as the board for a lack of oversight. I mean, it's pretty clear that's what the auditors told us.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I don't think the board can share all of it. I think you have to look at also, as we're finding along, there were a lot of processes that needed

[R16530-175] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: how we need to fix it. And it might be, you know, through many different means, right? Because we. Therapy could lead to physical therapy because of bites or muscle structures within the jar or something like that. It's a number of things where, right.
TEXT> You know, a speech pathologist may work with an autistic child about perspective taking, which is a huge part of the receptive language part of it. Right. Or those, you know, you've got students who have no filter. And so let's work on how to express,  what you're trying to say in a way that's not offensive or hurtful or so it's, it's huge.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Auditory processing or just not processing, but lack of, you know, hearing difficulties can lead to speech impediments and stuff. So it's it's it's given this. Title, but it's.

[R16530-179] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: Not as clear as it says speech and language. I mean, there's so many things in between that. Thank you.
TEXT> So, you already touched on this one. The an obligation to provide special evaluation or services to kids that are in private schools that are not Claremont residents. Could be both. Yeah, I. Worried about Claremont kids. Excuse me. I said if they're Claremont kids, I know we're responsible for them.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Any student attending a private school within your jurisdiction. Within any in any student attending Claremont Christian Academy, doesn't matter where they're from. If there is if there is a

[R16530-180] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: one. The an obligation to provide special evaluation or services to kids that are in private schools that are not Claremont residents. Could be both. Yeah, I. Worried about Claremont kids. Excuse me. I said if they're Claremont kids, I know we're responsible for them.
TEXT> Any student attending a private school within your jurisdiction. Within any in any student attending Claremont Christian Academy, doesn't matter where they're from. If there is if there is a referral, we are responsible to carry out that referral.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay.

[R16530-182] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> Any student doesn't matter.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To what extent are we required to provide services?

[R16530-185] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board ( | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mike McCosker: So if the parent keeps some of that depends because there's a whole and I'm really not.
TEXT> Because if it's. A Charlestown kid, isn't this a Charlestown distance?
NEXT> Mike McCosker: No, not if they are attending a private school in your jurisdiction. Right. I've had to do a lot of research on it this year. Frank, I, I'm if it's

[R16530-186] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because if it's. A Charlestown kid, isn't this a Charlestown distance?
TEXT> No, not if they are attending a private school in your jurisdiction. Right. I've had to do a lot of research on it this year. Frank, I,  I'm if it's a charter school kid, then yes, Charlestown is responsible. But in the private school, through the equitable service portion of the idea grant. Have to provide it. We have to provide a.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Service comes out of the grant funds.

[R16530-219] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mary Henry: Thank you. We completely.
TEXT> So I have another question. I paid 11. When you talk about  all schools using the same practices, and you indicate that what they do all have is a student assistance team and the how the teams meet to discuss needs. And there's usually a timeline in which they reconvene. Then the differences are. And what I've read here is that intervention strategies for regular Ed kids, what are we doing about that too?
NEXT> Mike McCosker: What number. Are you on?

[R16530-230] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: You know, we're meeting the the basic needs in the classroom. At tier one. We got tier two. You got to get a little more specialized. We that's what we were lacking because what was happening. We were going from tier one the tier three.
TEXT> It's like and now we have a curriculum and we have assessment so we can monitor student progress. But it's the tier two where we're not.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That's why we get into late Excel at the high school. More benchmarking, more data to show that, you know, because like I said, if you have the tier one

[R16530-235] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It's not like it's a two page document. So you're. It's fine.
TEXT> So one more question than a statement. So. So, I want to get back to what we're talking about with Mr. Patron and, the, you know, what I would call Mr. Haves, but not necessary,  services that we offer a suite of potential things the kid would benefit from.  To me, there's some danger there if we continue to be, generous. And this sets up a cycle of hiring people we don't need being held accountable in due process for services we're unable to deliver. If we can't find the people to do that. And  deadlines weren't able to keep. So you did acknowledge, Mr. McCosker, that that some inconsistencies do exist. And your response to my question and some additional, training might be necessary. And so I think that that's a priority for me as a board member to for a timetable on when  that consistency would happen among all of the different  stakeholders within the schools in the South. So make sure there is a very clear process and a and a real clear between the nice, the must have and the nice to have as far as what kids get. Getting back to what Mr. Peterson put.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So it's definitely that something we need to look at because it's like anything else. It's like when I can I mean, I wasn't here during SR, I can, I

[R16530-238] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I don't think special ed is the answer to to poverty. I think it's good tier one instruction. We've heard that. We've heard that that's why we're investing in coaches. That's where investing in curriculum, because it isn't about special. It's about good instruction.
TEXT> And so my my pushback is that we really want to have kids that are independent. And, and I think our intervention to this point, and I think Chris would agree, rather than instruction to just give the kid an IEP that's been that's been the intervention.  I would be interested in longitudinal and achievement behavioral data that justifies our special ed numbers. I'd also like to see the academic behavioral progress of students in placement. If they're there and we're not collecting data on them, their graduation rates, then the question becomes, are we is this therapeutic or is it containment? And I think there's a big difference between the two.  We don't care what happens in them. We just want them gone. As teachers have said to me,  again, this is the hard part. The more support in my opinion. And I've seen it, I've seen with my own daughter, and I've seen it with others, that the more interventions we give a kid, the more dependent upon those interventions they become.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: We used to call that learn dependency.

[R16530-240] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: We used to call that learn dependency.
TEXT> And so when they go off into the world, they can't they cannot function in the world of work, and they cannot function in the world of higher ed, because they're so used to everything being done, assisted or done for them. So I really think that the more as I said, they never learn adaptive academic and independent skills. And so that's my pushback on that. The goal is graduation.  And again, I'm concerned that that we don't talk about an exit out of special education. It's a continual thing that just keeps happening. Me the ultimate goal is to for students to not need an IEP, just be dependent on good instruction.  And again, getting back to  I've talked to a number of employers in town that are incredulous at the at the very poor skills that they're encountering with students and you know, and beyond math in following written instructions what I would call with it ness.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And that's the ability to self direct, to be to anticipate. And so that's a concern with our employers for kids that are graduating. Again, I don't accept poverty as

[R16530-241] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: again, getting back to I've talked to a number of employers in town that are incredulous at the at the very poor skills that they're encountering with students and you know, and beyond math in following written instructions what I would call with it ness.
TEXT> And that's the ability to self direct, to be to anticipate. And so that's a concern with our employers for kids that are graduating.  Again, I don't accept poverty as an excuse.  And so to say we're like this because our community is poor, not compelling. We've heard that before.  We know the answers is tier one instruction. So the only thing that, compares us to the rest of the state to compelling argument to me is that,  it demonstrates the inadequacy of state aid, the fact that we're poor here and expected to perform like Merrimack County does. And so.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I agree, I would look at it is we don't want to use poverty and excuse, but it is a reality.

[R16530-245] Frank Sprague | School Board Member; Finance Committee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: know, we are where we are because it's poverty. You know, I think we are where we are because that's the reality of what we're in, whether they're poor or not. We're going to give them a and we want to do what we can.
TEXT> They're sending us the best kids they have is what we used to say.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. And I think and I think we're all we're all in agreement with that statement. So I think, you know, I don't think there's much pushback here. I think,

[R16530-249] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mary Henry: I and I think that is our goal as well.
TEXT> And can I just add one more thing and I'm not I, I didn't put we didn't put that in there as an excuse. But this explains why we have higher rates of referral not an excuse. We still  our goal is to educate the student thoroughly. That's our task.  But in pockets with higher poverty you have pockets of higher need.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, we're hoping, I think, through our investments with our teachers and in the curriculum and again with some with the, strong people in charge of our buildings, that this

[R16530-254] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair, Claremont School Board (presiding; Chair Heat | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: It might be helpful to between 500 and 4.
TEXT> And so it is an identifier students with special needs a 504 is a non identified students usually.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Usually. Find an IEP tied to specific learning 504 is something that can affect their their day every day life altering throughout the day. They don't have you know you

[R16530-261] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. All right. Thank you.
TEXT> If I may, I hear a lot about what's happening with different levels, but I'm and not but and I would really like to see us focus on catching them when they're really young. Everything I've ever read and everything I've been involved in is if we engage kids at a young age, give them developmentally appropriate  opportunities, preschool, all of that RTI, starting at a young age, they have a better chance of succeeding.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yes. Quality preschool right now we have you know, it's in you know, K elementary is is targeted in our strategic plan because it is that important.

[R16530-265] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair, Claremont School Board (presiding; Chair Heat | 2025-05-07
PREV> Chris Pratt: keep us on the same page and tackling all these different, conversations and topics that we had, you know, is it's reflected on our action plan, want to keep moving forward and not settle for anything less than, you know, what we need to do?
TEXT> And I think, you know, speaking from experience and working in as a clinician in the school for three years, 20 years ago. But, a lot of the clinicians will push in and do a group in the classroom  or, you know, pull, you know, some of us not identified be in that group. And you'd see, oh, you know, they may not be identified, but they're here in the group and they're benefiting from what we're doing is fair speech or OT or, you know, so you're pushing to the class this the clinicians are pushing into the class, I think more than just that one student are getting the benefit of what they're they're teaching or training. So.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Which given our special ed rates is probably fairly efficient. Right.

[R16530-335] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Of further conversation. All those in favor opposed? Thank you.
TEXT> JLF is a priority required by law. It is reporting child abuse or neglect. And it is a revision to the policy that we currently have. And the revision that they put in place was after consultation with representatives of DC wife and the Granite State Children's Alliance to improve reporting and record requirements. And there is a form that goes with this that's cited in this policy. And we do use that form currently in Claremont.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So the revisions are just to, acknowledge what we're already currently doing.

[R16530-345] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: All those in favor. I opposed?
TEXT> Okay, the next one is policy g b. EBB.  And what  our policy subcommittee did was we read through the current policy and we added numbers 12 and 13. And this is employee student relations. And there is another change. We met this afternoon on number 13. If you would annotate, staff members shall not socialize with students outside of school on social networking websites. Your copy is strongly discouraged and the committee today decided that was not strong enough. So the two highlighted numbers 12 and 13 are the additions to this policy. So we're looking for a revision.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm laughing for a really good reason on that one.

[R16530-355] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: That so? It's so 13. It says our. It doesn't say strongly discouraged. It says.
TEXT> Now it should. It should say staff members shall not. Yes. Socialize with students outside of school on social networking websites. The committee felt it needed to be a little bit more forceful.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I agree.

[R16530-372] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Further discussion. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed?
TEXT> Okay. The next one is this is the last one  for tonight. Policy. JLIF it's the receipt and use of sex offender registry information. The section that is highlighted  in yellow at the beginning is the recommended addendum proposed by Superintendent Pratt. And when we met as an saw, it was suggested that this policy would be a better location for this registered sex offender definition restrictions enforcements. And basically it says any offender against children is prohibited from any school property and from entering school grounds and from, events.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Events that might be held off school property, but still a school event.

[R16530-428] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; SRVRTC Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Next is the sugar. Oh sorry. Any questions for Arlene before? Next is the sugar River Technical Center subcommittee.
TEXT> Yes. Our next meeting is, Wednesday, May 14th at 330 at the Tech Center. This is a public meeting. We will be just updating where we stand on the visioning subcommittee, where we want to go forward. And just the side an additional side note on Friday, May 16th at the sugar River Technical High School is the students of the year luncheon at the Teal Lantern at 12 to recognize the students of the the month in the year.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. With that announcing a motion to move into nonpublic.

[R16530-488] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: for the survey, for example. Oh, I didn't know I could offer. I didn't know I could do that. So it's actually the parent concerns, I think, are the fact that it suggests risky behaviors that the students were prior to that were unaware of.
TEXT> Yeah, I think they're very valid concerns. And all I can say is that I did follow up with the high school administration and inadvertently, the opt out did not get sent out. I mean, they were  it was discussed or an advisory verbally. It was opt out, but it doesn't matter. You know, the law says we need to the requirements say we have to send it out. It was inadvertently  left out. So I mean, there's no excuses for it and stuff, but I totally agree, is that we need to provide parents those opportunities to make that decision, whether or not they're their student, to take it as a parent, I would want the same thing. So,
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That was is it correct that we can opt out of this as a district is not required? As for us to do.

[R16530-497] Loren Howard | School Board Member, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right, Mr. Howard, I saw your hand.
TEXT> Yeah. And I think to both of their points, that's what makes the opt out that much more important. If a parent thinks their child is a they shield a child who doesn't experience people who are doing drug abuse, or or the like. I could see why they wouldn't want to put those ideas in their head. But if a parent is aware of their own child's, it's bringing whether they're in adopted parent or the like. I just think  that the opt out is the most important part, because it enables a parent to stop them from seeing something that they wouldn't otherwise see.  But overall, I think the data is super important. So if. You. Sure about this on a future agenda, I'd want to keep it.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: How would that work though? Did you see the survey?

[R16530-507] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: That's where. The. Problem was.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah. It wasn't the it was. Parents need to know  when it's going to happen. And do I have to have my child take it? If you miss that important piece of paper that's I mean it was it was, it was just it was just accidental thing with everything going on, it was no ill intent.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's the thing. That's always that. We won't do that again.

[R16556-30] Alicia Simoneau | Bluff Elementary School teacher; field-trip presenter (self-identified | 2025-05-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And is. It for. Two days?
TEXT> Yes. Yep. We leave.  Five. I think we're going to increase the time. 5:45 a.m.. Kids have to be at school. Did you go on the trip? Oh. You didn't. Okay.  And,  we're going to leave Thursday morning.  Sleepover at Indian Head Resort.  Kids will go to the flume then.  The  railway up to the top of Mount Washington. Sleepover. That's going to be the best part. Is sleeping with, what, five kids in a room, and then  the next morning, go to Canaan Mountain and then lost River to go through all the caves and the gorge and then come home on the bus, and they all fall asleep, hopefully.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: So it is two nights.

[R16556-34] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-05-21
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I got it. Okay. Very good. Thank you.
TEXT> I have a comment and a question. My comment is the smiles say it all in the slides. I mean, thank you for doing that. And my question is, how many students participated?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.

[R16556-64] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-05-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: So, seeing no objections to any of the items on the consent agenda, all the items on the consent agenda pass. We've already done citizens comments. Moving on to our second superintendents report.
TEXT> Good evening everyone.  In this month's May superintendent report, which is also published on the website, you can find. I do want to announce the. We hired a new officer, Mr. Scott Maple. In the district, he brings with him over 20 years of experience in law enforcement officers in various capacities that demonstrate his dedication to public safety and community engagement. He's been very visible in all the schools on a regular basis. Fluency officer position. He is housed right at the SEO office.  He is very reachable for the radio, and he has his own phone extension now. And also with that,  I'm working with him to keep data on the house visits. He does. And the reasons. And he's already making a huge impact in  going out to schools,  students houses and talking to parents and forming a relationship. He's just talking to faculty members and administration. He's doing a fantastic job. And, you know, making a difference on the truancy that we've seen over the past few years. So I want to welcome him to the Sussex team. Also, I just want to announce that, Mr. Rick Elliott, who's currently the assistant principal of the high school, is taking over as  the new curriculum director. Mr. Elliott brings 20 years of experience in education as a strong background in instructional leadership and a deep commitment to academic excellence.  He is also a proud graduate of Stevens High School as well as our Nutrients Officer.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Also a former graduate, Stevens High School. Mr. Elliott. He is a master's degree in educational leadership from Keene State, is a national board certified teacher in mathematics. And so

[R16556-66] Unidentified | Diarization scatter cluster — brief fragments from multiple voices (un | 2025-05-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: the middle school, June 9th. At 6 p.m. is the eighth grade capstone. June 11th is the last day of school. And June 11th, also at 7 p.m. is the Stevens High School graduation with reception. So, that's it for the superintendent's report. Any questions?
TEXT> Students graduation. Okay.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: That must be for the middle school.

[R16556-188] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-05-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: This will help for this coming year. Is there any other comments or questions before we move?
TEXT> I had another comment.  In addition to  the revised  meeting,  the requirements under the general assurances,  Mr. Pratt had also provided us with an accompanying list of anti-discrimination  policies that are also in place  to project to protect students of any background,  including transgender students who would be covered under JB.  So in addition to the revised policy, we still have  a slew of policies that protect for different reasons. That's all I have for notes.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Pratt would like to speak.

[R16580-4] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (his NH SAS/benchmark presentation; di | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Can everybody see that or turn a little bit? That'd be great. Yes. Turn or no. We're good. Thank you.
TEXT> So have some positive results and some areas of work, but  it's always good to look at the data and see, see where we stand. So we'll begin with, nothing. There we go. Sorry. Be go with science scores. And we couple pieces of information. Blue below. Proficiency red. Getting there. Yellow is at or above proficient. The solid line is the state average for New Hampshire of last year. They haven't published their state average for this year. And the dotted line is our scores from the year prior. Oh okay. The bright spot here is that high school scored by the state average. If you look at our score from last year, which was 39% huge improvement due to move up,  and  so really proud of that. And we are close to getting close to the state average in eighth grade, still pretty far behind in fifth grade elementary school. And obviously these these large blue buyers are concerned, but for whatever reason, state the science schools across the state. And probably because of the gaps in between those tests tend to score very low statewide.  So the statewide average in the 40s or the high 30s is,  is is kind of rough. But our,  our 11th grade students really did themselves compared to years past.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And so that's nice. A comment a little bit about the factors in that, Doctor Harrington get pretty impassioned speech to the junior class prior to the test, really worked

[R16580-7] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (his NH SAS/benchmark presentation; di | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: scores. But overall across the district, we're just we're still in a sporadic growth pattern. Any questions about English, Mike. Question in general. Time frame was this testing? This was all in early May. Was considered in the late or early mid May. It's considered.
TEXT> In of year testing. Yes. Yeah. These are all our end of year schools. Yep. Yes. Okay.  I'd like to compare. Here's our I ready reading scores at the end of the year they show. And I'm going to go back down to the SAT scores. So you can see third grade, fourth grade and fifth grade yellow bars are proficient. If we go back different tests. But I really seems to be a little more  generous with proficiency ratings then. The sass test, certainly for third grade. For fifth grade, they scored much higher on the Sass test than they did on the I ready on the I ready test. Whoops. So fifth grade proficiency on IRA was only 36%. Fifth grade on the Sass test was 48%. Trying to figure out what this means and try to interpret it could be motivation, could be initiative. If the teachers we had we had  some principals in schools provide incentives for kids to try and do the best on the test.  Some kids embrace that. Some kids didn't. So in in comparing these two  different assessments,  can be be cautious with the irony reading scores because they look a little aggressive for the younger kids. But they may not be as accurate a,  an indicator for our SAT scores.  Or we just made have a different set of interest and effort for those two testings. Any questions about that?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do you see a difference between schools? Number one.

[R16580-10] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: We do.
TEXT> Yeah.  And is it based on is it related to free and reduced lunch or.  I mean, can you find a correlation between the percentage of students that receive free and reduced lunch or.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, not so much that, once the this year.

[R16580-13] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (his NH SAS/benchmark presentation; di | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: I know you can't say who.
TEXT> Yeah. This year we had some schools, struggled with, leadership situations and teacher turnover and that seemed to very much impact their scores.  Other schools have little more study situation and those students perform better.  In terms of direct correlation  between kind of socioeconomic status or free and reduced lunch. No, we we really have such a large population. We would find students in all these categories  from free and reduced lunch.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So if you were going to be looking for one reason why one school would be more successful than the other would be consistent leadership and reduced teacher turnover and

[R16580-15] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (his NH SAS/benchmark presentation; di | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So if you were going to be looking for one reason why one school would be more successful than the other would be consistent leadership and reduced teacher turnover and improved or higher concentration of professional development.
TEXT> Yeah, I would move more towards instructional practice. The the teachers who had observations and are pushing students thinking to the testing level that they're getting, assessed on by the Sass test. Those students did much better. And  so we've, we've got the right programs in place. We've got the right curriculum in place. We've just got to get the instructional practice elevated across the district to to really see the scores come up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron.

[R16580-17] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair (recognized by the Chair as 'Mr. patron'; pres | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron.
TEXT> So this is what frustrates me is that kids are doing poorly because adults are doing poorly. Is what I'm hearing as  well, which is part of it. Yeah. But we have we have instructional coaches, which is optional, is encouraged, but it's not. But if we know we have adults that are not teaching to the level they should be, they should. My opinion, there should be some required professional development or you will do this. You will have this coaching. I mean, I know the coaching is that, you know, it's an appointment for maybe something else. But if I'm doing poorly in my job, I get a performance improvement plan and I have to do certain things to be better at that where I'm slipping.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I think we need to do more of that in education. And I think we, you know, this is my third year here. I think we finally have enough data

[R16580-36] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Can you explain what a data walk is?
TEXT> Is pretty much  what assistant superintendent and is breaking down the data. What it means, what it doesn't mean? What are the you know, what are we seeing? What do we want to focus on? You know, you know, using each other, say, okay,  my school is for my class were, you know,  greatness and miss T say, well, mine weren't so great. What did you do to raise your schools up that I could do? It's kind of like they're learning from each other. Two by looking at each others data and assisting each other and say, okay, you don't have to reinvent the wheel. You know, what did you did at work for your class and you want to do it a great above grade below because. Oh, I had this student. This works for him or her rather than them trying to figure it out all over again for that year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Madden, Mr. Caskey.

[R16580-38] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (recognized as 'Mr. Madden'; presenter's brief ans | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Madden, Mr. Caskey.
TEXT> Did you make these charts or did you? Yes, you made them. Okay. My first comment is. The way it's presented. You have it looks like a ceiling with the average state score. That's a failure. Now, it would be an achievement for our situation right now. Okay. My point of view is. We got to raise the bar dramatically. No argument against that. Okay. But even the way we're presenting it, okay, we're presenting very low expectations. Well, I would disagree, I don't think. But if that's the way it's received, that's not well, that's the way I would see it. I'm a hard ass. Yeah. That's okay.  Let me go back and make some compliments first. You mentioned Doctor Harrington. I also know that he did something else where he excused kids from school or  from another test if they took this test. Yes. Those students that scored in science didn't have to take their science final. I like that, I like that very much. So providing an incentive. Right. And then I think when we sat down and talked, you told me you get a zero. All the all the students, the parents that are allowing the students to opt out, get a zero.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. They don't we don't.

[R16580-47] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (merged into Chair's cluster; continues her grade- | 2025-06-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: Yeah.
TEXT> It is. And to add to that part of that collaboration between grade levels and among the upper and lower grade levels is part of teaching to the test. Because there are practice tests, there are ways to instruct kids in how to understand better. And then the test assesses it. So you're not you are teaching to the test, but you're implementing good instructional. Strategies  and good,  pieces of a curriculum that will teach kids. And if they are taught better, they will do better. Right. The test.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: There's there's a new requirement. Now I forget what it is. Some state requirement, personal finance or something. And I believe that's only a quarter credit V lax also has

[R16580-72] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Procedure, trust me.
TEXT> So that eats up time. But yes, we can we can start some of that  data analysis, with the exception of our new teachers who wouldn't have had any students last year. But they can see what former teachers have produced.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: The training that you mentioned, the fire drills and safety and all that stuff. They have to be done in person or their opportunities for teachers to do that individually,

[R16580-81] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (brief reply clipped into an adjacent  | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: website to kind of get a better understanding of what the Sass was about, sure. They had a bunch of test prep resources for schools. I guess the question that I have is, is there a reason that we are not mandating test prep universally?
TEXT> Okay. We we I don't know if mandate is probably we're just shy of mandating it.  We've  requested so there are two different pieces.  One is what are called modular. They're just sample questions. And the teacher can model how to attack a question, strategies, how to manipulate the text, all that kind of stuff.  And then there's an interim test, which is a practice test that the students take get a score. And that score tends to be a good indicator of how they'll do on their end of year test. We did do the interims testing at all the schools this year. Yeah, we did not run  a full. The Sass test has no time limit and so we didn't run it that way. We time bound the interim test just to make it realistic to to be able to do during the school day. But we did do those interim tests.  Could we? We could certainly spend more time on test prep, get into that debate about, you know, how much is too much? And so, you know, we can be happy to take direction from the board if, if we you feel like we need more  focus on our state test results and want us to start to spend more time on that, that would.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, I. Personally think it's critical and I think it's critical for for two reasons. Number one, because we want our kids to learn. But number two, it's also a

[R16580-84] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: It is for many people, the only thing if you're not in the district or in the school system, it's maybe your only point of information about.
TEXT> This, and it's the only thing I can't tell you. As somebody who's been in the upper Valley, how many people have, you know, mentioned it to me that one of the reasons that they did not come to Claremont as they were willing to spend more on their house in Lebanon, get their kid in a school district that has higher standardized test scores. So it's the only point of reference  to your point. The other thing I just have a question about is I know that we were struggling with teacher evaluation tools, and I think, are we anywhere closer to.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, teacher evaluation tool is part of the negotiated contract. Correct. And so when when that comes up for negotiation, that'll be part of the negotiations I believe I'm not

[R16580-93] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: taking when you took your SATs, we got the book and, you know, it was just, I think just having teachers in a classroom with the kids, with the book during advisory, going over it. And, I mean, there may be a budget friendly way.
TEXT> There is a budget friendly and it's it's it's very doable because I, we, you know, we can say,  as an administration, I can say we want, you know, kids, we can decide which kids want, take them, take the SATs,  the practice tests and even sample SAT test within Excel. And it gauges it towards their own level of understanding. So when they take it, they can see exactly where they they are, where they do good stuff. So that's that's not a budgetary thing because we already have at Excel. It's just a matter of saying elevating. This is what we expect. You know,  at this time for  S.A.T. prep.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, I think that the board would probably say we support this initiative and would back it. I don't know.

[R16580-96] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: I was questioning whether the focus on declined is as colleges declined, requiring the SAT scores on applications. I mean, it still required some places, but a lot of them have. It's not a requirement for a lot.
TEXT> It's going back, though. Even Dartmouth went back to S.A.T. like when my daughter was applying. There was a lot of apps,  and they found that kids who did poorly on SATs were failing.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah.

[R16580-98] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> So I think I think if I can address that, a bigger issue is we're about high 40s, low 50s of students who go on to additional schooling. That leaves half of our people taking the SAT without a reason to take it.  And so we've got to find an incentive to get them to be interested in taking the test. I think if we mandate a course that might prove to be difficult,  just like we wouldn't mandate physics or chemistry for students who did that.  But it it certainly would be a step forward to improving our scores. The more more you practice something that obviously the better you do at it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Madden.

[R16580-101] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (merged into Chair's cluster; resumes her earlier  | 2025-06-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: and probably would have tried to do a little bit better with it. That's a long, long time ago. But we should try to get that information. We should try to get that information out to the parents. Also let them push a little bit.
TEXT> I have to bring us back to the elementary level. Sure, I usually do. Do we have your leaders at all in any, anywhere in the elementary schools, like for grade levels or for primary? Intermediate? Just teachers who are the teachers whose students continuously do well and who are. Seen with respect by their colleagues and who they will listen to. Since we don't have coaches at the elementary level, how do we have anything like that at all? Do we offer an opportunity for teachers?
NEXT> Mike Koski: We can identify those teachers and have. But in terms of an additional responsibility or what are.

[R16580-104] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (brief reply clipped into an adjacent  | 2025-06-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I don't know, I'm playing queen for the day.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. Yeah. No, Oftentimes like to and it's a hard move for teachers. They often see themselves very much as a flat organization.  And for one to step up and say, I understand this and I can teach this to you,  can can be a difficult move, but,  there are teachers who who have shown year after year that their students are doing well,  and we've we've given them opportunities to present what they know. Some take it, some don't.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Were even leaving a collaborative session with their with their court. You know, just so that there's a focus on we can do better. We're seeing those results. And here's

[R16580-105] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (merged into Chair's cluster) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: I can teach this to you, can can be a difficult move, but, there are teachers who who have shown year after year that their students are doing well, and we've we've given them opportunities to present what they know. Some take it, some don't.
TEXT> Were even leaving a collaborative session with their with their court. You know, just so that there's a focus on we can do better. We're seeing those results. And here's the toolbox that will do it. My last question when you said you you can see patterns with teachers. Have you do you have the opportunity to look at multiple years of teachers whose students always are demonstrating they've got quality learning versus those students who.
NEXT> Mike Koski: For those teachers who've been here multiple years, yes.

[R16580-114] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: know that they're not performing at the same level of their peers. And they may be more open at that point because we can have like what the parade was, the Dunning-Kruger effect, where you you think you're a whole lot better than you are.
TEXT> Yeah, that is actually happening at all the schools. They each have the data teams, these have leadership teams. They produce red, yellow, green triangles. Students move through those colors. And so red students or students are not at grade level. Yellows close green is at or above. And and they every two weeks look at their student data.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Do they compare theirs with their.

[R16580-116] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do they compare theirs with their.
TEXT> They they do so in grade level meetings. The triangles come out and and they look at their data,  and so they can see and  and teachers are very excited to move students from one category to a next as they show improvement.  But yeah, we have those meetings and we those data practices where, okay,  people aren't named, but within that small team. Knows who. They are. He knows. Yeah.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: I just want to clarify, I was in no way suggesting publicly no, no, that I was not know. Believe me, I would never do that. Yeah. Can we can.

[R16580-117] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (merged into Chair's cluster) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: teachers are very excited to move students from one category to a next as they show improvement. But yeah, we have those meetings and we those data practices where, okay, people aren't named, but within that small team. Knows who. They are. He knows. Yeah.
TEXT> I just want to clarify, I was in no way suggesting publicly no, no, that I was not know. Believe me, I would never do that. Yeah. Can we can. The,  gaps between special education students and students not receiving special education services be identified through your data analysis at the state.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes. Yeah. They disaggregate the data. The gaps are identified. The correction is less clear as to how to close that gap.

[R16580-121] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (merged into Chair's cluster) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah, but yes.
TEXT> The teachers are aware of the gaps with the students. And you know, that's not for us. I'm just saying yeah.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah. So in particular, the case managers of those students, can can look at their students scores, the classroom teacher, and then they can work together to address those gaps.

[R16580-132] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: issue, or is it. Our resources are human, resources are scattered, or we haven't had consistent human resources. I guess what I'm saying is that are these problems that can kind of see themselves with consistency at the saw and building level, or that's bigger.
TEXT> Than I think that would go a long way. So consistency, not just at the level, but at the building level leadership  that would trickle down to classroom level,  stability and lower turnover,  which would provide for improvements instead of having to start fresh.  It's really hard. It happens, but it's really hard to trade up on a new hire. Right. I mean you're you do a couple of interviews. If you're really lucky you might get to see the teacher teach a lesson.  But it's, it's very difficult to, to get a better teacher than  than the one who left. Usually you get the same. And so if we can retain our staff and build into them, that's where we're seeing a lot of the growth among students. Teachers who've been here for three years just paid it in PD learning skills. Each year. They add on new skills in their classroom, and they're just improving. And their students are improving as a result.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And for a lot of these kids, relationships are so important.

[R16580-136] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: it takes a half a year to build that relationship, to really know their learning style and you know how to get them where they need to be. So, I think, you know, turnover for whatever reason, definitely plays a huge role in, students achievement.
TEXT> Just a quick story. We had a fifth grade student misbehaving pretty badly in class. First grade teacher came up and spoke to him, and he was fine because he had a relationship with that teacher and a lot of respect for it. His teacher was new. He was having a lot of difficulty with the newness. So that relationship piece, particularly in elementary school, because they're together for five years, six years  really matters.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We're going to be moving into.

[R16580-142] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Next item on the agenda segways neatly into Mr. Presentation. It's program effectiveness and impact on the budget. Superintendent Pratt will have opportunities to share his perspectives on our instructional coaches, social workers, and policies that impact school culture, social health and behavior.
TEXT> Yeah. You know, so this is a nice segway  based on the information you just had and some of the discussions we've just having around it. You know, we talked a little bit about coaches. If you look at our strategic plan that we newly adopted,  one of the things we're looking at is that, you know, you know, the education, the elementary, primary grade levels in what we need. And right now, you know, we have coaches at the middle and high school. We don't have any elementary ready, have the conversation with principals and stuff. And, we weren't able to pull it out for next year just because we didn't, you know, our hope was to take our current coaches at the middle of high school and move them down to the elementary. But you have to take consideration the skill set, the population of kids that they're working with. And so the plan moving forward enough next to the year after that is that we want each school to have their own elementary coach. We have three elementary schools. We have three budgeted positions for elementary coaches. So all our resources for elementary coaches will go at the early, early years.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: School year 2020.

[R16580-147] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: effectiveness of there's not a need for coaches at the middle school and high school, but I think that falls more on the administration and the teachers to work with the students with the curriculum coordinator. Coaches improve teaching practices, leading to better student outcomes.
TEXT> And that's that we've been trying to focus on, remember, we've been trying to fill a coaching position for the last year and a half. You know, we've we've budgeted for three. We only have two, you know, so the elementary, elementary schools are feeling that, they're sharing resources amongst each other. So I don't think, looking forward, that we're looking at any kind of impact to the budget. It's just filling the right, filling those positions with the right people for the elementary school and following our strategic plan that says, this is, you know,  our primary focus should be. Elementary. Starting with the elementary before we move forward. As far as social workers. Wow. Social workers, as you also know, you know, we've been down social workers over the years. The need for social workers, have grown tremendously.  But we're finding is that we need them, but they're just not out there, you know? So keep in mind, social workers address student attendance behaviors, mental health issues. And that all relates to achievement in schools. If we don't have students in the frame of mind, whether in survival mode and they're in schools, how can we expect them to learn in the classroom? And so once again, we've budgeted for what we have, I think, down the road as needs continue to grow. That could be, a budget factor as we're looking for  more social workers to be in the schools.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The ones that we have now, I think, spread very thin. They're they're trying to do everything they can, but there's a lot that they're dealing with. You figure if

[R16580-148] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: expect them to learn in the classroom? And so once again, we've budgeted for what we have, I think, down the road as needs continue to grow. That could be, a budget factor as we're looking for more social workers to be in the schools.
TEXT> The ones that we have now, I think, spread very thin. They're they're trying to do everything they can, but there's a lot that they're dealing with. You figure if they're called to a school, it's not, you know, for a five minute conversation and a leaving their time,  is well spent. And it's usually, like I said, it's not a poppin for five minutes. If they're there, there, there, there for quite some time. Trying to address it with the teachers or the parents. You know, a lot of them go out to the houses. I mean, they're doing a lot of stuff and it's all directly tied to the academics. It's it's kind of like, the coaches of what they're doing in the classroom to help the teachers. Social workers are pretty much doing the same thing for students and parents to get them ready to be in the classroom with teachers. And,  you know, of course we know this. Everything we're talking about tonight, you know, can impact school culture if we're not, if we don't continue to find ways to provide  the teachers the help in the professional development that they need in the classrooms to deal with this new era of,  student learners. I think we're the student population that we're dealing with now.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: They're coming to school with a lot more on their little plates that are overflowing, and we're trying to find a way to address them, not just academically, but like

[R16580-149] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: we're not, if we don't continue to find ways to provide the teachers the help in the professional development that they need in the classrooms to deal with this new era of, student learners. I think we're the student population that we're dealing with now.
TEXT> They're coming to school with a lot more on their little plates that are overflowing, and we're trying to find a way to address them, not just academically, but like I said before, prepare them to be ready for learn. And that's a huge undertaking. And between the coaches and the teachers and the social workers,  you know, we're trying to find a way to educate these students. In areas that a lot of times as educators, we weren't really trained to do.  I don't think any of this stuff we're talking about here is we're looking for, you know, any kind of huge increases to the budget. It really has been coming down to since I've been here. It's just finding the people because all these areas are very short. You know, we have behaviorists, the CBA, we have social workers, we have counselors, school nurses, all these area that service students outside of the classroom. They're just not out there. And so we're doing everything we can to,  support each other with what we currently currently have.  You know, but, you know, I think all this ties into we were talking earlier at the policy subcommittee meeting.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You know, we're really doing a great job catching up on all these policies and policies help drive what we're doing tremendously. We all know, you know, we have a

[R16580-187] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduced at the meeting as 'Assista | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: it looks like for middle school and high school teachers if something goes wrong. This is how you can deal with the classroom. Rather than saying go to the administration. And right now the saying go to the administration because they're dealing with so much.
TEXT> Yeah, there's a course we're running this summer and into the school year called Skillful Teacher,  run by research for Better Teaching. It's been around for a couple of decades, and it's teachers. It just teaches you all the little skills that you need to run your classroom.  You know, simple things like instead of speaking to a student, just continuing the lesson, go stand beside the student. If they're not paying attention, you don't break anybody else's attention. And and there's just hundreds of these little. Tips, tips and. Tricks, tips and tricks, all research based. The teachers who take the class will be eligible for three graduate credits from state. Well, it's just it was one of the best courses I ever took as an instructor. Many of our teachers have had it, but at least 50% of those who were who were here have not. So we're hoping to get a good group through that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And there's no cost to the teachers to take that.

[R16580-212] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: No.
TEXT> When we first started talking about this, I thought it would also be more of  like an ombudsman role, but maybe  we don't need it because Arlene and Heather, I understand you've really gotten into the  handbook, parent student handbook, and also the Hanover stuff that you sent out.  That was awesome. Looked at that.  Wow. So if we can move towards that, maybe it would make things easier between the parents and the school system.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What do you think about Lauren? Would you be would you be willing to do one more thing, or should we? Look.

[R16580-289] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (presents the Policy Subcommittee report) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we have any discussion about policy GDEF? Seeing none all in favor of adopting the policy as presented by the Policy Committee, say a policy is unanimously adopted.
TEXT> The next one in the packet is J I see l this is district internet access for students.  This is also a new policy for Claremont. And it also has the attachment of the procedure. This is the one that that they're talking about trying to get it signed online.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. That's the one we're hoping to do pretty much move forward. Any forms that parents and students need to sign off can do electronic.

[R16580-297] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (presents the Policy Subcommittee report) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we need to adopt the R one separately? So those are all procedure. This is just so that's the procedure okay.
TEXT> And they will be on the website as well. So I will move to adopt JICL school district internet access for students. I'll second.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard seconds. All in favor of is there any discussion. All in favor of adopting policy J. I see l as presented by the policy subcommittee. Say a a

[R16580-305] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (presents the Policy Subcommittee report) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: to adopt policy J I see k as presented by the policy subcommittee Mr. Madness. Yes. Second, any discussion? Seeing none. All in favor of adopting policy J I see. K as presented by the policy subcommittee. Say I I seeing none oppose policies adopted.
TEXT> And just as an aside, in our meeting today, we do talk about which policies would be then incorporated into handbooks for the schools. And this is one of those policies. The next one is I h be a programs for students with disabilities. This is a revision. The one that we currently have is from 2007. This one is been revised in 2024  and it gives more specific information relative to Idea and section 504 programs and safeguards. And parents who have students who are identified through Idea 504, we are required to provide them with their safeguards annually at their meetings. So this just confirms that in a policy and people can parents can get the safeguards either through the building level administrator or through the Student Support Services office at the same office. And that's what's in here, basically.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'd like to make a motion that the board adopts as presented by the policy subcommittee policy. I h be a second, Mr. Madden, in seconds. Is there any discussion

[R16580-370] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: so we can get them any comments any thoughts. Because we do meet every the day of every board meeting before the board meeting. And so if there is a comment we can always adopt or amend. We adopt with an amended version. Thank you.
TEXT> Well, I just want to thank everybody on the policy subcommittee for the job that you're doing. This is a huge lift, and it's doing a lot to give structure to the district and to help the building leaders and and the students and the families to, to know what to expect. And so and the administrative team has been really kicking it up. And, Mary, thank you for getting those procedures. And, just so the community does know that the fiscal management policies that are coming forward toward the board before the board  next meeting will. Miss Henry is going to be working on those procedures to make sure that we have links to those procedures and that we are we are battening down the hatches, making sure that, any financial management irregularities are going to be  ameliorated.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And the procedures will be on the website and the procedures, the policies.

[R16580-372] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And the procedures will be on the website and the procedures, the policies.
TEXT> So that the community can see that it has been done and they just don't hear it. That has been done in a meeting. So, truly appreciate all the hard work. Just to circle back to the  added,  discussion item,  I had received multiple requests from board members to have an opportunity to, just give our feedback on  the handbooks from the elementary school, CMS and high school that were distributed electronically to board members for review. So we had an opportunity to share with the administrative team and to let the community know what direction the board felt that we needed to move toward.  As far as elevating what our culture is going to be in the district and have it reflected in our handbooks,  and to make our handbooks friendly for students and families and for the administrators that are, using them as a tool. So is are any. Dramatic?
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: And just see if I understand that we are now.

[R16580-388] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (presents the Policy Subcommittee report) | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: And then with our new policies that will drive the rest of the format. You know, elementary will have one middle school, have one high school one. But you'll see a lot more commonalities in regards to consistency that I talk about district wide policies.
TEXT> And one of the policies would be bringing forward talks about the code of conduct and using the program. I don't know if that's the right word for it of multi-tiered student supports for students to be successful before it gets into the more disciplinary once, and it's all laid out in steps so that teachers and students parents have a chance to work with the student, and especially at an early age. That's really where we set those expectations for behavior and support. And so that's part of the policy work that we're doing. So I think it will be helpful for everyone.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So moving forward, we've all had the handbooks presented to us in a Google Doc form. The task of the board is to make their edits, revisions, suggestions on that

[R16580-401] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-06-03
PREV> Chris Pratt: I'll see you in graduations Thursday.
TEXT> Okay, here's my concern.  I know that we have at least one very high performing student who wasn't accepted to their first choice  college.  And who knows if,  you know, putting one more line on their resume, saying  high honors every year, maybe it would have tipped the scales. So this is just another thing we have to clean up.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, we can look at it for as moving forward. But but having it for the day after tomorrow would be a tough sell. Maximum possible with everything going on.

[R16602-133] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's academic excellence.
TEXT> Yeah. The idea being it's it's a transition time for students and students fall down and then they gather them selves and and so ranking students in those ages is  kind of frowned upon.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: All right. Well, this is a good segue because I have to ask you a question. I've been. Coaxed to introduce a motion. I don't know if this is the.

[R16602-149] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You know, we've we've made that decision to take.
TEXT> So  what I would say is that since we're still going to have the same members on the policy committee moving forward into the next school year, I don't know, you let me know. Mr. Madden, if you're meant to. This is that that's  I think, everything related to students now that we've gotten 99% of our through her her Kleon work of the policy committee, we've gotten a lot of our required and priority policies done that we focus on students. I don't know how you feel about that, Mr. Madden, but I think the only other option is to tell the administrator, give them the directive, and then you lose control. Mr.. Mr. Sprague.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And how much Jeff. Knows about. Power school, but, you were around long enough to hear a lot of the deliberations around competency based grading, ABC grading. And I think

[R16602-184] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes.
TEXT> Okay, great. So, like Heather mentioned, this is not for you to vote on for consideration this evening. So hopefully that will raise the stakes a little bit. We are here obviously at the request of Superintendent Pratt. Just to share a little bit more with you about a conversation that we've had with him about potentially exploring what it might look like to look into special education within the district, specifically through offering of hours called our Special Education Opportunity Review. So I'm going to give an overview of that review. Going to tie it back to how it relates to the strategic plan work that we've been doing with you for the course  the last year and a half now.  And then hopefully if there's some questions we can ask those as well. So I will do some talking and then I will turn it back over to you all to hear the on your mind as you think and consider an opportunity like this. So obviously many of you are familiar with our team. This is the team that typically  works with districts when it comes to that special education opportunity. Reviews. You can see a CEO  from Kim is always doing work. And then myself, my colleague, Center College. Some of you all met by  the moment also be joining us here shortly,  are also working on that student support for education to work with and  within our group.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: So in terms of familiar faces, there would be a lot of us around you seen before. For those of you who haven't been as before, the board, I'm. Going.

[R16602-200] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: finally, what we come back to you all with, with that opportunity review is some really prioritize actionable insight that you can take action on and make sure that you are doing what you can do to live into the opportunities that we will present.
TEXT> One thing I want to highlight and really focus on is what it is we're actually looking at when it comes to this opportunity review. So it's really four is a focus that we're looking into. These are the people and what that but these are kind of the big buckets that we move around. So the first around district wide systems for success. So really closely looking at what structures and systems insist to make sure that people are collaborating, they're communicating their health and countable at a really high level to make sure that students with disabilities are getting what they need. The second piece that we look at is staff, and how staff are being developed to be their most effective for students, and structures exist to make sure that they have real clarity on what their role is with students, because we know when it comes to working with students with disabilities, there's a lot of people, right? And so making sure that everyone knows what their role is and is really key and that they have effectively developed schedules and they're using their time in a way that's going to serve students  and not spend on things that to serve students. The third book is that we look really closely at is just the instructional practices that are happening.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: And so this isn't just for students with disabilities. This is something that really benefits all students. So how are school districts and schools approaching tier one practices that prioritize

[R16602-202] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: do we make sure that students can stay in their home school without a district to get those services? We know that is not only not great for students to have to leave their home communities, but also a real strain on resource as well.
TEXT> So when we're thinking about this study, these are really the four buckets that we're looking at the really understand.  Where are the strengths in the district when it comes to supporting students and special education, and whether it gaps? That presents some opportunities. One thing I also just want to call out is that in the strategic plan that you all drafted and confirmed in this past year, that goes from 2025 to 20 2030, increasing with percentage of students with disabilities who are meeting or exceeding expectations. And  that is actually one of the measures as part of that students outcomes goal. So when we think about cackling that goal. What about you first have to do is understand what are the challenges we're trying to solve. For sure that those students can do that. They successful. So just want to connect this to that strategic plan piece. It's actually in the strategic plan that outcomes for students with disabilities is something are going to measure that priority value. So we want to highlight that as well. When we do this work we typically do it over the course of about six months. And there are four key phases at work. So the first thing that we do is bring together and coalition will be going to be the champions of the work.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: We're going to communicate. We're going to communicate with all the different builders and really create some momentum for change that people around, around why this is so important and

[R16602-203] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: we do this work we typically do it over the course of about six months. And there are four key phases at work. So the first thing that we do is bring together and coalition will be going to be the champions of the work.
TEXT> We're going to communicate. We're going to communicate with all the different  builders and really create some momentum for change that people around, around why this is so important and why change is necessary for students with getting special education services. The second piece that we do is look at the current practice. So we'll look at quantitative data qualitative data. Some of which we already have, some working on a strategic plan. And some of what you need is so collect from different stakeholders. We do interviews with district leadership. We do staff focus groups. And then we also do that schedule sharing activity, where we actually collect information about how staff are able to spend their very, very valuable time. Because we know that all the things that are going on, it's not always spent in the ways that we hope that staff will be able to. So after we analyze that current practice, because it's back to the district and say, here's some initial things that we're seeing and we be close, we present and we discuss full findings essentially what we kind of workshop does.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: And then we synthesize those recommendations to really address the highest leverage things. So what you're not going to see is a 120 page report, few different actions. That's what

[R16602-204] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: staff will be able to. So after we analyze that current practice, because it's back to the district and say, here's some initial things that we're seeing and we be close, we present and we discuss full findings essentially what we kind of workshop does.
TEXT> And then we synthesize those recommendations to really address the highest leverage things. So what you're not going to see is a 120 page report, few different actions. That's what you could take. But you're going to see is a list of 4 to 5 really high impact, highly feasible things that you could tackle in the next  1 to 5 years that are going to move the needle. And then finally, what we do is we share that back to that guiding coalition that we brought together in the beginning. And we think that to really prioritize those opportunities and enable and empower them to make decisions about what should happen next and who should do that work. So we really kind of bring it full circle so it doesn't just sit on a shelf for you. All that, whether we end the present or end the opportunity where you're really doing some action, planning about what needs to happen next. You do see in the gray and chevron there that sometimes districts keep us on to work through implementing some of these things, and sometimes districts feel like based on that action plan or not,  based on those prioritized opportunities, they have what they need to go forth and do great things for kids.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: So that's a TBD. But we did want to put it out there because there are some things that we do to help. I'm going to dig into each of

[R16602-207] Maggie Gallagher | Consultant, District Management Group (remote presenter; first name as | 2025-06-18
PREV> Maggie Gallagher: students, in what setting they're working with students, how big the group sizes they're working with. And then our technology takes all of that data, and it takes out back to us a bunch of, insights and perspectives on how that time is being used.
TEXT> And so typically we do this with folks who schedule changes regularly. So special education teachers, interventionists, related providers, those folks who are kind of all over the place at a given day because of how they support students, this is usually really, really valuable to this because it helps us see how time is being used and whether or not kind of being used on too much on people's plates, or whether I can actually be used to skilled students. So again, always making sure that we're maximizing the amount of time that is being spent with students. This is just an example of those insights that are mentioned from our software. Basically, that the slide is saying is that across four different schools in this example, district,  special education teacher spend significant different amounts of time with students. And so what we found for this district and for this set of staff members is that their time is really conflicted with meetings and paperwork. So we're not able to spend as much time as kids as we would ideally like, conceive. So having this kind of data really allows districts to set clear guidelines around how staff should give their time, help them streamline tasks where they are, potentially take things off their plate that don't need to be on their plate, but they can work with students.
NEXT> Maggie Gallagher: Again, we do this with a lot of roles, not just special education computers, but this is one example of how we use this data. And then obviously, we take

[R16602-234] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike Koski: Swenson organized some skilled staff members to run half day sessions for these by Monday through Thursday or Monday through Wednesday this week. So today is the last day. And then we have some instructional practice, professional development. All of these are open to teachers.
TEXT> 80% are open to Paris  who can attend. And so,  focusing  for our elementary teachers. Responsive classroom is a classroom management training at a start today how to get your kids into routines. So that you can get to instruction. Right. It's managing all of the little people in the room so the instruction can occur. Skillful teacher is a Cape 12 program. It, it's been around for at least three decades, maybe four.  And it's it's a compilation of all the research on effective instruction. And so it is not specialized to a grade level like responsive classroom is  but it's for  all teachers. Oh, gap is a math,  math instructional method. Professional development for elementary teachers and letters is a  reading instruction, professional development training for elementary teachers. Those are self-paced. The teachers sign up for and take like a class over the summer. They continue with a second session during the school year, and then we have Doctor Derek Staves coming back for a summer session in August, again on math practices.  And that's applicable for many different math levels. I'm just going to continue and interrupt me with any questions.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I don't I was just wondering, summer opportunities, if you had someone that, say he was on an improvement plan and then a teacher and the main issues classroom

[R16602-284] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> It's I could make an analogy. You know, it's like, it's not quite the same, but, you know, you're taught how to fold your socks in the military and how to make your bed. And we need to start. So we have this consistent pattern. So when a children  child moves from room to room the expectation should be the same.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, I understand that. But if we have teachers with 20 years experience and we're sending them. That's very worrisome to me.

[R16602-298] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike Koski: Positive peer pressure. Sure. What was the second question?
TEXT> What is different about like how do we whether or not this professional development that we're offering is actually bearing fruit, like, can we see it in our teacher evaluations? Do principals come back to, what you that's selecting what professional development say, hey, we've seen like everybody's doing what what they learned here. And they seem to really grab on to this. And they're implementing  across the three elementary schools or what have you or some of these like a total waste of time,  which I find a lot in my profession. Like I just snoozed through them. Whatever. Click click click. Sure got to do it. But and then there's some that I'm like, this is super valuable to my clinical practice and to teaching practice. I would assume that, like the tips and tricks that you learn  are what in particular senior teachers really glad to or gravitate to is  like, how can I tweak it just a little bit better to grab that one kid? Or how can I maximize this curriculum?
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yeah, so letters is probably the first example that comes to mind. It's the third year of teachers taking this. We've been limited to about a dozen spots per year.

[R16602-304] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike Koski: That was our sign up amount. I think we had a dozen teachers who did it that year. And there was a second year, a second course that teachers took. So this year was gone. We're using title money to to offer those same slots.
TEXT> So I'm going to just offer a quick example of what you're talking about. And Melissa will remember this. So when we, we went to requiring teachers to put the objective. What what they want the objective for the day. What do we want students to know and be able to do by the end of the class? And so as an administrator, when I would visit a classroom, it got so habituated that the teacher would actually just point to it when when I walked into the room, because they knew that it had to be there. And so if you're consistent with the expectation, this is what you will be doing,  it becomes ingrained. Melissa knows you were there.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Can I. Speak to a couple of these things, please? Even pre mike letters. I was trained as a teacher in letters many, many, many years ago. It's come back

[R16602-318] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-06-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Them then. Because I think that's pretty essential.
TEXT> Absolutely. And for example I have two student teacher student, two interns with me next year. Right. And if there are available spots left, since we've already been training,  we'll slide them into that. We don't want to take it away from an existing staff member, right. As a way. We can also help with that.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Oh, good. Okay.

[R16602-322] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (floor control clipped into adjacent cluster) | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike Koski: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
TEXT> Other questions? Yep. Okay. Thank you. Next item on the agenda, Mr. McCusker, you're up for special education services that will be provided to the preschool for students in. 25. 26.
NEXT> Mike Koski: No, sir.

[R16602-327] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: It's on, say, 30.
TEXT> No, no. Yeah, well, it's 830, and I drove something like a thousand miles yesterday to be back for tonight. Thank you. And so I'm, I'm, I'm getting a little. Yeah. So, but, you know, the. I don't know, I got an email from Chelsea that Heather wanted me to come in about a month ago to present how we were going to do preschool. Provide preschool. Services, provide preschool services after. So, let's kind of walk through the slides. You all had them for a couple of days to look at. But I think it's and thank you, Melissa, for being here tonight. My moral support, she's really been a big help in helping organize  thoughts and where we need to go or where we want to go. But it's important that though the school board made a difficult decision to cut the funding for the current preschool program due to several issues that were cited. Can you hang my phone up? It's ringing over there.  The the important thing is, is that we're still under the obligation from idea to provide preschool services to children's three through 5 or 3 to entering kindergarten.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: And though the federal government and the state of New Hampshire does not specifically prescribe to us how the said services are to take place. And this is the amazing

[R16602-328] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: due to several issues that were cited. Can you hang my phone up? It's ringing over there. The the important thing is, is that we're still under the obligation from idea to provide preschool services to children's three through 5 or 3 to entering kindergarten.
TEXT> And though the federal government and the state of New Hampshire does not specifically prescribe to us how the said services are to take place. And this is the amazing thing. Every district does it differently. The obligation remains that services are to be provided.  And I've got, you know, I cited and I'm not going to go through it all tonight. Through Ida makes it very clear. Part B, section 619.  The requirement of faith is that we have to provide students three through five a free and appropriate public education. And those services, there's the least restrictive environment. And then the child find mandate that requires that state, locate, identify, evaluate children with disabilities, from birth to 21 and to provide services to said children. And then the other thing I just want to, before I get into what we're looking at is LR el determination. Hopefully you guys know what that stands for. But basically an a determination is the report card a district receives for how they do special education, pre-K through.  Well, it'd be through 22.  The the reports, are based in four different areas.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: The first is results based. The second areas assessment. The third area is compliance. The fourth area is additional factors Claremont for the and it's based on the previous school

[R16602-330] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: to handle preschool next year as we plan to 25, 26 school year. I've met with various stakeholders to try to figure out exactly how we're going to meet the needs of Claremont's 3 to 5 year olds who are in need of preschool services.
TEXT> What? We're a couple of things. What we were sure of going into the planning process. We have to provide related services to students identified with special education, speech, occupational therapy, physical therapy, vision, in some cases, social work, transportation, psychological services. We knew that we would have to provide services somewhere other than the current location because we're we can't meet where we were,  for various reasons. So, We were early on thinking of Maple being they just have some extra space  as well as possible, the possibility of push out services to other locations. Some things we've learned.  It's not just about related services.  It would not be a special education service without providing specifically designed instruction by a special education teacher. So we have to have a special education teacher who's providing a service to children with disabilities. The other thing I learned after speaking with several directors around the state who do not have  a district preschool that have some kind of a model like we're thinking about, nobody does it the same.  And that if we're not careful, the costs can quickly spiral out of control. For example, transportation for students, if we have a student who's, has to have services and we can't provide them here, we have to send them somewhere to receive those services.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Some of the other things we and I'm not totally sure if I have to start sending staff here, there and everywhere to provide those services. Transportation is going to

[R16602-331] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: And that if we're not careful, the costs can quickly spiral out of control. For example, transportation for students, if we have a student who's, has to have services and we can't provide them here, we have to send them somewhere to receive those services.
TEXT> Some of the other things we and I'm not totally sure if I have to start sending staff here, there and everywhere to provide those services. Transportation is going to get expensive that way. There could be some tuition issues. All of that stuff we want to control in-house.  And the other important thing was, is for all four of the different districts, three of which I spoke to, it looks different for all of them, and their costs are astronomical. One of them was Kennett, much bigger than Claremont. One was Raymond. And then I spoke with the director of. They've got an in-house program, but they did this whole charting thing on transportation, what it would cost if they had to transport kids everywhere. And I don't have the numbers with me, but it was more than double what they were currently paying on a transportation cost. So our model going into 25, 26 is we want to do a pre-K pilot program, that will be housed at Disney. We'll go into it more in a moment. We are going to probably have to do some drop in services where kids will students will come in, they'll receive their services, and then they'll just leave. We're looking at the possibilities and push out services where I will have to send some folks, whether its head start, Green Mountain, the All for one space, or trying to hopefully keep it all localized to minimize that part.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: And then on a very rare occasion, which we have none right now, but there could be that occasion that a home based, service has to be provided for student

[R16602-332] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: and then they'll just leave. We're looking at the possibilities and push out services where I will have to send some folks, whether its head start, Green Mountain, the All for one space, or trying to hopefully keep it all localized to minimize that part.
TEXT> And then on a very rare occasion, which we have none right now, but there could be that occasion that a home based, service has to be provided for student who's medically fragile and is either homebound or hospital bound, but I've not ever seen that. But it's not to say it couldn't happen. So the pilot program first, it's it's contingent to state approval. I've applied to have a preschool special education approval for a self-contained preschool program with the State of New Hampshire Department of Education. Those processes typically take 2 or 3 weeks.  Probably the first time I hear back from them, they'll say, you need to fix this. You need to change that. It's going to be some tweaking of documents, making sure they have everything. So it could it theoretically, at best I will hear back within two weeks. Could be longer. We know how the state works. So we're looking for approval of a special ed environment, which allows a max of 12 students with one teacher.  The program format is still under consideration. Some would like to see  a pilot program that's five days a week.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: We target 12 students. I'm. I'm struggling more with a three day in a two day split to try to maximize pre-K exposure to our most needy students. The targeted

[R16602-333] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: know how the state works. So we're looking for approval of a special ed environment, which allows a max of 12 students with one teacher. The program format is still under consideration. Some would like to see a pilot program that's five days a week.
TEXT> We target 12 students.  I'm. I'm struggling more with a three day in a two day split to try to maximize pre-K exposure to our most needy students. The targeted group of students that we're looking at, first, they've got to be identified for special education services. They will. It will only be for a student with an IEP. It'll be targeted to students  who we anticipate will be going to kindergarten for the 2627 school year. So they'll come for a year pre-K. We have them ready to go to kindergarten the following year. Students who display multiple disabilities  or or present with global developmental delay. And then the preschool area focus for the pilot program, there will be related services. There will be special education services. And then there will be access to a school based community. One of the things Melissa talked to some of her staff  in one of the second grade teachers have already said, if the preschool comes here, we're going to be there, buddy classroom, and we're going to be the non identified pairs for them, if you will.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: We'll have snack with them. We'll do special things with them. They'll have easier access to a school nurse. Right now. The middle school nurse would cover for the preschool

[R16602-337] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: Can't you comment? Sure.
TEXT> So clearly this excites me to no end. Because I also think it represents a lot of the key points that you all made during that deliberation of what to do with the preschool program. One, this is targeting just identified students. First and foremost, you all said we're not giving up on preschool. We need to revamp it. We need to rethink it. We need to we need some time to kind of come together and determine what's really appropriate. And how do we create that high quality program. We've said for many years, preschool really belongs in our elementary schools. Really that's that's the best model, right. So for and and just as a  side note, Disney has hosted kindergarten previously or pre-K. Previously we had a preschool classroom for several years at Disney. So  not new to to Disney art at all. And then I had the the luxury of being the Ellie a rep for preschool, even housed here at the Tech Center for a year. So I was able to be part of the program there.  So I think my my big hope as, as Mike said, the program formats still to be like, you know, maybe Mrs. Lewis can convince them they come at 830 and they get three hours instead of two and a half.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Those kinds of tweaks that we can make. But we really want to start testing some of the things that you all have even started talking about here. Universal pre-K.

[R16602-339] Melissa Lewis | Disnard School Principal | 2025-06-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: preschool program. I've shared with Mike that my desire isn't that it's the program is housed at Disney. This is a Disney classroom, and we'll have the same expectations of every other classroom. Staff will have the same expectations of all of my other staff.
TEXT> With that also comes all of the support that every other staff member gets in our building.  And I think that's key. I also go back to the presentation we heard from DMG Group about where kind of people's time goes in the world of special education. And we know in our previous model, a lot of time was going to some of those housekeeping things that my secretarial staff will be able to absorb. So again, I think we can we can get moving in the right direction of getting time on task with kids so that we see the growth that we want. And we can also develop a really clear assessment plan so that we can document growth and progress. To you all.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Presentation or.

[R16602-344] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: in there, I guarantee you next year we'd start the year with a child at home or in a hospital that we would have to meet their needs. Mrs. Hawkins had sent me some questions, and I'm going to answer them now, if that's okay.
TEXT> And then I'll open it up. But the first is is she asked, are we providing transportation? And I think Mary is still on with us, but yes, is prescribed prescribed as a related service per the students IEP. And, I believe that when Mary did the budget, she did not touch the pre-K transportation line in the current budget. Are you there, Mary?
NEXT> Mary Henry: No, I didn't I did not cut this.

[R16602-346] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mary Henry: No, I didn't I did not cut this.
TEXT> If you want to check. And then Mrs. Hawkins asked if there would be, like, pairs not within the program itself. It is only going to be a special ed program, but again. Mrs. Lewis's team is very excited about the fact of having the pre-K there. And they, they're they're looking to share meaningful experiences with the pre-K students. How many students do we have planned for those sessions? Again, the state approval is only 12 students per teacher. So, and then for this to be a meaningful education program, it will be important that we have  a continuity of services so that these students can maximize meaningful gains for school readiness. Again, whether it's a five day or a three and two split is still, up for a little bit of debate. But I think if we do a three and two split, we can meet all of our four year olds. We'll be going to kindergarten the following year. Mary, did I properly.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yes. Sorry I wasn't I guess I was presentation, but yes, I never touched the budget line for our transportation. So that is all set. But you are right.

[R16602-359] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 (answering the chair's special-edu | 2025-06-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: So would we be required to have a special education teacher if we didn't have this in a House program?
TEXT> Yes. Because you still have to have a special education teacher who can provide special education services, regardless of where the students are. You have to have that person. Yes, ma'am.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Crawford.

[R16602-367] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: Well we'll have to write. And that will all come with an IEP team meeting. And the parents have to agree to it. So we've got a lot of work to do this summer.
TEXT> Okay. So it's it's the most in need students. Second question is the drop in services. Will they be housed at Disney Art?
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Everything will be there. So it doesn't make sense right. Move everybody from one building to another building and then stuff.

[R16602-370] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-06-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: It doesn't, but I just want it to be assured that that was true. The push out services. What, who identifies who qualifies for push out services?
TEXT> Any child with an IEP. Any any child who has.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So if there's a child with IEP.

[R16602-371] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-06-18
PREV> Mike McCosker: Any child with an IEP. Any any child who has.
TEXT> So if there's a child with IEP.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: And let's. Say.

