[R11825-142] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Nicole Gordon: limited community service opportunities throughout the pandemic last year. We've adjusted those. So now juniors in order to earn their privileges, their their open lunch card and things like that. They now instead of having 24, they can, earn that with 12 community service hours.
TEXT> Seniors, we've dropped that senior privilege requirement from 36 to 24 community service hours, again to compensate. However, it's very important to note that that does not  change our graduation requirement of 48 community service hours.  There were a few two sections that I had removed from the previous year.  We have a very brief section on study halls and a brief section about remote learning that we're hoping that we do not have to  worry about this year. Study halls. While senior study is still something that students can be scheduled into. We  no longer really have,  underclassmen study halls because we do have our advisory and flex periods.  Outside of that, those, I would say are the highlights.  And  other than that, there wasn't too much major. It was mostly the grading language.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I've got several things.

[R11825-147] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Nicole Gordon: It was not. That's something that I am happy to bring back. And develop a and work with our school counselors and administration to develop a section for. Because it's an important point. The only thing that I think we had included on page.
TEXT> I didn't know if you were going to convert the old try to convert the old grades to letter grades, or  because they're going to be kids with three years of.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: Write the.

[R11825-151] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Nicole Gordon: good suggestion. The only thing that comes close to that, I think, is on page 17 and 18. It goes through grades I could earn. And then what the weights of the new grades are going to be. But, the transcript issue can be clarified.
TEXT> Another thing is, community service. We had,   the administration and the high school administration had come to us last year, I think, wanting to get rid of community service because of the difficulty in getting kids to do it. And at that time,  the suggestion was made. How about 12 hours per year as a requirement?  Something to consider. I wanted to ask a few questions about staffing, if I could, what people do.  Is Nica Oates the career counselors? That a full time job?
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: No, that is a position that, to my understanding, was new last year. It is split, I believe 40% and 60%. Mike, I apologize if I was speaking with unity.

[R11825-159] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Student support. What is an Arc coordinator?
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: So the Arc is our academic resource center. Carla is a program assistant. So she's sort of in the same vein as, Paul Silva, who is our V Lacs and

[R11825-161] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Nicole Gordon: She's sort of a room where students can go. That's a smaller setting to work quietly. She was previously in last year's handbook, classified under para educators. But, it didn't really accurately reflect what she does. And that's why I added her in student support..
TEXT> Student assistance provider, Doug Pilcher SAP.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: Yeah, he is a contracted service that we share with Claremont Middle School. Okay. And he's been instrumental in counseling our students following some substance, infractions. But then kids are

[R11825-164] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Discipline program coordinator.
TEXT> So  with,  there were a few factors that came into that position.  We had,  David Bailey, who is our second assistant principal, kind of transitioning into,  working special ed six through 12 rather than doing the special ed coordination, just nine through 12 and working as assistant principal. And so when we sat down and we said, well, how do we maintain, what we've been doing for students? Instead of having that position, we shifted. David Silva, who was previously his title was ES monitor, into a more comprehensive type of role.  Where he won't just be in ES, he'll be out about in the building. He'll be assisting administration.  With things like attendance and truancy.  Other sorts of discipline related issues that come up. He's really fantastic working with students, but his position was sort of shifted and rebranded in light of the shift that happened  with.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: On the teacher scale.

[R11825-168] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the superinten | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: And then the last one is the T to be determined, disciplined program assistant.
TEXT> That was a position that was created out of the need to look at our discipline team. We currently don't have  a candidate  for that position. It was posted this summer.  This person would fulfill a lot of the same duties as the former ES coordinator.   And be working with students in that sort of setting.  And then we're helping assisting with  some of the attendance and discipline. I hesitate to call it clerical work, but like the data entry and and things like that.  It's not designed to be an additional administrative assistant role. It's really sort of a, it's kind of what I think of as utility role. And that position is sort of rebranded from what was formerly our campus monitor.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We have a campus monitor. Karen. Right. Karen Girardi.

[R11825-176] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that, I think it's in the perfect timing as well, with the new discipline laws coming out that everyone is trying to figure out about trying to keep kids in school and not have long term suspensions and all of those components that you mentioned.
TEXT> You know, we have the Arc, we have all of these things,  where we need to connect them or get kids in there accessing them more and, and turning them around. And I had a great discussion with Nicole.  And,  during the week and the data they're already looking at is to say in I mean, I'll say it, Pat said of the graduation. Nicole presented it with Pat, last, last presentation. We have to do a better job at that. And this is this is,  you know,  their their start at looking at things and also being supported by us being in there more, looking at what we can do to inform instruction. And  I really commend the efforts to to get after the the  problem and turn that graduation rate around.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So what attrition because this is more money for sure. So there was some other thing we didn't.

[R11825-178] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So what attrition because this is more money for sure. So there was some other thing we didn't.
TEXT> So we had another full time administrator that we don't have. So there was a  retirement  in the middle school. So David Bailey is now in charge of special ed programing for two schools. We didn't fill that position in the district. He is the now doing,  all of the team meetings and the programing to keep kids in district.
NEXT> Unidentified: All the way. Six.

[R11825-188] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Always.
TEXT> Thinking in terms of what he JazzTimes me for saying that  in Claremont where you serve thank you. From 1995 until 2018, on an inflation adjusted basis, your costs have increased 85%, while the number of students has declined 23%. During this time, you had a 14% increase in staffing. This is from the Commissioner of Ed with me,  protesting about SB 130. And so he's essentially telling me,  stop wasting money. That's basically what he's telling me there. And so I'm, I'm hypersensitive now to what looks like more staff. And so I want to make sure that we have that.  Again, as I've said, the counter narrative of, of, you know, the expenses and what it costs. When I get on a Concord and I'm testifying that,  we need more aid. I want to make sure that we're not wasting money as as he suggests we are.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And so I couldn't agree more. And that's why even in the first summer, you know, when we had all that transition, every time we have an opening, every time

[R11825-190] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we do in the strategic plan that we've adopted over the last two years has student achievement and student success in it as the driver. So you will not see in all of those positions were there last year. There's no new extra positions there.
TEXT> There's a repurposing of another talent. And if we didn't have the talent in individual and Mr. Bailey who could pull that off, we wouldn't have gone there. You know, we looked at iterations of it. We also looked at the long term effects that that would have to have consistency of kids that we keep in district  in also to have consistency in really reviewing and tightening up the the paraprofessional assignments, okay, so that they do meet the IEP and that they're driven and that it is  a review in a regular basis. Ben has done an amazing job at that over the past three years trying to pull that in, keep people in district and really get a hold on the on the special ed  placement and in program buildings. So that's you know, it's always front and center at our meetings.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So other. Questions, Steve.

[R11825-192] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Steve.' [86, 237, 331, 461] | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So other. Questions, Steve.
TEXT> One thing that that,  I gathered from the great question.  Is it sounds to me like there there has been a significant law change that requires the policy committee to make sure that our policies are up to date.  Around the disciplining of students by the sounds of things, because it sounds like it's a pretty comprehensive change because we're not just throwing around different titles and different functions of staff. So I think that needs to be something that we get the policy committee on ASAP. I would like to see a full presentation to the board,  in regards to how this law affects how we're sitting currently and what the at the next meeting, I'd kind of really like to see that because it's the one right before we start school.
NEXT> Unidentified: Is.

[R11825-196] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: You can send?
TEXT> So the the guidance is in term of long term exclusions okay. So basically you you can't have a kid out longer than the, the 10 or 20 days that, that  it used to be. So there's not a lot  you know, there's not a lot that we need to do in terms of  policy changes. We can present that and we will, and  we'll get the kind of boiler  plate stuff from from  the school association and things like that. I haven't seen a lot of substantial policy changes on that. It's more the implementation and having a system and having  ways to keep those students in. For us. We've always had, in the form mentioned all the interventions in programs that we have  that are offshoots and derivative of former,  alternative programs as, as the, as they're called. I think what we need to look at, and this is across the board in  the high school, the middle school all the way up is  and we had a meeting today looking at some of the  software tools to look at this. We have to be more of a,  a  really, constant reviewers of student data towards achievement to make that. So we should be looking at attendance. We should be looking at all those factors they scrutinize at the high school to turn that tied around. And and we will be. So we have and we will continue.
NEXT> Unidentified: Like I just mentioned something. Sure I, I.

[R11825-198] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (speaks as one of 'the special ed | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Like I just mentioned something. Sure I, I.
TEXT> Whatever work. We do around the. Law, I would like to be a part of it. One aspect of the law that. The special ed directors in the state are a little nervous about is that in lieu of suspensions and expulsions and things of that nature,  the law pushes teams to refer kids to special ed more often than they would have perhaps previously. So that's been scuttlebutt, you know, in my, you know, groups. So I'd like to be a part of that. You know, however that looks so.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well. The courts have always refer kids to special ed. They do. Doesn't mean you have to find them eligible.

[R11825-208] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> They're going to be kids that are going to be playing early mission admissions. They'll have to have their transcripts by November.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay.

[R11825-212] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Nicole Gordon: close to the start of school and having most of our students schedules finalized. I don't foresee that being a concern this year, but certainly if it were to come up, we'd address it. So that we weren't just kind of leaving students hanging. Okay.
TEXT> I would interpret that if I were there. There's no intentional study halls. Yeah. And there may be study halls. I mean, you can't if a kid drops a class, you know, four weeks into the class, they're going to study hall, and I don't.
NEXT> Unidentified: Know the.

[R11825-230] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Moving on. Be welcome to Mary Ellen Gennaro.
TEXT> Yeah. So, doctor Janeiro comes from us  with extensive experience energy.  Influence. Change maker.  She she is, English major. Was was a  unanimous  choice  of  the committee.  We got her  interviewed and up here as soon as possible.  We're really confident  from her experiences, which I'll let her talk about and what she brings. And from her entry plan and meeting with staff and supporting teaching and learning and interventions for students and alternative program experience. And she's a she's a perfect fit for the community and the time. And without any further into do  I do. I'd like to introduce doctor general.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: Thank you. I'll be brief. It's warm in here. And we've been looking at Covid stuff, longer than probably anyone wants to revisit that. But, thank you so much for,

[R11825-273] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: Now it's already there.
TEXT> Now we need clarity between a visitor and a parent visiting to see their kid play.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Well, I brought that up last time and we went with the all visitors included parents because I brought that up last time very distinctly, right.

[R11825-534] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: My understanding was, is that we were going to discuss the whole vaccination proposal. Maybe I misunderstood in regards to you said there were some creative ideas.
TEXT> Back to school not related to that. Back to school. It was off and running and I was trying to make the point before and not well enough that that that they're not connected in any way, that that's a separate vaccination unrelated to incentivizing our, our  if you, what we're pursuing in terms of,  with the admin team today in terms of coming out with a  what was proposed was to pursue having a  gift cards  to a scale of about $25. We spoke about. But basically the concept of having,  gift cards for people upon completion of vaccination. So that would be an individual incentive that we start with students and staff internally, see how it goes, and then roll that out to the general public to scale.  Once we once we have that  contained, we still have to vet,  we still have to vet,  how we handle all the hippo releases and things like that through that in a smooth way to protect confidentiality. We think we can pull it off. We have the assurance from the local provider that there are enough vaccines to,  to kind of do that if we were to do it, to scale. These are the things that we checked on  kind of on the fly preparing for this,  today.  And,  and we feel confident that we can roll something out that way.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What we in to reiterate, we're talking about being around that that price point to incentivize people who who haven't been particularly focusing upon. And Ronnie could have nailed that

[R11825-535] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: vaccines to, to kind of do that if we were to do it, to scale. These are the things that we checked on kind of on the fly preparing for this, today. And, and we feel confident that we can roll something out that way.
TEXT> What we in to reiterate, we're talking about being around that that price point to incentivize people who who haven't been  particularly focusing upon. And Ronnie could have nailed that a lot better than I can.  Of the exact numbers that you can see in the statistics of of, we really need to increase that number for students.  Of the staff that we who haven't proven that they would get vaccinated show the proof of that, they would be a part of that. We also discussed if we were to continue this throughout the season, if and when there are accessible boosters and the like, because most of us were vaccinated in  March. Okay. In March, April timeline when it rolled out  like all the  educators and that again, that would be a $25 type of thing just as a token to do it. The  and again, I  understand what a hot issue. This is  and how people feel about the rewards and whatnot.  But that's that's what we spoke about. We also spoke about having a small,  which I really like this idea. I think particularly for, for teenagers, you're going to do it anyway if you're on the fence and you might get a  mountain bike type of  situation.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's what we just that was one example we had. We thought of having some other pool almost like a 5050 as well, something about a $1,000 for an adult

[R11825-536] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that's what we spoke about. We also spoke about having a small, which I really like this idea. I think particularly for, for teenagers, you're going to do it anyway if you're on the fence and you might get a mountain bike type of situation.
TEXT> That's what we just that was one example we had. We thought of having some other  pool almost like a 5050 as well, something about a $1,000 for an adult you get. And you could be entered into this, I think, in terms of how  what we would anticipate kind of a cap value to use. And again, the point made by, by Mr. Horsey of the,  the money allocated to us from the federal government for, for cares that is not a part of,  of  or or impactful immediately to the property value that everyone  in assessments in the town, which is a very fair point. So that was that was what we proposed. We ballpark what we would expect that to be. If you just have everything  to be a dollar value of approximately, we didn't we really, you know, but maybe capping that at 20,000 or $30,000 if we needed to go that high. But  then that's that's all within the purview of the board. And it was something that I thought it was suggested before that we come back with a way in which we would think and we could pull that off. That's the way we feel most confident  in pulling it off. And I mean, I even think anecdotally if that was my kid back in the day, they're getting it anyway.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And you and you're dropping them off at school and it's another thing to button up and it's, you know, that that's how I view it personally. That's my personal

[R11825-547] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Josh.' [229]; answers 'Yes' | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: John.
TEXT> So just a clarification on what you mentioned of like possibly eventually rolling out the incentive to the general public. Do you mean like parents and others connected to students and staff or.
NEXT> Unidentified: I don't.

[R11825-549] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: I don't.
TEXT> Know where we want to go with that. I would like to model it slow with our known population of kids who are indoors. Right. And I'm not even talking our target, really. It's all this. It's the complete safety of everyone, right? But we know that this is going to take time to roll out. We know that we have two to a couple of months of lead time, advertising time to do all these things, get it going. We know that people won't become, you know, when they get the two shots, just like before. They're not going to be good to go. If we if we said we're doing this today and we had an exact plan, we'd be lucky to have everyone or have this being packed for students and staff by what, say, November when we're going indoors anyway. So it just makes practical sense. Based on what we did last year, we are still going to we are still going to and I don't want you to think that we're not going to do everything we can with our community partners to promote and have everyone come to the clinics. We'll we'll host them like we did before. Vaccination will be a good agent with that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I would prefer to do it on weekends and, and in general and not tax the school and environment and stuff during the week. All of that was farmed out

[R11825-556] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short affirmations and roll-call responses f | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Families.
TEXT> And kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I would be going for for families.

[R11825-567] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because open House will come.
TEXT> Up quick. That's right. And that was that was one I'm also I they were talking about I, I forgot they, they had a few other creative ways to incentivize it for kids. That just made a lot of sense also to spark local businesses coming back. Right. Could you have could could local food, might there be other $25 target value range incentives, both that are,  you know, say kids get into pizza things like could that might also spark donations from the community. It might spark other types of ways where people want to get on board to help this for the business community, for the, you know, for the for the region to add things. People made good points. I can't think of a lucid example right now, but also of other  in-kind things people could donate, like time services. It was a pretty robust conversation. Again, we just started that,  and we'll have more on that, but I think it's a creative way to do things.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: This is this may surprise people.

[R11825-571] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Yes' when Heather Whitney is c | 2021-08-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: we get the adults vaccinated in the community, because everything is going to be predicated on community spread, even if we don't have clusters in the school, if we have issues in the community, that's when the kids are going to be masked, messed up.
TEXT> And I want to do everything that we can to limit the disruption of learning in schools and and limit the disruption of, of just being normal in school. And so those are my two points I have uncomfortable with targeting and incentivizing children. And I think we should focus on the wider community.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Incentivizing the wider community.

[R11825-579] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Joshua Lambert: a poster or posters around the school that says, are your parents vaccinated? Know if they get vaccinated, you get a school shirt or something silly, like, like it's not money. It's not like inviting them to get vaccinated. It's just like, hey, like something.
TEXT> And I, I just want to make the point clear to it, and I, I, I know it's assumed, but I just want to say it, we cannot vaccinate those students without a parent sign off. They are the parent. They they do sign off as coercive as can be to their parents and things like that. All that dynamic, having a few of them myself in trials and tribulations. But but they are the,  the agent, the Guardian, the signer for that. So it is a,  in, in, in terms of,  other issues that we have thought about that I still have to get legal opinion on indemnification for future  things that might come up for things unknown about  anything like that. Whatever is the boilerplate recommended by the state and legal, we could do that. I don't see it being any more excessive than the the sign off that the Department of Ed has in your packet that I have in the presentation. I don't see it being much more involved than that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We don't.

[R11825-586] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: To vote.
TEXT> So I'm going to make a motion that we authorize the administration to encumber $20,000 to be reimbursed through CARES funds to, investigate and develop incentives for students in their families, for CARES for Covid vaccinations.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll second that I. Can I yeah. Okay.

[R11825-593] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Students, staff and families. Still second again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah. So second.

[R11825-662] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, runs agenda and  | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: around 25. I don't know how they get away with for teachers there for a long time. And only the one section he didn't have a lot of it was a great class, but he didn't have a it wasn't like a 25 section. So.
TEXT> So so I actually researched that. Yeah. And  they've we've got five people who teach English. Yeah. And kids are required to take four credits of English. Yeah. Kids are required to take three and a half credits of social studies. Yeah. And of that, Our  what we're expecting kids to do far exceeds the, the state requirement. We're required by full credit. And so we're teaching a us a world history that's a full credit and the state requirement is a half a credit. So I'm not sure why we're why we're not looking at rather than adding again adding staff. You know where I'm going with that instead of looking at ways to,  need less staff. So that's my that's my concern.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I mean.

[R11825-686] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: So is everybody in the right going.
TEXT> So there are there are no new positions. I wanted to highlight one of Ben's like a a  shout out. So we, we contracted with New England Center for children to come in with a curriculum to build a program that had a nice price tag on it. If you look at the person, I thought you were going to go for  another person, the one at bluff to replace the contracted teacher. We abandoned that contracted teacher, created our own at a substantial savings learned.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I know.

[R11825-708] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: And it looked like seven teachers.
TEXT> When we did it last year, we we had seven teachers that we could apply to keep the numbers  between right around 17 for regular  middle to upper elementary in for k  in first grade, our target was to be around 12 or 14  when we vetted the total numbers that we did before. We feel that we'd be in line for that. In general  sweeping terms, it would mean rolling in the preschool center and everything about the preschool center into one of the traditional elementaries, reconfiguring who would be where. We don't know exactly who would be where.  But what we proposed when we looked at it before is that we would have the two larger schools in size and classrooms. Maple and Dessner,  have  the first couple of grades in the fourth and fifth would be at bluff, which has the fewest classrooms. All of them have,  you know, full amenities. What we lack at in remember that the pre-K was a remnant of the tech program in previous. So even though it's an amazing program with peer models, typical models, and special ed  students in there as mandated, it would be better for for everyone if it was a full run of a regular elementary school.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You also have, when you hold those teachers Paris and resources in, you have more of an ability at a larger scale to to have more specialized services. Because if

[R11825-713] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Vermont. They had to.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. But in our case, we're looking for results. First, we're looking for the best impacts.  We also like the benefits of having,  even though we also outed all the things that were unresolved the first time around that we know we have to resolve. And some of that was the transportation. Some of that was the number of transitions where you have more transitions,  and arguments are  made either way. One is that,  you could, you know, for example, you could make an argument that the upper level student can mentor the, the,  the younger folks. You can also make an argument that in programmatically. Otherwise it's better to separate  for, for for where they are in age.  But what we, what we have heard from others and what we  think is just a different way to look at it. There is, you know,  the transition to this would be tough and things like that, but,  I'll, I'll change is what we also spoke about. And a lot of people called in after last time, way back in the before time and said that, you know, it used to be like that. It used to be that we traveled in a pack.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: For whatever reason, it was growing pains within the district. It has happened before. And also that you could make the argument when kids go from 1 to 1 that

[R11825-714] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I'll change is what we also spoke about. And a lot of people called in after last time, way back in the before time and said that, you know, it used to be like that. It used to be that we traveled in a pack.
TEXT> For whatever reason, it was growing pains within the district. It has happened before. And also that you could make the argument when kids go from 1 to 1 that they're not just getting to know each other when they hit the middle school, that everything that they've learned along the way, they've stronger bonds. There's more perseverance, there's more resilience, all the things that are part of the strategic plan. So we have our work to do, though. And we also said in this presentation that we want to be rock solid, that it's a good decision to make in this timeline to do it. But if it takes another year, it takes another year. So that's that's something that we don't  know exactly yet. If it's if it's all beneficial and we get those yes to transportation. We we survey the community. We see what the impacts are. We do it the right way, slow and steady. And it's a go. It's a go, but it does a lot of other. There are a lot of questions to answer along the road there. So we we we know we have our work cut out with that as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So Josh.

[R11825-717] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report; board ref | 2021-08-18
PREV> Joshua Lambert: So just for a quick clarification on the pre-K. So right now there's only pre-K offered in this building or is it a maple as well? I don't remember what I was.
TEXT> Looking so so yeah. So we have an early childhood center here and kind of the, the, the history of that was for, for special ed push in our regular models. What we're hoping that we would be able to do is offer,  the benefits of having  kids in early to start literacy, identification, all the other stuff a year earlier, literally that. And that's our particularly in light of and I, we haven't even gone down the road. Could you make the argument in the short term for the CARES money? I think it's a solid argument when you're you're gaining a year back, not just for the impacted families and others, but going forward. I think you could. We're not there yet. We want to vet it in the regular budget. If that can go in, it's it's gravy, so to speak. But we but that but that's where we are and it's we're just finishing what we, we're deferred doing because of, because of Covid you know okay.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So next meeting Discipline updates I'm interested in Stephen brought it up to if we could get just a, maybe an email of what those changes are, maybe a quick

[R11862-25] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [36-59]; s | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: really pushing that. It is a way to, to help with the overall situation. Next case. And that's, that's the downward dip that we're talking about that we're like. Like to see next case okay. Sullivan County again. This is the current rate of transmission.
TEXT> And they're double  the next, the next couple of documents.  People have asked and written in as to where and how we predicate our plan. What this is, is  just showing the toolkit that we've used.  And we also have the matrix that the board adopted. This is the guidance that the state of New Hampshire is using  and recommending the schools that flowchart the student staff screening algorithm is going to be our Bible. It's on every nurses and administrators.  Desk and more. So the nurses. Okay. We talk about it and,  that that is what we follow. The next slide is and I know that we're going to come to it  later. We could talk about it after this, but this is, this is some of the things  that  some of the changes to adopt in the matrix that we talked about with the administrative team, and we thought it looked pretty clean until we had an administrative retreat. And we and principles are getting  grilled on things like, what's the difference between a visitor and a spectator? When do they become that? Some of the nuanced  applications of some of the applications to different opening events, the high school events versus the elementary school events?  And being able to be inside where there aren't many options at the high school, there isn't an outside option.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There is an inside option very different from from some of the other plans that the, that the elementary schools used all upon where how we left it last in

[R11862-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [36-59]; s | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: think it follows exactly where we left off before, but makes it more succinct for the general public. The first is all the way across on masking. So our recommended changes are there in the highlights recommended in all indoor spaces only. Outdoor mass optional.
TEXT> I think that's where the board was. That's certainly where the  administrators are very different outside than inside.  And  and that's that's what we felt are required in all indoor and shared spaces only as well  outdoor mass optional and moderate.  And that was a change from before. It was more restrictive before I required all indoor shared spaces only outdoor mass optional with six feet of distance. Okay.  It when we were in substantial to kind of open, open things up a little bit more. Some of the feedback that we had, particularly I think that was and correct me if I'm wrong  on this, which I could be wrong, but that's with  with CDC guidance about promoting being outside without a mask o as much as possible in space, particularly as kids on breaks and going out. So we wanted to make sure we had that in there down in the visitor section. It might seem simple, but it wasn't an application in, in a, in an events throughout the district so that we're calling visitors  a visitor to school during the school day. I think that was the intent of both the board and the administrative team were just more explicit with that  in this in the next.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I don't have the second page. I'm sorry, but if you look in your hard copy, folks. It should it should have on the other side of athletics, the only

[R11862-47] Ronnie | Lead nurse, Claremont School District (self-identified as lead nurse [ | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: can apply this in different situations, that you don't have to do a whole school, you can do populations and that, the turnaround time on this testing is as fast as they say 1 or 2 days, because there's great applications for specific subgroups so.
TEXT> High on the lead nurse for  for Sussex.  And so the  so the surveillance testing or a SaaS as it's called, is a state.  A state funded project. And it would no money would come out of our budget or anything. The state pays for it. And it's essentially surveillance testing under certain circumstances. The,  we could test if there was  any kind of an outbreak. They could come in and do testing.  We can test for symptomatic that I need a little more information on which I'm looking for, because we also don't want to turn into the place where,  if somebody sends, potentially sends their child to school sick and we would test them, that's that's not the purpose of the program. We would also do it for,  for certain for certain groups. So, for example, I'm looking what we were talking about was sports, sporting events. Sports teams like football, you know, their face to face.  Maybe have weekly surveillance testing on on sports teams. Same thing for like in the winter for  for basketball. You know, that way we know what we're we can kind of get ahead of the curve a little bit and not  wait for somebody to tell us that they've tested positive.
NEXT> Ronnie: Another place that we're looking forward are in our, or in our classrooms, like our K-2 classrooms with our special needs children who who can't verbally tell us what's going

[R11862-54] Ronnie | Lead nurse, Claremont School District (self-identified as lead nurse [ | 2021-09-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: bag, send them all off. If there's any positive in that one bag, then they come back and they retest. The kids identify if they're which child tests positive, and then be able to parse out who needs to quarantine and what needs to happen.
TEXT> So my only concern about the pool testing is that especially in our elementary schools, is that now that means two tests. So so that's my concern with the pool testing is if somebody does come back positive, you then have to retest to find out who that positive child is. And so sometimes just getting them to do that second test, it's it's not always as easy as you know, because it does have to to go in the nose.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So it's not the same as the.

[R11862-61] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Ronnie: It is just like that.
TEXT> But so the only reason I was bringing this up is that if this is a, you know, this sounds crazy, but if this is a mechanism where we can quickly and proactively isolate students, then this may be a way to mitigate mask use in school. That's all I have to say about that. And it's really a noninvasive way of just isolating people.
NEXT> Ronnie: And and you're not.

[R11862-83] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; addressed as 'Frank' [584]; ca | 2021-09-01
PREV> Ronnie: school population, but we have a large special needs population. We also, you know, we have a lot of littles that, you know, that don't want anything near their nose. And I and I get that. And I'm, you know, I appreciate that as well.
TEXT> So. So you had mentioned, Ronnie that this was going to keep kids in school better than what we were doing.
NEXT> Ronnie: Yes. Because what would happen is, if you have somebody with, let's say, one of my little guys in our, in our K-2 program who's, who's nonverbal is showing like

[R11862-84] Ronnie | Lead nurse, Claremont School District (self-identified as lead nurse [ | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: So. So you had mentioned, Ronnie that this was going to keep kids in school better than what we were doing.
TEXT> Yes. Because what would happen is,  if you have somebody with, let's say, one of my little guys in our, in our K-2 program who's, who's nonverbal is showing like has the runny nose and has the classic symptoms of Covid. I would then need to to to send that student home. And and they would need to go and get tested maybe and have a more invasive test at one of our local places where  where here if we're doing it in that classroom, you know, it is just a little swipe inside their nose and, and it gets sent off as a, as opposed to, you know, and it also takes the burden,  off of the parents having to take the time off from work to, to go and get them, to get them, you know, to get them tested. It's  the monetary because and and  the state is, you know, the state is picking up the tab. I'm sorry, but they are, you know, it's part of their program. They've contracted. So so there are a lot of benefits that that aren't just,  you know, and then we're able to keep that student in school. If they do happen to test negative, I can just say to the teacher, he's got a runny nose and a cold. He doesn't have Covid. And then we would just do our best to manage that based off of, you know, his symptoms.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I didn't think if it keeps kids in school better than the alternative.

[R11862-85] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; addressed as 'Frank' [584]; ca | 2021-09-01
PREV> Ronnie: school. If they do happen to test negative, I can just say to the teacher, he's got a runny nose and a cold. He doesn't have Covid. And then we would just do our best to manage that based off of, you know, his symptoms.
TEXT> I didn't think if it keeps kids in school better than the alternative.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Sending them home.

[R11862-90] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Josh.' [140], [294]; 'Thanks, J | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Josh.
TEXT> I'm understanding correctly. If the child were to test positive, then you could go ahead and test the whole class instead of, like, isolating the class.
NEXT> Ronnie: So what we would do is we would actually at the, at the we would do for those classrooms, we would test them all at the same time. But it

[R11862-95] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [36-59]; s | 2021-09-01
PREV> Unidentified: So and.
TEXT> And I think for our just our discussion and overview, how this was presented a few months ago was that you kind of had to do everyone. It wasn't as you didn't have the freedom to do in the and there weren't many takers at the district level that way. The fact that we could use it either in a, in a school, a group or figure it out and I, I do think, as Ronnie said, as well, just the fact of being able to keep a kid in longer, if that's the only thing we get from it, I think it's worth, you know, investigating. We'll we'll get all the details.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But but to clarify, the student in there talking about Johnny, we have to leave school and be tested anyway. No, no. What I'm saying is that if if they

[R11862-96] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: out and I, I do think, as Ronnie said, as well, just the fact of being able to keep a kid in longer, if that's the only thing we get from it, I think it's worth, you know, investigating. We'll we'll get all the details.
TEXT> But but to clarify, the student in there talking about Johnny, we have to leave school and be tested anyway. No, no. What I'm saying is that if if they are symptomatic, the policy is now. And finding surveillance.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Testing.

[R11862-101] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Ronnie: Yes.
TEXT> That if the child is symptomatic the parent would be required to take them to a physician. Yes. Get tested. The child would have to stay home until the test comes back. Yes. And then so this would mitigate.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Or ten days.

[R11862-112] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair's 'Steve' [117], [211], [604] pre | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve.
TEXT> I guess I  I'm  seeking a little bit more clarification in regards to how the current policy where if Johnny has a sniffle and now we think that the policy was, is that we would send him home to get casting, I get that this would eliminate having to send him home to get testing. But our big theme is my understanding is, is to make sure that that person is removed because they're showing symptoms. So I'm trying to figure out how that mitigates how that alleviates that student from continuing to spread. Because if he does pop hot, in this case, he's been in the classroom 4 or 5 hours more  with that whole class. Thus, when it creates more, more likely to spread than the current policy.
NEXT> Ronnie: Not necessarily. It depends on the child. It depends on their immune system, it depends on social distancing. And we're also masking at this point right now. So and to

[R11862-114] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; addressed as 'Frank' [584]; ca | 2021-09-01
PREV> Ronnie: until they test negative. If they test positive, it's ten days. Whereas and but the nice thing about this new algorithm, and I'm getting off topic, is that the children no longer have to be home for 20 days. So it's it's ten days regardless.
TEXT> So I'm going to remind everyone that all we're doing here is simply listening and investigating. We're not. So I don't know if we need to if we're at the extent we need a motion for this, or we can just say we're talking about Rob. Fairness to you is that,  the the administration and Ronnie have just presented a, an algorithm or a plan on proactive testing within the school that would, hopefully keep kids in school longer and back more frequently and streamline the process, which is, according to Mike patron, has been somewhat dissembled around, easily accessible testing for people. So it would bring it back into the school, but it's being covered by state funds. Okay. So we're at the point now where we are.  We're not voting on the.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Implementation.

[R11862-125] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair's 'Steve' [117], [211], [604] pre | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: go down that road for the outlay for the equity and for the audits and all the other stuff, it we don't think it's worth the time to do that right now, even though it's, you know, so that that's, that was that's our recommendation.
TEXT> I'm going to make a motion to accept that recommendation and that we would table the incentives for vaccination of the public, staff and student.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'll second that.

[R11862-131] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Principal Barry' [11];  | 2021-09-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: this new one, not having been around for the previous transition into into competency based grading. Charlie's recommendation was to do what we did back then, which was to simply let, the report cards, the transcripts show both grades. So as students move on out.
TEXT> Our seniors will have three years of degrading and they'll have one year of the A, B, C scale.  This is what colleges look at. And they see as far as what our grading scales mean. And they're used to what we've done for the last decade.  And they'll they're used to seeing multiple kind of grading scale sometimes on one. Transcript. So the recommendation was to do what we did before and to just kind of let it ease out over the next four years until there's nothing but the A, B, C scale on on transcripts and report cards and report cards that we're, we're now going to be sending home for progress reports every year and a report card every quarter. Hard copy old school in the mail, as well as obviously being able to access that at any time on power school. So  parents, what that looks like is on the progress report. It's kind of short and sweet on the report cards. Parents will see both to they'll see the learning target grades. They'll see how students are doing on all the learning targets.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But they'll also see the A, B, C and what the the numerical grade is for their students. And we had a great turnout at last night's Welcome Back night.

[R11862-157] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (self-identified [231], ASR 'I lo | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we outside when the high school is inside high school's campus? They can't go outside all kinds of other factors that didn't play well in public, but it wasn't. We thought of it, but we didn't think we had to be that granular for for.
TEXT> So I  love Melissa Lewis, the principal at Dinard. I think the confusion comes at a few levels for the elementary level. One, our population is the group that cannot be vaccinated, right. So we're trying to protect them even more right now.  Second, when when families hear that that events can be held, indoor events can be held at other schools where  students are of the age they can be vaccinated. That's a very different story. But it's still hard to accept the fact that you can't come into your child's kindergarten classroom on their first day of school, and we certainly understand that  for us, and I and I know the board feels a little bit differently on this. For us, a visitor is someone who is not a staff for student. And so for us, the time of day that they're in the building is really irrelevant. If you're not a staff or student, you are a visitor to our school and we love visitors.  So it's very it's very difficult for us at the elementary level to discriminate how a  parent who wants to walk their child to class every day is different than a parent attending an open house with 300 people,  so  we don't have the sport level to think about in terms of spectators.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: So it's a little bit different at the elementary level. But, I think principals of had conversations. To us, a visitor is someone who's not staff or student, and it's

[R11862-158] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (self-identified [231], ASR 'I lo | 2021-09-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: at the elementary level to discriminate how a parent who wants to walk their child to class every day is different than a parent attending an open house with 300 people, so we don't have the sport level to think about in terms of spectators.
TEXT> So it's a little bit different at the elementary level. But,  I think principals of had conversations. To us, a visitor is someone who's not staff or student, and  it's a little bit different when we start referring to them as spectators, you know, as an attendee at an open house, a spectator or a visitor. And so  when it causes confusion at the administrative team level, it's harder for us to justify it and our decision and feel confident in our decision making to the public,  because we have many people who thank us for not holding indoor events, and we have many people who are cursing at us right now for not holding indoor events. So that's that's just the topic of conversation between administrators right now.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Joshua.

[R11862-164] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Thanks, Josh.
TEXT> I'd like to make a motion to amend the decision matrix to change the mass recommendation at the moderate level to strongly recommending masks for students and teachers, and notifying families that that recommendation is in place instead of requiring them, and to change the visitor policy in the substantial range to the discretion of the individual school leadership.
NEXT> Unidentified: Second.

[R11862-167] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Josh.' [140], [294]; 'Thanks, J | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Second, and further discussion. Josh was actually first. Steve.
TEXT> I, I, I like the idea about the discretion in schools for visitors because that makes a lot of sense.  I know right now in my school a child sound. We're not allowing visitors at all. Like we're not doing any open houses or anything like that, and we've got that vulnerable population.  I don't agree about changing the mask thing because again, this matrix is a state guided matrix. So these decisions are similar throughout the entire state. So I don't think we need to make any huge changes like that. Whereas discretionary on visitors is kind of different based on the population being served.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: I think a big thing to remember about The Matrix is it's a recommendation. It's not a mandate. I know even over Newport, they're doing a whole different ball game

[R11862-172] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Josh, I'm going to see if somebody else has a comment first. Heather.
TEXT> I would agree with Steve, insofar as,  parents not having to wear masks as classified as visitors in the minimal. The reason I would disagree for the moderate is that that's where we're starting to talk about community spread. And last year, as everybody here knows, that it was kind of the the belief of the board. And it seemed to be the case that we recognized that the transmission, that transmission that's going to occur in the school enters from the community, and that our mitigation measures were solely based on keeping what's happening out in the community to to not affecting what's going to happen in school. So we could keep as many students in school as possible. So once we go to the moderate level, then you have a much higher increase of adults who haven't been vaccinated unwittingly,  bringing the virus into the school or is at the minimum level, not so much. So that's the only thing I would,
NEXT> Unidentified: I would.

[R11862-193] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (self-identified [231], ASR 'I lo | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Melissa showed some examples of what exactly how it plays.
TEXT> Someone who is not staff or student. That's right. That's that's for me the easiest way to explain it.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: I don't know why we have to distinguish a parent against anyone else. They're still a visitor. They're not there all the time. It doesn't matter.

[R11862-195] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Joshua Lambert: I don't know why we have to distinguish a parent against anyone else. They're still a visitor. They're not there all the time. It doesn't matter.
TEXT> Well, I think we distinguish for the reason that Steve was talking about is that if transmission is if we're having kids come into school without masks in the minimal right, and they're the person that would be most likely to transmit the virus to them would be household members, which would be a parent or guardian, then there wouldn't be any reason for there to be a higher risk of having that parent or guardian entering the school than the child that's in that environment, entering the school. But I do agree with you that anybody beyond the household or guardian, that would be a high risk. I would say.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: That's that's what I'm saying. Like if a mother that a child lived with come in with a grandmother that doesn't live with them.

[R11862-196] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Josh.' [140], [294]; 'Thanks, J | 2021-09-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: be a higher risk of having that parent or guardian entering the school than the child that's in that environment, entering the school. But I do agree with you that anybody beyond the household or guardian, that would be a high risk. I would say.
TEXT> That's that's what I'm saying. Like if a mother that a child lived with come in with a grandmother that doesn't live with them.
NEXT> Unidentified: Grandma, grandma.

[R11862-201] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Were you going to, Mike?' [347] | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: For the discussion on the motion as it.
TEXT> Mike I think one way is you control the visitors. You control what you do for events. You control a number of visitors that are allowed, if you're having an awards day, an awards night at at Disney, then you say each student gets to bring two people or you split it up. So it's not every great. Yes, you you limit the number of people that you let in the building and then you have to police who's masking, who's not because you have greater opportunity for distancing. At least at the minimal stage.
NEXT> Unidentified: I, I.

[R11862-223] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced as 'Principal Barry' [11];  | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, Pat.
TEXT> I would I would urge. The board to consider that. And Melissa, you know, phrased it beautifully a moment ago. To me, we are very much in a position where we, especially at this time of year, trying to build relationships and trust with our families now  more than perhaps ever. Last night, what I saw was 200 or. So. People come in. Not a. Single. Person questioned whether they needed to wear a mask. And the ten students that we had that came there to give tours, I know would not have come if they knew that people were going to come in without masks. It was comforting to them. I don't know how many people didn't show up because we said you needed to wear a mask. I don't have that number, but I. I would urge you to what? Whatever decision you make to to Josh's point, I think you used a great analogy with Mom and grandma. You put us in a position then where we have to police, where we have to decide where we have to say you. Yes. You know,  and that creates friction, it creates discord, it creates argumentation, and it turns us into police.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And when it's one size fits all and we say, this is what we're asking of all of you during these times, because of this matrix, there aren't complaints, our

[R11862-246] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (Ronnie refers to 'the pooling that Heat | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. The other part was the,
TEXT> For me it was  to have strong masks, strongly recommended at moderate level with the students at home. Parents at home notified that it was strongly recommended.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: As opposed to required.

[R11862-304] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short fragments, seconds, recognitions and r | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That's when we use a discretion.
TEXT> No matter what. And honestly, if it was your child crying, I would be the one probably bringing the child to you or you know. So there is.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I didn't know the degree. Yeah, yeah.

[R11862-385] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; addressed as 'Frank' [584]; ca | 2021-09-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Covid related. And the overall on the over under, it's a it's a positive if some of these problems that aren't in there. So we've we've we've saved money with the new hires. You can just estimate that with the years of experience. Yeah. Yeah.
TEXT> So okay further discussion. Any one else have a question or comment? All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Okay. Yeah. No. Other business. Quick.  I was watching channel nine tonight, and,  there was a work blurb on there about the, Educational Freedom Act about years. And,  the state budgeted,  I think $62,000 for that this year because they thought that a few people would maybe take advantage of that. So it turned out that about 1500 have expressed an interest in that. And,  to the tune of about $7 million. So I'm curious and we won't know this until October 1st. So I'm getting it out there now. I'm curious,  if we have some kids that have opted out to do homeschool, maybe outside of, outside of v LAX and Covid precautions, if they've, they're taking advantage of the state money for this or  they're going they're leaving to go  to the Claremont Christian Academy or somewhere using that money to offset the tuition. So I'm just curious on that. And I'm not in a hurry. We won't even know really until October 1st. That's when our, It was,  Adam is  is finalized, but that's going to be something that's going to be interesting to see if if those are people who are just have been out of the public schools and are just taking advantage of the money, or we're actually losing some people that are,  accessing that and going out to different schools.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So be I don't know if we can communicate with guidance when the guidance secretaries, when they get requests for records, if they could sort of get a sense of,

[R11862-485] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - high school enrollment and | 2021-09-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: 30 credits.
TEXT> Or 134 credits were recovered. Some were multiple credits with eight students. That's 134 classes that students now don't have to take because they recovered that in some schools. I just want to give you that a.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Appreciate that. Please.

[R11886-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: way, shape and form for uniformity across the state. And right now Sullivan County has spiked. It's it's it's going to go up and down like as it has last year. But and I can talk about that, but it is up to the day.
TEXT> It's usually about a day behind. They just put in the stuff right than our before I got here and I didn't have time to put it the new stuff. It'll be in there tomorrow in real time.  What is different this year. And I'll talk about this and we'll get into a little bit more detail with other slides  across the state in everywhere we were used to last year, folks at home and remember this all of last year was predicated upon  looking at the matrix, and it was a decision making matrix to switch between models. All right. There there is not any I don't want to say any because there could be some that I don't know about, but there are not many. If there are any  districts in New Hampshire where there is a remote and a live version, they're not even talking about that.  So there is as a charter school for an option for folks. But but other than that, everything is live in person  and it is going on and we think  positively as it as it should be. So when we put out our letters, as we have today,  we had three more students at Stevens  High School. We talk about them in the aggregate,  we've had calls in and people are saying, are they associated with this activity, this sport and things like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We try to give as much information as possible and we send we alert the public about those through letters. There is not there simply isn't a degree of contact

[R11886-52] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we put out our letters, as we have today, we had three more students at Stevens High School. We talk about them in the aggregate, we've had calls in and people are saying, are they associated with this activity, this sport and things like that.
TEXT> We try to give as much information as possible  and we send we alert the public about those  through letters. There is not there simply isn't a degree of contact tracing. The governor was talking about this today and there as well as were his  top cabinet officials. It's not the same as last year. It's going to take a little bit of time,  for, for all of, for us to, to to get used to that, I guess I don't, I don't have a better, more articulate way to say it,  but so when people are out, they are out,  as needed as, as as sick. Don't don't send your children,  you know, if they are sick. I'll get to the next slide, please. I'll show that first. I'll walk through this. This shows the next slide, shows the exact cases  to the day. All right. So you can see  if you look in our code we have had one,  one  positive  in the student is since removed as a pro for the appropriate days. They have to be  following  the Covid tracking toolkit in the algorithm that I have a slide coming up. We'll go to that. All of those links were in the letters that have gone out there on our web page. You can access that information and we'll be following up with it again.  We have had in at different times,  eight students at Stevens High School, okay.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Through he had three on the 13th. We had three today. What is interesting and people might be talking about this at home or on social media or things like

[R11886-53] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that. All of those links were in the letters that have gone out there on our web page. You can access that information and we'll be following up with it again. We have had in at different times, eight students at Stevens High School, okay.
TEXT> Through he had  three on the 13th. We had three today. What is interesting and people might be talking about this at home or on social media or things like that. Sometimes we send students out, but we don't. It's only when they are positively confirmed through the nurses. And then sometimes we have to report that as well  to the state  that it is official. So sometimes there's a lapse in the in the amount of time that it takes and things like that. But all of it is vetted through  through  Ronnie, our  lead nurse who's presented today. We kind of gave her the night off. So I hope I'm doing her justice today about all the medical. Please help me if I'm if I'm not there. But we also have had one case in the district office as well. Again, isolated and out. But  but that's where we are right now.  The next slide is the exact  adopted and  edited and back and forth document created and accepted by the board to use as the  guideline. And you can see this all in real time.  The next slide that I have is the one from a previous.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this literally is the decision making process and tree that we follow. Every nurse follows. Again, under Ronnie's leadership in communication with the principals as well. Those at home

[R11886-54] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: next slide is the exact adopted and edited and back and forth document created and accepted by the board to use as the guideline. And you can see this all in real time. The next slide that I have is the one from a previous.
TEXT> And this literally is the decision making process and tree that we follow. Every nurse follows. Again, under Ronnie's leadership  in communication with the principals as well. Those at home who got the  letter from Principal Barry or for Principal Romeo today it was drafted in concert with the everyone, with the trainers, with Ronnie, with everyone involved, all the nurses. Ruth at the high school today has been amazing on the phone and communication and the team effort. It's just been great. But that that is how it will go out  so that everyone is in the loop,  as as needed.  The next, next slide that I have getting away from that is an update for the increases in the overall enrollment. I said I would say this, we had some really positive news,  but there's been a steady decline over the past 6 or 7 years at Stevens High School.  And you can see the right column. You can see  they have 571 students. Okay.  30 they're up 35. Every school is up students this year, which is great. And I got to be honest, we're trying to sift through that to find out why.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Because we're we're you know, we're excited about it, but we haven't we certainly have the capacity for it. But we know that it's been tough and there aren't a

[R11886-60] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of this, we have a lot of the literature that that tells you that as well, that you can review, unique programing and experiential curriculum opportunities for an entire grade. So the whole second grade can go out and do things at a certain place.
TEXT> The whole,  also the reduction of conflicts when you have a less of an age gap between students and also a reallocation of of teachers for their specialties. Right. So,  then when we talked about this and when we're excited about it in our early planning, we knew that there are some teachers are,  you know, early literacy, some are  for higher grades, for science or math or more content and things like that. And there would be an opportunity to kind of have a an all star team as more great of the talent that we have, which is tremendous within the district. So that was another reason we were looking at it. Some of the concerns, though, okay, that still have to be vetted and we're going to be working on this and we're going to try to have some numbers for some of these in anticipation from the survey and also things that we've been planning in that we have to do. Is it feasible? Okay. Transportation, parents with multiple school drop offs. Do we have enough busses? These are the actual questions that came up previously. And some of them were echoed even in the first round over the summer.  What about too many transitions? Okay, now we have a five total and not as three before where they're going between.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And what we're talking about is each student going to each school for a grade. The advantage of the advantage for us is that you build a cohort so the

[R11886-62] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: obviously with the bargaining unit agreements and things like that. How will toes be structured these these came up. They came up right away. What will the how will the funds gained in one school for that neighborhood school. How will they be used reallocated?
TEXT> Again, the loss of the neighborhood school  and the just the concern that it is a budget related and it's not. It never was, but we just feel like it's a more advantageous way to use resources. All right. Next slide. You're going to see all of the scholarship I particularly the Annie Casey Foundation all of that and  addresses,  you know, poverty impacts what it's like to, not learn to read but but read to learn  by the third and fourth grades, the most critical junctions, a lot of  classic studies on that. And basically just having reading rich environments throughout in more sustained so that that was the goal, that was the impetus the first time. It's the same as now, but we still have a lot of work to do,  and we  implore the community to come out Monday.  Participate in the surveys and please help us  along this path  with your with your students. All right.  Next slide is is exactly where we left off. In some of the  ways in which we looked at, we could configure in the first round. Most of these numbers hold exactly true as well.  For those at home looking at this, I won't bore you with all this, but when we looked at this, we looked at the K-5 configuration.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: When you see from the first column bluff, we had 15 rooms and 12 teachers. How might we configure configure the district for the greatest advantages. And this was the

[R11886-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: posted eighth grade schedules. The last slide there, what we were looking at and kind of where we left off. And it's not any it's not rocket sciences. The middle school has a sixth grade schedule now with 55 minute classes or about an hour.
TEXT> That's similar to the contract language.  You have to have prep times. You have to meet the spirit of the collective bargaining agreement and all these other things. But basically I use this as an example. There's also an hour comparison down the bottom if you see that. And basically if we modify schedules and look at other types of things, there is the potential that we could add, an incredible increase of time with year long courses in the core academics. Almost 40%, 40 to 50% more time, a month more of instruction all the way through the general.  And I was a high school person  for way too long, 20/20 years, and did a lot of schedules and helped with a lot of schedules and other places to. And the idea of it is and it's very simple, you don't have to complicated it is. There's a relationship building and growth that happens with a student's development over the course of a year that can be more sustained and more beneficial for them, obviously, in addition to more hours. But it's also the connections with the teacher. It's the growth that you see in the sustained elementary. Teachers know this. It's part and parcel  middle school environments as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It gets tougher putting as many things as we have amazing opportunities that we have at Stevens in in the tech Center and with our partners in the community. It's

[R11886-70] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you. So I consider your opening of schools as well.
TEXT> Well, yeah. Opening a school opening. Yeah. Opening of schools went well.  We,  we get out there as much as we could, but we still need to get out there a little bit more.  We have  we have kindergarten, open houses coming up, other types of things happening at the elementary we have had. It has been amazing, particularly with the we had two  new principals at the elementary,  at Maple,  Nicole Bailey Nikki and Christine Baker at Bluff. They've they've had outstanding starts  from from what we've heard,  it was great to have the busses back for the high school students to start resuming things and clubs and activities. Obviously the setbacks with, with the the Covid types of things. But  and ironing out the bugs with,  with staffing and things like that  in a few places, we still assured a few teachers at the middle school as well, but we're working with creative solutions for that. We are close to where we we actually have more powers now to start than we had at the end of last year, so we're excited about that. But we still have a few more hires and where those are in process, we don't have any new  appointments to to share with you, but we we expect to have those in the October meeting as well by then in process.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But it's been a it's been a very positive opening. You know people a lot of energy. It's great to see kids back. It's great to it's a lot of

[R11886-80] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (attending remotely) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right go ahead Frank okay.
TEXT> No I actually got the mute and everything. So Mike, I heard you say that,  that, reading and such.  Best if it takes place before grades 3 or 4, and I know that to be true.  And I don't think anybody in the world would, argue with the fact that the sooner that we can start having contact with kids,  the better. So I'm going to put my frugal Yankee hat on and,  just throw an idea out there. And of course, I'm going to offend all kinds of when I say this. But,  if I were running things and I was talking about pre-K, knowing that there's only so much money and I interventions are best when they take place at a very, very early age, I would be looking at capping, special ed at age 18 or 19. And currently it's through age 21, I believe. So I just think I wonder about the,  just the continued,  spending of money when we know that we're much, much better off spending our money when kids are young and the outcomes come much slower,  much more effort, if at all, when kids are older. So I'm just wanting to say that  I'm probably not going to be popular with a lot of people for saying it, but there is only so much money. And I think that,  certainly to think about,  and I know there are federal regulations and such, but I just wanted to get that out there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[R11886-82] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. Duly noted. So and we and I think Ben. Ben will chime in that to the the earlier we intervened with special ed the better the results as well and all that. There's absolutely every bit of scholarship and  in studies to back that up. So  we do think but  again the we want that to be for everyone. So and also  parents  in homes and students where there may not be a lot of early literacy things. We're looking as we always have to infuse that  in, build that up as well. So I could not agree more with you. Right. And you sound great in the studio to on that Bose speaker Sony system over there as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Well I can actually still look up some stuff going on in my throat, but it's not as bad as it was.

[R11886-87] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: So.
TEXT> I, I do know advisory flex. Those are staples in  those concepts. There are a little bit different in the middle school but the same type of thing. The wind block saw block, all those  types of blocks.  What. So we haven't done the deep dive all the way through that.  We we do know that there's models and approaches where you can rotate those differently. And those are the things we're going to explore. I think the focus in general on the time and the core classes. It sounds old school and I guess, you know, the older you get, the more you sound like your parents type of thing. But, but, but that core academics, we know that in the core time all the way through with the same teacher  is the focus. We also know and again, just like with the it's not an easy lift to dig into that and see what what we have for courses, look at historical enrollments. And it's all the same pie that as a  as Frank said from that that  old Yankee frugal. We just want to make sure that we're we don't want a slight students on everything, but we want to take a hard look at what we're offering, how we're offering it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And there's a lot of courses and subjects, and I won't belabor it, but where we're already intervening and we have for years, and from my perspective, it's because the,

[R11886-88] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: pie that as a as Frank said from that that old Yankee frugal. We just want to make sure that we're we don't want a slight students on everything, but we want to take a hard look at what we're offering, how we're offering it.
TEXT> And there's a lot of courses and subjects, and I won't belabor it, but where we're already intervening and we have for years, and from my perspective, it's because the, the, the missing, the, the, you know, a year, year and a half between mass, all the, all the building block things where there's gaps. But that's it's a we'll have a larger conversation. We'll also hear from students, we'll hear from staff.  One of the things that  and I know from reading about the Supreme Court case and stuff like that in the history of this, there, there were how this one or how the schedule was investigated, I believe it was 7 or 8 years ago.  It was contentious. We're not looking to do that. We're just looking to to max out  what we can do for students. And I just I want to say that so and if it's timely and we can do it as soon as possible, we would. If it takes a little bit more time, we'll take a little bit more time.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Two questions, one kind of off the schedule. When is there? And I forget the Newport, the agreement with Newport for the tech center. When is that? Yeah, we need

[R11886-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [59-124]) | 2021-09-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Two questions, one kind of off the schedule. When is there? And I forget the Newport, the agreement with Newport for the tech center. When is that? Yeah, we need to that at some point for which.
TEXT> We do. It's up soon. It's up to ten years. Is up soon to to see what we're going to do there. We had a meeting today  online meeting with,  with region ten and talking about building and expanding and what's involved with that. Newport's going through that. We've been  talking about that as well of what we would put in. And,  you know,  Doctor Herzog has some some good ideas. He's he's been looking at a  one that you saw on the program of studies. If you look at that of a teacher prep program, we're looking also and the intricacies of it. It was great to be on that call today and, and kind of,  what the state focus is on as well too, and what they support. And  there can be some tough talk about which careers are  ultimately  the goal of it is to have kids getting jobs, having very, you know, rich and fulfilling lives and things like that, and doing what they want to do, but being successful with that. But there's a lot in picking those courses of study and also competition for different zones and things like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But it has been said, we've talked about it in Budget Committee, and obviously Alex has presented it and talked about it as well. Where are we getting our bang

[R11886-99] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: instructed to use Fish Tank as a guide for what to teach during science and social studies, and to expand topics from fish tank units to do hands on activities during social studies. Blocks and a link to the fish tank units was directly provided.
TEXT> On July 24th 21st, the board had a presentation regarded the implementation of the Fish Tank curriculum. The presentation was initiated because of concerns related to content, and because it had not been presented to the board unsolicited, which had been the  past best practice. During this presentation, the board was told that the Fish tank program was the reading program. The entire presentation was focused on reading achievement. One of the arguments for the Fish Tank program was that it was a knowledge base program, and such programs are linked to improved reading achievements. Miss Lockwood, one of the presenters,  explained that with the Fish Tank program, kids would not only be meeting Common Core standards but be gaining building block knowledge with science and social studies content, and that's why it was important that it had the social studies content. After the presentation was completed,  board members voiced concerns that there appeared to be significant and conspicuous content deficits in the social studies units. Some voiced the concerns that there were political bias. Evidence of political bias. There was concerns related to age, appropriateness of the contents and themes, and that the themes and topics of the unit seem beyond what would be normally considered a culturally relevant education program.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Lockwood, one of the presenters, countered that the highlighted books that were provided with this program were clearly children's books, and that the unit's contents were not equally, all

[R11886-100] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: voiced the concerns that there were political bias. Evidence of political bias. There was concerns related to age, appropriateness of the contents and themes, and that the themes and topics of the unit seem beyond what would be normally considered a culturally relevant education program.
TEXT> Miss Lockwood, one of the presenters, countered that the highlighted books that were provided with this program were clearly children's books, and that the unit's contents were not equally, all the unit's content was not equally intense. She also cited that Fish Tank had a robust guidance, had robust guidance on how to help teachers talk through controversial topics that may be generated by the content of the units. Miss Fontaine, another presenter, emphatically stated this is not underlying the social studies program. It is the L, a program that uses social studies and science as it's based. Teachers are still expected to teach social studies and science in the social studies block. Well, it didn't seem that we were told is that there actually is no social formalists, that no formal social studies program in place to meet the next generation standards. Curriculum standards which are in place, how those standards are met  will be left up to the individual teachers. So in reality, the only consistent content being taught in the social studies units across the whole district is what is in the fish tank districts. Also, we were given a number of informational packets at that presentation. One contain  edited review of value of both fish tank and reading wonders. The program that Fish Tank would be replacing the Ed report reviews highlighted that Reading Wonders was only partially only partially met. Gateway one alignment expectations that contain crucial building knowledge component. Which fish tank met?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Neither. And they gave us copies of all the Ed reports, which was really helpful. Neither of these programs, met the utilization component or the number three gateway. The the

[R11886-103] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: tried to figure out what it was about the program that made it feel like it was much more than culturally responsive teaching tool, which is what I thought it was initially. It just really never fit the elements that I found in my research.
TEXT> And and Mike can attest to this. When we initially met about this, I spent so much time trying to really understand, you know, culturally  relevant pedagogy and, and all the little elements of it and how to develop curriculums that  met the needs of underserved students. And there were components of it in this in the fish tank program. But it really didn't it just didn't match up. It also didn't seem like the program was simply trying to  fill gaps that ignored history of marginalized groups, or  to bring in the forefront things that had been ignored in the past. So I tried to employ some inductive reasoning here, and I looked really closely at what the chosen topics and texts were, and to kind of instruct me exactly what the designers of the curriculum were trying to achieve, and what paid a particular  attention to were the units and the professional development links that were directly linked to this page. What were in the teacher's notes? What were provided as  guidance for teachers to implement the program? What was in the lessons planned? What was the,  the guidance that was provided for teachers that were dealing with difficult topics? I looked I literally went to the point where I would look at the article that they were using as a reference.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I would look at the author, and then I would go find other articles and references that that author had participated in. I looked really closely at what was being

[R11886-105] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: justice. And you have to just it's a free program. You can just put your name in and sign up and take a look at it. And some people would say, well, just don't use the standards to evaluate the students, but the, the kids.
TEXT> But then we'd really be missing the real point here. And the point here is that the program is designed for students to internalize these standards. You just you just can't pull them out. You just can't. It's baked in. And so I, I kind of just one even further. And I wanted to understand what these social justice standards were. And so I started looking up social justice education and how to build a curriculum. And I found what seems to be a foundational article, one that gets cross cited and came up really quickly on Google Scholar. And,  the title of this for anybody who wants to check it out is the six Elements of Social Justice Curriculum Design for the Elementary Classroom. And it's out of the International Journal of Multicultural Education. And it tells us how to integrate  a standard curriculum into  integrate the the values and the goals of a social justice curriculum into a standard curriculum. And it's it's essentially a cookbook. And,  when I compared the elements that were in this article, which tended to be which seemed to be a benchmark article and other articles that had similar, similar elements, you could literally draw a line for line in the content and fish tank from the elements that were presented in this, in this and other articles.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And the thing that I found most unnerving, actually, is that in one of the paragraphs related to integrating the elements of standards testing and mandated curriculum, after they kind

[R11886-106] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: tended to be which seemed to be a benchmark article and other articles that had similar, similar elements, you could literally draw a line for line in the content and fish tank from the elements that were presented in this, in this and other articles.
TEXT> And the thing that  I found most unnerving, actually, is that in one of the paragraphs related to integrating the elements of standards testing and mandated curriculum, after they kind of discuss how to capitalize on the reality that kids only have concrete or operational thinking in this, these young ages, was how to how to immerse the  curriculum, the social studies mission with an academic mission. And so the author of this actually said, one of the most straightforward ways that teachers can achieve this is through the the strategy called camouflaging. Through this strategy, teachers can integrate the elements into mandated curriculum or substitute alternative materials while teaching. While teaching required skills. This may also allow them to teach social justice education without raising the attention of administrators, who may not be supportive of such aims. And then it went on to kind of show, examples of how  this camouflaging had been used in the past. And that alone was extraordinarily to me.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So, what what became really apparent to me is that we have in Fish Tank, a program or curriculum that actually has a dual mission. It just doesn't have an

[R11886-121] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Mike.' [312] and 'Mike' [37 | 2021-09-15
PREV> Unidentified: I don't.
TEXT> I don't think I need to beat a dead horse. But,  as it's been said, I asked a specific question about fish tank being used as a social studies curriculum right now under social studies. It's the only thing listed. There is no alternative listed.  The social studies curriculum should be, I think, listed here instead of fish tank. And fish tank could be a a tool to use if it's a tool that should be listed. As you know you could also use fish tank.  We were told that it was going to be used for reading because the books, the books were wonderful. They engaged as kids and that's what we were told that the they're going to be used for. When I when I saw this, I was really disappointed. I tend to put trust in people and trust, you know, and what we were told that night was, is not even close to what we find here.  I find it to be unacceptable.  Whether it's a, I don't know, I, I, I, I would hope it's an error, but it doesn't appear to be an error. I'm not sure it's really on anybody in this room, but this does this is unacceptable. As far as what we were told it was going to be and what it is. So not okay, Josh.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: So, Steve, you said you received this on the first of the month.

[R11886-165] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member, presiding (runs the meeting while Chair | 2021-09-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: for boards such as ourselves. And so there are protections, protections by law that, compel schools to actually present to their students things that members of the community might not be comfortable with, but it demonstrates that it's for the public, for the public good.
TEXT> So this isn't  on my part. It's and I don't think anybody's part it's not  an intent to,  suppress that. But way back when I sent out a link before the meeting in July 2021, pretty much, and I all but said, go look at the personal development, the professional development section, go look at the links that are attached, look at the links that you're being asked to connect to the social. I have never seen Social Justice Standards Incorporated. I have never seen action standards, political action standards actually enmeshed in an elementary school kids program. That's a shift. It's just something that hasn't existed before.  And, the reason I haven't read out loud what's in the professional development section  is because it's pretty inflammatory. And, I wasn't trying.  And if anything, I was trying to tamp the energy down and to keep a focus on the fact that it is a political curriculum that most likely is sub substandard  in relation to its academics goals as well. So I just don't want there to be this miscommunication. And I can feel you being anxious and I don't I don't blame you. But,  that's not that's not my intent and that's not that's not the intent of the the motion. Mike.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I think, you know, going back to what, like Frank stated, I think we need, some of these topics in our school systems, and, you know, we need to go

[R11886-194] Mary Ellen Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6, six weeks in the district (first name | 2021-09-15
PREV> Mary Ellen Janeiro: away? What are those skills that we're harnessing as foundational pieces that are taught within the curriculum at specific grade levels? So the scope and sequence units should be built in somewhat in the same way that the maps are in that you're starting with.
TEXT> What are the essential questions that we want students to be able to know and do within each of those units? The scope and sequence helps to provide a guide, if you will, for our teachers. And I think you know, Michael, to to your point of the social studies, what is there? I think you're absolutely correct, from what I can tell in my short time here in SA six that we don't have at the elementary levels, some of those solid social studies and science approaches which I you're all shaking your head. I'm not telling you anything that you don't know.  And those are things that we need to to get in place. Integration is key at the elementary level. And I hope that that that is understood because so much of our time at an elementary level is with early literacy and with math. And so the portion of a day for an elementary teacher is often spent predominantly in teaching the reading skills, the writing skills and math skills.
NEXT> Mary Ellen Janeiro: So integration of, okay, how can we figure out how can we get some current events into the curriculum? How can we talk about a historical event can also be

[R11933-2] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the shutdown for for Covid in March of 20. And then we revisit now we started over the summer and we just tried to get the word out and get some presentations out and get some proposals out and also get feedback for Serum Committee.
TEXT> And I'll talk about the upcoming slide. But next slide please. Mr.. Just use oh, that's why he gave it to me. Thank you sir. All right. So the  and that is perfect for my eyes. All right.  So the WS in the nature of the restructuring. So why are we doing it. And that's to promote greater student academic achievement focusing on early literacy numeracy, socialization  in interventions that are needed. Where it's going to be throughout the Claremont Public Schools affecting the consolidation of our early childhood center, Maple Avenue Elementary, Discard Elementary and Bluff Elementary. So when is possibly next year, depending on what proposal, the feedback, the feasibility  from all of the stakeholders we plan on in the presentation that goes to the school board.  So we have a lot of work to do. We have a lot of questions that will go right through where we left off last time and where we are now. We have a lot of that work already underway, but we're going to need a lot more input from the community. We have CCTV televising this as well. We wanted to offer a remote, you know, access as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's what we're doing. So what? We're investigating the consolidation and restructuring of the elementary schools to the. All students attend each elementary school, and doing so will be

[R11933-3] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: time and where we are now. We have a lot of that work already underway, but we're going to need a lot more input from the community. We have CCTV televising this as well. We wanted to offer a remote, you know, access as well.
TEXT> So that's what we're doing. So what? We're investigating the consolidation and restructuring of the elementary schools to the. All students attend each elementary school, and doing so will be able to add free create school opportunities,  pre-K opportunities for all Claremont students.  We will be creating a steering committee provides teachers, parents, administrative, school board members and council members so that that's, you know, that's that's how we're going to do it. We have a lot of work to do over the upcoming weeks and months. We're looking at minimally of a 2 or 3 month process to do that, but we get the information to the board, and that's why we're investing in the public  to help us out. So we did send out a few slides and kind of get information on where people  felt that we'd be at about 75 or 8 or 80 respondents. When I pulled these slides an hour or so ago.  Basically, one of the reasons we're looking at it, you can see from left to right, extremely important to not important from the  blue or all the way to the right,  which is three. So most of these  were answered in the extremely important and important range.  So for smaller class sizes, improving literacy and numeracy for the grade levels, as well as having more interventions and strategies.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The next was another reason for restructuring is for free universal pre-K. This means that additional year of learning for all students in a play based setting. And that was

[R11933-7] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: just for the budgeting season to get that and some, the areas for the strategic plan. There are six major areas. The first three, we thought that the most critical learning and teaching at age six improve student achievement, increasing the student time on learning.
TEXT> Recruiting and retaining the best staff and  and brightest that possible. Expanding school safety efforts.  Working with our district special ed programing  and also  looking at the governance structure. That's the framework of those. So when we talk all the time on learning, and I put this in this presentation so that we would go over that as well as the two major drivers that we had the summer forms for, one, for the elementary restructuring, the other one for  the middle school, high school and tech center schedules. So,  building the capacity and the schedule, that was one  online real time class formats.  Investigating the restructuring of the elementary  schools to net the universal pre-K that we talked about the enrichment, control over class size, ability to have more interventions. And again, all of these were presented in that shut down spring, as it were. School based  that special programing. Student in building the autism programs and behavioral programs.  Benefits of the elementary school restructuring. We bulletin fees and we we had some kind of true  talk in the in the summer forum. And we want to continue these conversations with the board and with community members, particularly with the committee. But our intent was  in our focus is on early, early literacy and numeracy gains.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Stability and control of class size and staffing. Complete equity for all students. All students go to each school. Stronger. Consistent targeting curriculum assessment interventions at each grade level. Universal

[R11933-10] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the three three transitions in the eight year span? Five total, not the three as before. Not time for leadership roles for the upperclassmen. The real littles in the early grades. The three days in the case. In the month sacri assignments, process and procedures.
TEXT> How exactly would that go down? What's the process?  How will be structured? What are the funds that they are raised? The whole idea of the loss of the neighborhood school, generations of neighbors and community impact where everyone went to that, to that one school. The last one that I highlighted that we talked about this as well. This is also a driver for the community,  and it's a driver for any community. But it's important to know that it has this is it's highlighted because and the this must be budget related. Does this lower my taxes? These were questions we heard before. And and  what we want to say  is that it's not budget related and that we have to do it to save money and that that's the driving force. It's budget related, and that we think that we can allocate our resources differently and more effectively and more judiciously for academic gains for students. That's our premise, and that's the argument that we will be presented to the board and defend again all the way through when we get all of these processes. So that's that's where we started with in the spring of 20. And that's what we're picking up right now. Earnestly. And we still have a lot of work to do.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we do for folks in the community, those online to, to to join us again. I saw something million names on the, on the sheet before who who were

[R11933-11] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and defend again all the way through when we get all of these processes. So that's that's where we started with in the spring of 20. And that's what we're picking up right now. Earnestly. And we still have a lot of work to do.
TEXT> And we do for  folks in the community, those online to, to to join us again. I saw something million names on the, on the sheet before  who who were around for the first round. And I would hope that they would  be gauge as well and take it on to do that, because we had some great early debates and then having concerns and, and  problem solving, and then we obviously went away for a while. Other things will present, but it is great to have that feedback again. So these are some of the sites there's all kinds of scholarship on.  There's been some classic studies,  the most  seminal one being the  Andy Casey original,  study on the impact for literacy in terms of achievement rates and perseverance rates. Students get to high school. Very well  documented case. But also you can look at that. Their links are very good anyway.  And there's also substantial data on there about the recent, drive and, and how standing in Hampshire public schools are in, in terms of our resource allocation and a life  so that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This will be online that may already be online, but it will be online tomorrow. So we're going to check out those back. This is where we started originally. And

[R11933-12] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But also you can look at that. Their links are very good anyway. And there's also substantial data on there about the recent, drive and, and how standing in Hampshire public schools are in, in terms of our resource allocation and a life so that.
TEXT> This will be online that may already be online, but it will be online tomorrow. So we're going to check out those back. This is where we started originally. And I  after this I have another slide that we can talk about that we have to vet as well. But this is this is what our general rationale was,  the first round where we had, if you look at this and the, the class size of figuration, that was the action rules  that we had. There are a few typos in there and some some of the  didn't translate. But you see in the first column where you have  k one, two, three, four, five and 15, that's 15 classrooms and 12 teachers. That's what we had. That's the distribution of the numbers of kids in that column.  212731 down. So the class sizes, you see the right ten and 11 for the 21, then you carry that across with 18 rooms and 17 teachers at this time, okay. In 22 rooms at Maple and 17 teachers. And you can see the class size variation, see, the class sizes overall  are pretty low everywhere. But we do see in that fourth grade in Maple, two at 23 we didn't have enough staff. And what we're trying to get at was the the how tough it is to cut some of those sections.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So I think a good one in some principles and principals here now. But when they have two 20s, particularly if you see the K in Maple and I'll just

[R11933-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: things that we have to vet through. And and we'll talk about this, but this was from our original go round. But it is a similar what we did today is it kind of put some numbers together to show where we would be today.
TEXT> Or and I tried to color coded to make it a little bit easier to follow. But we still are. And I stress that it is just a first pass in the draft. But it is also  a place to start. And  there's there's a in the numbers are similar. The concept is similar. But  you're going to see what we have to those. And this is the next slide. All right. So I try to color coded. So it would be easier. And I stretched it. So I along with the numbers. So they're a little bit harder to to sit. And I apologize for that. All right. But this is what we're looking at. All right.  So I use the exact enrollment for for yesterday or for Friday. Okay. So, it changes variable. People come and go. All that other stuff. But if you look at the preschool and you see the, the student minus one, that's three K minus one, you see the K just to orientate yourself. And if you're looking at it or if people in the audience. And then when you look across at the preschool, you see the totals, you see Stevens and Claremont.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We haven't bothered with those, but that was the there as well. And you see Maple Lab okay. And this was is all the way across for 307 and Maple

[R11933-18] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that was the intent. So that if you, if you thought of it this way, that we will have three k, k and one, they might have 284 or more, we know that they can have more because they have 307 in there now okay.
TEXT> And we know that might that would fit in. It's more  there's more equity there at Bismarck. 232 they already have more than that. Now we know that could work at bluff with 241. We did look at the number of rooms. We think that would work. We still have to walk it. There's also things about the types of rooms that there are with different configurations that aren't lost on us, even that we have to look at. So all of those elementary schools have little bathrooms and toileting types of things with. And we have to look at what that would be to make sure that they make code. What we have a lot of work to do. Okay. So but that happens all the time. It is easier to put in, you know,  a total or two and then look at the access, look at the fire code for levels or escape for  students at each age if you have multiple evacuation rooms. We did look at this the first round. We felt pretty confident with it  in the configuration. We did have the fire chiefs go through and we talked about it. We also talked about it when we walked around with them  during Covid as well. You know, the same type of thing with a great relationship with them. But we have to partner again and we have a lot of work to do.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So. But that's that's the overall frame of it, of where we are. So our next step is, is to, you know, get our steering committee together, try to get

[R11933-19] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: about it. We also talked about it when we walked around with them during Covid as well. You know, the same type of thing with a great relationship with them. But we have to partner again and we have a lot of work to do.
TEXT> So. But that's that's the overall frame of it, of where we are. So our next step is, is to,  you know, get our steering committee together, try to get teachers at all grade levels and administrators, parents,  stakeholders, paraprofessionals,  specialists.  I would imagine you could probably get a team together. And  I think it might be best to and more conducive to go evening or something like that in remote kind of chime in and have a note taker. And to do all of that work, people with busy schedule lives. A lot of times people can't participate because they have to pick up their kids. After all those other types of things that  it might be better to do some of this work remotely that way. So but that's that's all I have for the initial kickoff. And I would love to hear from people in the audience, either remotely if you wanted to speak, or also folks that are hearing audience today. So I'm talking about that's kind of a weird thing. Yes.  Patrick Adrian has a question.  Yeah. So people, one of the one.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Question I had was and talked to him, Frank Sprague, I think when this was discussed at the it was 2019. During one of the budget meetings or like after

[R11933-23] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Patrick Adrian: reached that point. And so that would be something when they're actually pointing the decision on it. I know I can say that phrase spray did reiterate that that would be his intent. Yeah. I do know if the board has discussed this with, you.
TEXT> Know, so so all all we've already talked about, particularly in earnest.  Without all the momentum of a new board, new people coming on in the spring was they wanted to really get accurate and see what it would take to to vet that, almost to the point where they were ready to make a motion. And I was, you know, certainly not comfortable. We still reiterated with a lot of work to do. We want your stakeholders on board. There's there's a lot to this. There's a lot of impacts. And there's always whenever you have large sweeping changes like that, there's always unintentional things that you miss in that kind of bubble up.  For example, like some of the impacts that we had when we put in the summer program, we we know it was a great program. We know it benefited kids, but it also, you know, impacted other types of plans that folks have had the best intentions. And we hope to do, you know, similar programs in the future as well. But sometimes there's unintended things. So that's what we want to be wary of as well. Other folks. In the audience, anyone online. So I just figured, all right, Jessica, if you could just knots who you are, what you do in the district or a parent or anything and and,  sure. Go for it. Thanks.
NEXT> Jessica Christian: I'm Jessica Christian, and I am a parent of three students that are in the district. And my question is the survey that you sent out this week, and then

[R11933-24] Jessica Christian | Parent of three district students and educator (self-identified [74]:  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: be wary of as well. Other folks. In the audience, anyone online. So I just figured, all right, Jessica, if you could just knots who you are, what you do in the district or a parent or anything and and, sure. Go for it. Thanks.
TEXT> I'm Jessica Christian, and I am a parent of three students that are in the district.  And my question is the survey that you sent out this week,  and then shared that data on your slide show today. What is that information being used to drive? Is it just getting,  a pulse on how people are feeling about this and different aspects of it, or is it data that you plan to use elsewhere.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Know so that that data is incredibly incomplete and we know that. So what we wanted to do is get the word out. We had so much going on with,

[R11933-43] Gene Allen | Teacher and parent of a high school student (self-identified [103] as  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Nice.
TEXT> Hi. Thank you. This is Gene Allen, and I have a couple of questions. First. I'm a teacher,  and I also have a high school student. Is there a committee  forming to determine the pre-K curriculum? And sort of along with that, I'm wondering if the K curriculum would then be modified at all.  Or are we not looking to accelerate things, but rather sort of build that curriculum over a two, two year period? And maybe give them a little more downtime, relaxation play and  discovery time, maybe more outdoor time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I mean, I think it's a blank canvas right now for where that is. I like those. I particularly I'd always appreciate your perspective, Jean, anyway. But the, we do

[R11933-53] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Jessica Christian: child's education is not important. My bigger question, though, is how would this new arrangement help to meet those questions that the original survey had hit on? And will the follow up survey that you're sending help us to narrow down the how of it?
TEXT> Yes. So,  yeah. So the survey first of all, we need to ask identifying information that your you know, what group your  you  teach your parents stakeholder. You know who who are you. And how does it impact. We need to have open ended response bubbles for other things that we might not have missed, that people can contribute. We knew we had to get that out. We had you know, obviously we've had a lot going on with the like all schools in the region and stuff like that with, with, with and planning and just trying to get back to normal. So,  we need a lot of follow up things on that in terms of,  we can get into specificity of, and we've spoke about this, but we it wasn't in depth. We didn't we, we didn't want to scare people off from that and make it look like it was the be all and end all,  as kind of like your what you're suggesting. So we know that we need to have follow up information to gather from. How many students do you have at a certain grade levels just for transportation?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I can see 5 or 6 questions that we need. Just for curriculum needs for, you know, all of that. All of the more nuanced things, we have to put

[R11933-59] Jessica Christian | Parent of three district students and educator (self-identified [74]:  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. Right. Yeah. You can't differentiate between the two structures. I agree, it's also laird with things that need to be tease out. I the, the intervention of conditions and they need to be passed in isolated.
TEXT> Even the smaller sizes. Anyone will say that smaller sizes are  the way to go. That's would be amazingly important. But. And I see that in your numbers in the other slide that you provided, that is a possibility of getting the smaller class sizes, unless maybe you're a kiddo from bluff and then you could end up in bigger class size. Right. So  but I get how the maple kids and the kiddos could end up in a smaller class size. Maybe.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I'm sorry. Maybe an open ended question. What do you think is the ideal class size?

[R11933-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Jessica Christian: question makes good sense of how that ties to the restructuring of the school. But some of the other questions, like I said, I think I'm more curious about the how is that going to happen behind the question as opposed to the question itself.
TEXT> That's a great, great point. Thank you. Well, you got a timer. Might as well go to the lesson. The the enrichment and then the,  the flexible distribution of, of  basically more, more teachers per school because it's fewer grades. So  more diversity and alignment with teachers as well and specific needs of students.  With teachers, sometimes it's tougher when there's some. I think even this year there may be only one teacher for great, or two here or there. You know, in some school.
NEXT> Jessica Christian: I understand that being able to spread the kids out across more classrooms could be beneficial for a variety of reasons. I should tell you also, I'm an educator, so

[R11933-71] Gene Allen | Teacher and parent of a high school student (self-identified [103] as  | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So G first and then if we can organize the chats. Okay. Just one. Okay. All right.
TEXT> G yes. Thanks again. So as we're talking about the survey, a couple of things came to mind for me. And I didn't answer the survey.  Because my child is beyond the age group affected by this. So I didn't think it was appropriate for me to respond. And I don't know how other people who received the survey handled that,  quandary. And then I also had the opportunity to respond twice to that survey, because I got the same thing in my school email, and I don't know how maybe other people might have responded that to that either. So I'm wondering about the legitimacy sometimes of of some of the surveys that go out and how people handle that.  And then, I didn't know if perhaps the community would have a chance to respond, in which case then I would have, you know, some responses that I would feel comfortable with sharing. And my last  point was just about the language of the survey and making it as family friendly as possible, so that we are guaranteed a higher rate of participation in the survey.  Things like remediation might not be super, friendly to all of our parent readers.  And that population. And so I don't know if there's a way we can take a really close look at at that just so we can ensure great participation in the service.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. I, you know, we we couldn't agree more. We, we want to have kind of the spirit community right at the table of what did we miss and how

[R11933-77] Tyler | Former student, public commenter (recognized 'Yes. Tyler.' [176]; surn | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: asking those to make sure it's worth the allocation of taxpayer money, and also that there's a benefit for student achievement for the. Yeah, we we have a lot that we have to we have to recognize and we have to prove and quantify. So.
TEXT> You're on it. Yes. Tyler. Thank you. I feel like you would have had to wait until you have more than one, so. Oh.  So I went to school  edition, you know, and when I went to school the  size  of a pretty small. But that helped my education out really well. Being in C++ classrooms, especially having an IEP and going through the specialized system. But going into the middle school, you were in giant classes with 35 kids who are above five and a bunch of my classes. So why are we looking to restructure the current configurations within the schools when left currently has a very low amount of people, supervise, but you want to add about 70 more students to the case with the same  people.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Samantha, please seem to have a good class size. Yeah. So so we're we're not we're we're not saying that we're going to keep the same features in the same

[R11933-78] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Tyler: a bunch of my classes. So why are we looking to restructure the current configurations within the schools when left currently has a very low amount of people, supervise, but you want to add about 70 more students to the case with the same people.
TEXT> Samantha, please seem to have a good class size. Yeah. So so we're we're not we're we're not saying that we're going to keep the same features in the same school and the same number of teachers in the same school, but rather we're going to we're looking at everything that we can do to change the configuration of the schools so that we have more interventions just by nature and concentration of the interventions earlier and in the configuration that we're showing. I think that. Was. Was that in in Maple, for example,  we would have  a lot of, you know, that would be pre-K for one. We would have a larger concentration of interventions and things like that. Keep it around 300 as it is. But you could see where a block has 153 now, and if it has  240, almost  190, 90 more kids that but those are only fourth and fifth graders. So there'd be a focus on that. They have fewer classrooms. So the class sizes for the fourth and fifth graders were okay, with those being 18 and nine teams more traditional.  In that way, we could still preserve lower class sizes for the most at risk in that early literacy. We haven't mapped it all out. We have to get all of those hard numbers.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the preliminary run in sketch of it. If the numbers stayed the way they are, we have to make sure the transportation we have, we have to cross

[R11933-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presents the elementary restructuring slides an | 2021-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: were okay, with those being 18 and nine teams more traditional. In that way, we could still preserve lower class sizes for the most at risk in that early literacy. We haven't mapped it all out. We have to get all of those hard numbers.
TEXT> This is the preliminary run in sketch of it.  If the numbers stayed the way they are, we have to make sure the transportation we have, we have to cross all those other hurdles. But we did estimate where you see the, the at 106125. I did average those across to look at the numbers that you see down in those ratios at the 14 and 18, to make those that we would have a capacity of about 75 more kids minimally than the 757. So we were about 830 and we could still do 830, including early pre-K. All that. It can take fit logistically in the building, which we think it can. We also have the benefit of. We could also do half day k what we could afford in staggered schedules, all kinds of other schedule and logistic variability to get where we know our goal of having more kids in and having better literacy days, we can do that. We hope to have all they can. I choose the pre-K. Thank you, thank you, thank you. So so  we hope we hope to have all of that. But we still have to we have to see them. But that's that's the goal. So it's not this. There's nothing there's nothing wrong with it. It'd be great if we had those numbers all the way down at all schools, but we just don't think we can afford that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think that's what it is. Overall, the overall equity of it, you know, in balancing predictability of what we haven't seen in a while. It used to be the

[R11963-25] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mike patron seconded it. Further discussion. All those in favor? Aye, aye. Opposed? Okay, let's go to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Chair.  The the first slide I have  just, just on on the opening screen is you can see,  three, three scenes from around the district, the left hand side, they are doing distracted driver training at Stevens High School, which was  very successful and well attended. I was  passing through and observed that the students are very engaged in that. The middle  is a blow up of of the new  smart boards being used in the renovated,  steam.  Red River  project with the Bruins, you can see the Bruins colors  going lapping around, and I'll show some other pictures of that. It's an amazing space. The  all the  gadgets, 3D printers, presses and things like that. You really  if you're if you're down there,  it's really amazing to see all all of the other things. And then  the other one is from  Bluff Elementary, kind of a  mural. And other students represent representations of themselves around  things that are just going along, around the distance, around the district. I have the renovation of the,  of  the Dow building. We got in a lot of questions of that. I tried to put these in in a  before and after,  format where,  if you look at  the first one, you'll see  this is the back of the parking lot where the dumpster is pitched up, recreating  the fold of, of of the original windows in the Dow house.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It was a really elegant building in the day, one of written up in Architectural Digest and things. And as you recall from a few years ago, in the before

[R11963-53] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: the the what, what ifs. If it does get really bad, what is what does that look like? And I don't expect an answer to that, but I think that I think it's important to say that that that's out there, people are are concerned.
TEXT> Without a doubt. I mean, all your administrators are concerned, your nurses, we we're all concerned. And what's so different from this year? And I'll let the nurses articulated better because they, they, they lived through it  this year and, and last year as well. But it's just different this year. So there was more aggressive contact tracing. There were you know, it was more aggressive. There weren't vaccinations. There weren't other mitigations  in place last year. And  and everything has backed off and been relaxed. There's not a lot of,  outward guidance from the state, from the, you know,  N.H.  or even we're we're a lot more on our own. But I, I think it's a I can have the, the nurses come up and and talk about it and they, they presented some information as well  in the packets that we also can put on the web of the process of what they go through when they write the letters. And, and I can only, you know, I've taken a few parent calls and I speak with  them  nearly every day. We check in and and what's I guess there's a frustration. Sometimes people want to know more or they hear in dribs and drabs from their child, particularly elementary lower levels, that they they think there's a,  you know, an infection or things like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And then people also talk their neighbors and everything, you know, like, this is what we heard. This is and sometimes people are skeptical about if there's a cluster. And

[R11963-61] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Frank, I just had a quick comment in response to what you were, were mentioning. So I think that the matrix that we approved at the beginning of the year did have a formula by which we would determine whether or not the school was impacted enough to consider an alternate way of educating and  the primary  things that would push that or absenteeism of students and staff. And I think the low threshold is something like 15%. It's a it's a pretty substantial. Yeah, a number of people that would have to be out. And then,  secondly, to your point, I received a lot of those emails myself, and  my response was very similar to what you were saying. Why? Because the stuff that you see on the dashboard is not necessarily reflective. There's a there's a huge gap in time. So when you think you're, you know, it's not being documented at the state, it's actually being documented. They're doing contact tracing. They have to confirm that the tests are positive, etc.. So those gaps in information aren't deliberate.  They're just part of the process. And then another piece that I think is helpful for folks that are looking to, see how we're doing as a district as far as our protocols, you can go right on the  New Hampshire Division of Public Health Services.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And I sent this out to all the board members earlier, and they have actually a whole school and childcare toolkit, which is extremely comprehensive. And you can see why

[R11963-101] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: I'll bring that up.
TEXT> Ask you to leave nurse for six. And also the nurse at Maple Avenue. I'd like to also introduce my,  my wonderful colleagues, Tessa Akins. Tessa works at the middle school, and Vicki Johnson, who is the school nurse at Disney, so. Okay, so what I'd like to talk to you about first is,  the process we go through when a student comes in, if we have there are a couple of different ways that we're sending children home. One is  if a parent calls and said, I've just tested positive, my husband's just tested positive. We gather up the child, we have them take their things, and we escort them out with their parents immediately, you know, out of the building, and then they're out for for ten days. If a child comes in and is sick, has any of the things on the list which would include, unfortunately, allergy symptoms like runny noses, coughs, help me out, guys. Or throats. Yeah. We're pretty we're we're pretty liberals. Fevers. You know, anything greater than 100.4?  We is considered a fever. So at that point,  we we do a lot of collaboration with the teachers.
NEXT> Ronnie: You know, we're not just sending them out immediately. We're really, you know, being thoughtful about it and looking at the child and saying, you know, you can tell with

[R11963-103] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: have a conversation with the parents, and we let them know on the phone when we talk to them. We need your child to be tested or out for ten days. So we make it very clear, you know, as clear as we can upfront.
TEXT> That's actually where my my question was going to be. Perfect. Perfect point. Thank you. How many children have been sent home but did not test positive?
NEXT> Ronnie: I'll tell you. It's in it's in my slides okay. So this form right here is the form that I fill out. So when we do get a positive test.

[R11963-104] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Steven Horsky: That's actually where my my question was going to be. Perfect. Perfect point. Thank you. How many children have been sent home but did not test positive?
TEXT> I'll tell you. It's in it's in my slides okay. So this form right here  is the form that I fill out. So when we do get a positive test. So let me go to the tracking that the nurses are doing right now. We're keeping  we have a a  Google spreadsheet a document for each school. It includes the child's name their  their grade, whether or not they've been vaccinated, whether or not they ride the bus, whether or not they play sports. For our littles. We have just recently added whether or not they attend Nima or they're going to attend rec league sports so that we can see if we're tracking any clusters that could potentially come from those areas we track,  the date they were tested, whether or not they were positive or negative, whether or not they've been exposed, their signs and symptoms. Then we go on to say the last day they were in school, then the date,  and then the date that they can,  the date they got sick, the date they can return to school. So it's we're really tracking a lot of information in each month. We keep adding a little bit a little bit more to it at the end of the day.
NEXT> Ronnie: I go through this actually, all day long. I think I'm torturing the nurses. I go through the spreadsheets all day long, and as we get a positive, I fill

[R11963-105] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: that they can, the date they got sick, the date they can return to school. So it's we're really tracking a lot of information in each month. We keep adding a little bit a little bit more to it at the end of the day.
TEXT> I go through this actually, all day long. I think I'm torturing the nurses. I go through the spreadsheets all day long, and as  we get a positive, I fill this out and then I fax it over to the,  I fax it over to the state. The reason I'm faxing is it's a little these are a little bit more comprehensive. And when I'm on the phone with them, they don't ask as many detailed questions as are on this form. And the one thing Miss Whitney to to to talk to you,  when it comes to  when you were saying about people and the spreadsheet and real time. So we're working in real time. The state is not working in real time. And and it does take some time for them to, to catch up with us. So what I. How do I. Is there a way for me to get it in the middle. Sorry. So what I did was and it's kind of small and I, I apologize it didn't move over well enough.  And I emailed this all to everybody tonight was so I broke down based upon September and October to date numbers. So in September for Stevens High School, there were 79 students that we put on protocol, 19 were students were on protocol due to household contact.
NEXT> Ronnie: So that means we were told that somebody in the family had tested positive and they needed to go home at of nine out of nine of those students then

[R11963-111] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: Where is the vaccination status coming from? Where is that low? Where's the information coming from?
TEXT> It's coming from the we're asking  the students and the students parents whether or not they're vaccinated.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[R11963-121] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> Does on protocol means that student that should show symptoms at home, at school and had to be sent home? Is that  is that considered on protocol.
NEXT> Ronnie: That as well as students who we any student we send home that needs to be sent home for the period of time that they need to, quarantine. So that

[R11963-122] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: Does on protocol means that student that should show symptoms at home, at school and had to be sent home? Is that is that considered on protocol.
TEXT> That as well as students who we any student we send home that needs to be sent home for the period of time that they need to,  quarantine.  So that would be ten.
NEXT> Unidentified: Days.

[R11963-130] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: And we can talk about it after.
TEXT> We have a fully vaccinated student that was on protocol. So.
NEXT> Ronnie: Okay. Was that in September or October?

[R11963-150] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Nicholas Stone: Slip into.
TEXT> So if a child tells me yes, you know, one of the things that we can we should do and we will start doing is following up with the parents, because  then we can actually find out what we're not doing at this point, which we need to do is to find out what vaccine they got when they got it and their their numbers on their cards, you know, as you speak to it. But as you know, with mass vaccines are a little contentious. So we're trying not to push our luck as well.  So CMS  seems in September at 65 students on protocol, they had one student vaccinated, 13 students were home for household contacts, eight students chose not to test. 18 students tested positive. There was one cluster,  It was an eighth grade cluster consisting of 15 eighth graders,  five, but five of those are the 15 were considered household contacts. The thing I want to clarify about clusters. Clusters are really only data points for the state. They don't really mean anything in our practice. And when I've been in touch with the state with regard to our with this cluster, and we'll talk about another one, they said that we are doing an amazing job, and they're really happy with the job that we're doing within our schools.
NEXT> Ronnie: You know, all of the mitigation steps we have in place, the only one that we're not doing right now is SaaS. And we'll talk. We'll get to that October.

[R11963-156] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Question, Mr. Kent?
TEXT> When it comes to kids that are not being tested, and I know there's no data on it, but have you heard any common theme of why parents are not getting kids tested?
NEXT> Ronnie: Some are. Some are based upon Frank's earlier comments that you know, it's going all the way to their brain. And they were traumatized from the early testing for a

[R11963-157] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: When it comes to kids that are not being tested, and I know there's no data on it, but have you heard any common theme of why parents are not getting kids tested?
TEXT> Some are.  Some are based upon Frank's earlier comments that you know, it's going all the way to their brain. And they were traumatized from the early testing  for a while before the RV River Valley opened up. It was cost,  a lot of it was cost. And not having,  you know, some people not having insurance. And then it was the long testing times. There was a period of time where we weren't getting we'd send a student out on Monday, but they couldn't get tested to the following Tuesday, believe it or not, because the testing sites were so backed up. So at that point and honestly, don't they don't really have to, unless their student is truly sick or symptomatic.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I.

[R11963-192] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: thing. Anymore, the information I send them when we have the cluster is essentially what's on the form I showed you in the beginning. And they kind of look at it and they put it in their own algorithm and kind of go from there.
TEXT> You know, I give them potential dates when the students in school, their last dates and, and when we know exposures. So we're, we're moving away from that.  So so that being said, the goal is for everybody at this point should be monitoring themselves. It should be you wake up in the morning before you move your head in your bed. You open your eyes, you go, okay, do I have a sore throat? Do I have a headache? Have I got a cough? Do I am I sick, you know, do I need to stay home and possibly do I need to be tested? So this is where they're moving to. This is for right now the where it's going.  It may change if some another God forbid, you know, another strain comes along. But right now this is where where they're moving with it. So that being said, we're not being as specific. You know, what we did was we're letting you know that, yes,  in the elementary schools, we're saying it is in the school. Some of the principals have chosen to say it's been in the 4 or 5, let's say, cohort.
NEXT> Ronnie: And the reason they it's broad is because these are children who have lunch together. These are children who are at recess together. So I can't say for sure, and

[R11963-193] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: not being as specific. You know, what we did was we're letting you know that, yes, in the elementary schools, we're saying it is in the school. Some of the principals have chosen to say it's been in the 4 or 5, let's say, cohort.
TEXT> And the reason they it's broad is because these are children who have lunch together. These are children who are at recess together. So I can't say for sure, and neither can anybody say for sure that your child may or may not have come into contact with the other child. That's why we're asking people to monitor for symptoms. So that's why the,  and we also need to protect privacy. Privacy went out the window last year with this. And you know, we we crossed the line in a lot of ways with asking people a lot of personal questions, a lot of things that you never would have asked before. But, you know, if I'm a personal person and,  and I test positive, my family test positive, I have that basic right for not everybody in the world to know if I choose to share it with you. That's fine. But they should not be hearing it from their teachers, from their nurses, from from the school itself. And so in the letter, it lets you know, when we had,  when we had a, Let's get to the next letter. Stevens is a little bit a special circumstance, which I'll get to in a minute, but. So, for. Example, this is.
NEXT> Ronnie: The middle schools. They're all laid out the same way. We start out with, with how many students? The dates they were last in the building. The rule of thumb

[R11963-194] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: school itself. And so in the letter, it lets you know, when we had, when we had a, Let's get to the next letter. Stevens is a little bit a special circumstance, which I'll get to in a minute, but. So, for. Example, this is.
TEXT> The middle schools.  They're all laid out the same way.  We start out with, with how many students? The dates they were last in the building. The rule of thumb is, if you're in the building on the eighth, chances are you you were a  you could have been potentially exposed on the seventh or the sixth. You go back 48 hours. And that's that's what the the state is doing.  We. Have links. So the length are active and they work if you because they're getting them by school messenger, you click on the link and it takes you to the symptom site. You click on the recommendations. They go to the self observation. Guidelines  and the quarantining. All of them include my email address as the lead nurse  and also the school nurses email address so that they have people to reach out to, who will talk to them and give them what we would like to think is the correct, most up to date information. So they're not hearing it from five different places. They're hearing it from the same people who talk about it day in and day out.  And then,  and then it also read directs you to the matrix,  the, the six matrix. If there are any changes you'd like us to make to the letters, please let me know. It's very fluid and we're willing to do, you know. Yes. Mr. Lambert.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[R11963-199] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Joshua Lambert: Well, not like recess and stuff, but not so concerned with the outside is the inside. So I think.
TEXT> On the inside, their masks, they're all masked inside. When they're inside, they're all masked.  We do have a couple of enclosed classrooms where those students aren't always masked, but they remain in close together, and we keep a watchful eye on them. So the masking in the halls, when they go out to recess, they are not masked.  But they put them on as soon as they come in the building. And we're really strict about that. We are doing handwashing at lunchtime. The masks come off and they eat their lunch and then the masks come back on. We've actually asked them to,  at least in the in the elementary schools, we've asked them to keep, you know, their discussions with each other to a minimum really. You know, businesses eating lunch and then you guys can put on your mask and talk and, and, and do what you need to do. As for asymptomatic, the person who is asymptomatic, unfortunately, that's the chance we take. There's so many people walking around to where asymptomatic that you just you just don't know.  And that's that's one of the really tricky things where, you know, I'm kind of sometimes shaking my magic ball all day long, you know, making decisions for these, you know, whether or not to keep them, ascend them home based upon, you know, symptoms. So there's not a whole lot we can do about the asymptomatic group.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of people.

[R11963-205] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Patients.
TEXT> I've told the parents or  the concerned person is that assume your child is positive and you should just assume your kid has been  has been in contact and that they've been infected and behave as if that has occurred. So that should be your assumption should act accordingly.  Secondly, I was curious whether or not we are  quarantining and treating vaccinated and unvaccinated students and household contacts the same.
NEXT> Tessa Akins: No. So if you are vaccinated, you are allowed to be in school if you are asymptomatic.

[R11963-209] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Tessa Akins: Yes.
TEXT> Now, the second piece of this is that I want to make sure that that this is being really communicated to families that want their kids to stay in school.
NEXT> Tessa Akins: Yes. So this is.

[R11963-211] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Tessa Akins: Yes. So this is.
TEXT> A great way to make sure your kids.
NEXT> Ronnie: It's part of our it's part of our soapbox. I don't have it. You know, I should be standing on it right now. But really, it's part of the speech

[R11963-212] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: A great way to make sure your kids.
TEXT> It's part of our it's part of our soapbox. I don't have it. You know, I should be standing on it right now. But really, it's part of the speech that we give everybody when we say so. Are you by the any chance, vaccinated? Have you gotten your kids vaccinated? Because, you know, you could, you know, they could be in school and and you could, you know, they wouldn't miss any school unless, of course, they were symptomatic. So these are conversations we have, I think until we're we're purple.
NEXT> Tessa Akins: Yes. And going back to his conversation about a parent finding out someone was exposed, I get those calls every day I work. I'm at the middle school. In part

[R11963-230] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member - fragments of his remarks | 2021-10-20
PREV> Ronnie: Normal stuff?
TEXT> Yeah. Because basically what what I see is that basically one in every nine students roughly is on protocol in the total district right now. And out. Of that 1 in 9 students, less than 1 in 3. Are actually coming back positive. So I'm. Just looking I'm sitting here thinking mentally, how much time are these poor students losing yet again? Because  at some juncture, I mean, it's been it's been stated to us, we need to prepare for doomsday. We've had a relatively mild start and there could be, you know, crazy things going on. And I'm just trying to get a real grasp of what our real numbers look like. And honestly, I'm quite impressed with those numbers so far.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We've done a great job.

[R11963-234] Ronnie | Lead school nurse, SAU 6 (first name only on the record; also called V | 2021-10-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Did a great job. Yeah.
TEXT> It's a testament to everybody in the schools. You know, I they're the teachers are amazing. The students actually really get  a lot of the credit because they're doing, you know, for the most part. They're doing what they're supposed to be doing there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for Ronnie.

[R11963-268] Sean LaPlante | Athletic director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean. The plan on'; s | 2021-10-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: Hello everybody.
TEXT> I'm Sean. The plan on the athletic director for Claremont Middle School.  I was asked to come here to kind of give you an update of where we're at on our potential trip that we wanted to do.  I wanted to start with how it actually all started.  At the beginning of the school year, I came up with an idea to try to do a sports committee, and I had a couple  couple kids who applied, and during their interviews, they came up with an idea that,  they wanted to go to professional games  with their teams for,  for, like, a team bonding thing. We started the conversation actually started with just talking about regular sports in general  and then got into that.  So in 24 hours, I got it approved. What I was originally told was they could not we could not use the busses of the schools, but we could,  I could raise money to get a bus.  So I looked into it. I looked, I think I looked at a  butler's bus company, and they gave me a quote of $950  for the bus, and each ticket would cost $35. So what I planned on doing was having everybody pay for their ticket. But then,  including the bus,  the bus seat. So that would be about $55 per person.  When I tried to see how many heads or how many people would go on this trip, it was about 60 to about 80, 80 people.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: I was then told that it can't be a school issue trip, so I was going to actually buy the tickets to as a, as a reservation. But since I'm

[R11963-269] Sean LaPlante | Athletic director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean. The plan on'; s | 2021-10-20
PREV> Sean LaPlante: for their ticket. But then, including the bus, the bus seat. So that would be about $55 per person. When I tried to see how many heads or how many people would go on this trip, it was about 60 to about 80, 80 people.
TEXT> I was then told that it can't be a school issue trip, so I was going to actually buy the tickets to as a, as a reservation. But since I'm a school employee, would count as a school sanctioned tripped  trip. So then I wasn't able to buy the tickets.  And I was I kind of asked some questions, like, why, why can't I or what? What can I do or what can I do? I was kind of confused at we were we were kind of approved that we could go on this trip, but I couldn't,  but I couldn't organize it. So I was very confused. And I guess the answer was that a parent had to organize it, or a parent had to buy or set up the trip,  and I couldn't use busses from the school. Still.  And I couldn't pay for the bus myself.  Which I was willing to do.  And I was kind of left with my head held down and not knowing which direction to go.  And that's kind of why I'm  here now, just to kind of explain where I'm at and what we could do to solve this  concern that I have,  because I know that a bunch of kids really do want to go.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: I have about 60 kids signed up right now, that I have in my form that I sent out. But I, I know about 80 kids want to do it.

[R11963-270] Sean LaPlante | Athletic director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean. The plan on'; s | 2021-10-20
PREV> Sean LaPlante: which direction to go. And that's kind of why I'm here now, just to kind of explain where I'm at and what we could do to solve this concern that I have, because I know that a bunch of kids really do want to go.
TEXT> I have about 60 kids signed up right now,  that I have in my form that I sent out.  But I, I know about 80 kids want to do it. They just heard that that we we weren't going to do it through the school. Any questions?
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: So what was the reason you were given why you can't use the busses? Exactly.

[R11963-283] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So why can't he charter a bus?
TEXT> He can. What what Sean has everyone knows. And we're thankful for the the energy and the drive of kids getting back to normal and  things that are going on in the middle school. He can be involved. What we said was we didn't want to use any of our our  busses and things like that. He's involved in the organizational, as you know, Sean, as a person right now, he's ready to go into his own pocket to make stuff happen for kids. That's the part that we want to make sure that we're not  overextending. And, you know, all I said in that meeting  to the principals was, see if you can get a private charter, see if you can maybe the, you know, great partners with  the rec center and things like that. If anyone else would step in, we're not going to say not to do it, because it's just like life. But we're not willing to to risk our drivers in the busses. That's that's as far as as it went. And we're also preparing for what we may have to reel back if it escalates. During the winter season, most districts in the we we don't know what we're going to take in the one. I let you have that  point.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Our best team. Performance in the fall season for for having no incidence of Covid infection was actually the volleyball team indoors. Okay. So hats off to them. They they

[R11963-297] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: If he.
TEXT> The discussion we had was to see if it can be, you know, don't you have the energy? Kids want to go live life. But we we don't want to be a part of it. We we didn't I didn't get into that depth with with principal Romeo or Sean, but what we what we intended was that if there's a private group that could go there, we're not looking to be a wet blanket on what people are already doing in the world. It you it shouldn't go through, though in general, it shouldn't it shouldn't be a mixed message. Okay. That that we're using principal funds and other types of things to send people that way. I mean, we can help out. And I think the, the energy of the stuff that's going on in the middle school speaks for itself, that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I don't think he's asking for that.

[R11963-329] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> I just can't. If we're sending kids to,  sporting events, we're seeing that as a value. That's really kind of an extracurricular activity as well. I mean, all these events off school property that we're using busses for, and we've committed as a board and we've committed as a district to support those kind of activities. And I actually think this is an extension of a sporting activity. So,  I, I have to I do kind of question the I mean, how much more risk are we actually put in that one bus?
NEXT> Unidentified: It's a.

[R11963-355] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-10-20
PREV> Steven Horsky: Josh.
TEXT> So maybe maybe I can delegate it to you guys. So what what what I'd like to to see is possibly farming out, going through the different categories. Those of you who haven't worked with school policies, they, they tease out into several broad categories, like students and staff and different contexts of, of the policies. And  they actually may require all of us to kind of go in and  figure out which ones to break the task down into many parts, because there are a lot of policies.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Yeah, it would be greatly appreciated if we could get everybody to kind of, you know, take a little section and go through and just say, hey, this one's through,

[R11963-402] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: bad it can be? Because I was pretty sick, and I was vaccinated. 102 fever. So, so I'm going to wear a mask even though I'm vaccinated and have had it. I just don't know. There's not enough known. Heather, maybe you can speak to.
TEXT> In the opposite camp. Leave it or not. Well, so. And you and I kind of chatted about that. So  the optics that I think are important is that when you're vaccinated, you get to do this. And that moves us forward in the community. And we have a 44.8% vaccination rate, and it's only gone up 0.8% since the beginning of the school year. With everybody talking about it. And the optics that I want to send out is that we have 90% of the people, if not 100% of the people in this room, vaccinated. And when you do that, it moves you closer to normalcy. We also are adults or not,  engaging with children right now,  who don't have the option to protect themselves in that manner. And so for me, the optics are are that way. I want to people to say, listen, you do you do what you're supposed to do or and I'm not saying anybody should, but there's there's a benefit to it. There's benefit to the community and to the district.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To wear masks.

[R11963-469] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster of short interjections, backchannel and group r | 2021-10-20
PREV> Steven Horsky: is I'm going to play a little favoritism here because we didn't have it on our agenda. And I missed it when making the amendments to the agenda. But we did have our student rep available with a report. So let's make sure we have.
TEXT> A student before.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How long is it?

[R11963-475] Emily | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (first | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Not.
TEXT> A journey much back from the elementary schools. Mostly because I emailed them, like two days ago, so I didn't get much from them. But the juniors and seniors had PSAT and SATs. Last week we had the suicide awareness walk on the 16th, the Bernard Cup and the Puerto Rico trip, which I was told was supposed to be spoken about. But we have 52 students signed up.  We have a financial aid tomorrow night.  Were instructed to see if there. I believe it's virtual.  The senior play we just found out is scheduled for the spring. Despite of all the Covid stuff. And homecoming is the Saturday.
NEXT> Unidentified: Awesome.

[R11963-495] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Disappointing.
TEXT> One more thing for business for next agenda,  I had a request from a  homeschool parent who was told that her child was not going to be able to take the SAT at Stevens. I directed her to Pat Barry.  So Pat is going to  address that. But what it sounded like is that in the past, Evans has hosted SATs on Saturdays. We're not doing that.  And when we have hosted SATs in the past, anybody from anywhere in the state can County register and you can take the exam.  And so the conundrum was, are we going to bring home school students within the building, which is something that we haven't done before. The home school students have always taken the exam on the day that non district or folks that are not enrolled in the school, and so are they going to get different treatments simply because we have opted out.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are you talking about the April administration the school day.

[R11963-498] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Tessa Akins: Correct.
TEXT> The  the parent wanted the home school students, her home school student to take the SAT at that time?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are they Claremont residents?

[R11963-500] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-10-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are they Claremont residents?
TEXT> They are Claremont residents. But our historic precedent has been at the home school students take the SAT on the Saturday when other people who do not, who are who are taking the SAT for whatever reason, like I drove my daughter somewhere to get to take the 2 or 3 times.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's not.

[R11963-514] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-20
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And just to clarify, maybe you're going there, Frank. The the idea to have it in the school days, you have higher participation rates. There's conflicts for kids getting their hardships. And that's why everyone tries to do it in school. So I don't I don't know why they would.
NEXT> Unidentified: Be excluded.

[R11980-138] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-10-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: I don't see the SO6 website.
TEXT> Yeah. So we we had hoped to be able to demonstrate that today. We're still in process with that  should be up next week. So it's,  converted to a  much slicker, user friendly  app to G as the outfit. So it's, it's designed to go to  people's phones.  Timmy Morse has been doing a great job.  You know, kind of corralling all of that, meeting with people, training people how to use it. Shows the things that  parents, in the end, users and students,  you know, the the go to the, the sports schedules, the lunch, what's on the menu, all the other stuff, how you can pull up and get push outs  to your phone. It truly is  app featured and it's not. Some of the features that we have now are it's tough to navigate. It's just it's slicker. It's it's more business like and I think it's going to go over very,  very well in the community and people are going to like it. So we're excited about it a little bit delayed, but it should be good features. Yes. Steve.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The.

[R12005-10] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-11-03
PREV> Mary Woodman: And Emily Horsey here.
TEXT> Okay. We have an agenda in front of us. And,  I'd like to add two things. We are going to add a quick, very brief non meeting at the end of this meeting. And I would also like to add the student rep report. And that will be right in front of the superintendent's report. And we'll get into that portion of the meeting.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I make a motion to approve the agenda as amended.

[R12005-31] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1; former Claremont School Board member (ASR 'J | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Citizens. Comments. It's a familiar face, name and word, please.
TEXT> Even though I think most of you know me. My name is Jason. Ben. Where? Ward one. It's been a while since I've been in here. Hopefully everyone is doing well. I came for to, I guess, mention a couple of things or ask a couple of questions. Make some observations. The first one involves the proposed restructure of the schools, and I've had some conversations and and  we've had some time to hash this out. And I'm not really here to talk about the merit of whether or not the  restructuring is meritorious, whether the the pedagogical stuff outweighs the social emotional stuff or anything like that. But what I am coming to talk about is in the  newspaper or  in an interview.  I think, Mike, we were quoted as saying something to the effect of we don't see this being  increasing the cost of, of anything, essentially. So we don't see the cost of, of restructuring being more than what we're currently doing.  My kind of my concern on this is that initially when we kind of talked about restructuring, the initial idea was that it would reduce costs to, to to teach kids in Claremont. And now we fit a point where it's not going to increase costs.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And I think a lot of that has to do with trying to slide, not slide, but put this pre-K program into the mix. Now, I recall from doing budgets

[R12005-32] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1; former Claremont School Board member (ASR 'J | 2021-11-03
PREV> Jason Benware: kind of my concern on this is that initially when we kind of talked about restructuring, the initial idea was that it would reduce costs to, to to teach kids in Claremont. And now we fit a point where it's not going to increase costs.
TEXT> And I think a lot of that has to do with trying to slide, not slide, but put this pre-K program into the mix.  Now, I recall from doing budgets in the past somewhere and it may be higher and maybe low, but I think that currently what we've got going on over here with the,  the pre-K program that's going on it probably I think it's maybe costing one half $1 million or more to run that program currently. And this year, I don't know what that cost is, but you guys could probably tell me,  and that's not a huge group of kids. And so we're looking at basically adding having two years worth of kids coming to pre-K. So to me that means that cost would be considerably more than what it currently is.  I just have a concern with taking money that we would potentially be saving by restructuring, and then putting it into something that is likely going to cost us more money year after year.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So out of curiosity, I sat down today because I'd like to kind of know what I'm talking about. Obviously, I'm not always right about things. However, I started to

[R12005-47] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: staff list, we've graduated up the kids who are currently now, we've looked at the projections in the historical over the past 2 or 3 years to see that the enrollment of what to expect in and the students that are that are coming up.
TEXT> And we do think and it does seem more feasible to,  not have and also in hearing the feedback as well. And what we've been looking at,  we still have to model it and we're going to model it a couple of ways. But where we talked about before there being going to all three schools, we are  focused now, particularly on the bus routes and  the size of the schools and what we're looking at, and knowing that we have to present all this  at every step to the Budget Committee to see where we are. And we have a meeting and another meeting on Friday to show some of these,  pieces.  That's it's looking positive that we can do that with the same staff or less. That's me saying with the same staff or less something that we said throughout that we know that those were,  marching orders, you know, kind of kind of looking at all of this. And nothing has changed in that regard. And I want to be clear on that.  So in terms of the schedule change, schedule change, also,  in looking at combining, okay, we'll be looking at making the the three secondary schools, the middle school, Stevens High School and the tech Center having common schedules where,  you could have students at the middle school accessing some of the programs at  the tech center.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You could have ninth graders and 10th graders at the high school, at more at the tech center. And you would also be able to have more time in core

[R12005-49] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: stress this enough. Even with our administrative team. We had a meeting right before this. We go back and this is the first this is the slide that we used. And actually, from the presentation Mr. Bennett was talking about, this slide was put out.
TEXT> This was in that that actually first budget  presentation. It's the exact same slide. So  that's what we were talking about.  And this is this is one that I can speak to  now  we're looking at. So just to show you some of the ways of, of,  of looking at the bus routes and how we would move  folks around. And this is when I need to use my glasses. That's bad. All right. So those that's how we're, how we're working on the bus routes. We started the next day after the last meeting.  The,  the  the far upper right corner. Those are the class sizes of classes in the elementary schools in in K today. Okay. So and they're very similar to what we're looking to  to move towards as well and kind of net some of the other resources  that we have, which we will obviously show show to  the board to get approval. But there's about 12 kids in a K class, 15 in first grade, 15 and second just under 18 and third grade average,  fourth grade,  right around 15 and right around 18 at  in the fifth grade currently now.  And we think those numbers would be about the same. What you see that's different. And this is where we are.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And I stress this is just where we are from the last meeting okay. And we still have to vet all of these numbers. But the 379 that we had,

[R12005-50] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: second just under 18 and third grade average, fourth grade, right around 15 and right around 18 at in the fifth grade currently now. And we think those numbers would be about the same. What you see that's different. And this is where we are.
TEXT> And I stress this is just where we are from the last meeting okay. And we still have to vet all of these numbers. But the 379 that we had, the first go in the first go round is closer to 320. And that's modeling the pre-K,  where we would double those numbers but not really need any more staff. Okay. We used to have and we can talk about that anyway. And we can come and show you more historical and some of the data that was asked over the weekend to have for this.  We have some of that for you today, but there's also others in our meeting  with the early childhood, and we can a little bit more time. We could have more longitudinal and we can look at other types of effects of what has actually happened here locally as well, looking at the students. But what we're looking at now, and the reason there's a question mark next to a question mark Maple in Bluff, is we use the same grid, but what we're looking at is what the projected numbers are.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: 320 are rolling that all in where we had first looked at it at 379. It seems to be we actually graduated the kids and moved them forward with the

[R12005-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: So so.
TEXT> The three year olds are students who are in  special needs students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay.

[R12005-63] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Any group of.
TEXT> Kids of a certain age would be.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: In Claremont, would be approximately approximately.

[R12005-66] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - runs the meeting from the superintenden | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The same size.
TEXT> As any other group of kids of the same age. So how many ninth graders are there? They're 129th graders is 126 eighth graders or something like that. Wouldn't that be similar with three and four year olds?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No. So the three year olds are not required to educate. Usually only the ones that were. There's early intervention and things like that. Who that that is that is

[R12005-72] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - runs the meeting from the superintenden | 2021-11-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Social infrastructure bill that may or may not pass. So this could or could not be a non-issue depending on I don't know what the implementation, forecast is for that if it passes, but I think that was still on the table in that bill.
TEXT> My problem with jumping in, sorry, that bill is that, it's just for us alone. If we were to start a preschool based on a population of 250 kids, that's like a whole school. And that's that's going to cost a lot. And just in Claremont, that's a million probably would be $1 million. And if the feds are paying for that, there's only $1,000 in a, in a billion. You know, you want to go with this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Oh yeah.

[R12005-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: And it's not enough money. And you know. So I'm just throwing that out there.
TEXT> So one historical piece on this again that we just came into  today and we'll get more on this is  pre Covid. And we have some of this in Mary Ellen and Brynn worked on us. And we have some of the slides in here. And then we can follow up with it. But before Covid there were 120 kids in the program 110  all the time. So all we're talking about is going back with the same staff that they have. They didn't have more staff. They've done this before with the same. It's not at capacity. So more people access the afternoon classes than they are.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So well, how many kids are in it.

[R12005-78] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - runs the meeting from the superintenden | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: 110 all the time. So all we're talking about is going back with the same staff that they have. They didn't have more staff. They've done this before with the same. It's not at capacity. So more people access the afternoon classes than they are.
TEXT> So well, how many kids are in it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Right now? 52.

[R12005-85] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (medium - answers the pre-K / Hea | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Here, but not.
TEXT> There's a 5050 ratio. So the three year olds that are in the program often are, there's a 5050 ratio for mainstream  or students who are typically developing students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I was wondering what is the how many special needs kids are right now.

[R12005-86] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - runs the meeting from the superintenden | 2021-11-03
PREV> Ben Nester: There's a 5050 ratio. So the three year olds that are in the program often are, there's a 5050 ratio for mainstream or students who are typically developing students.
TEXT> I was wondering what is the  how many special needs kids are right now.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There's right.

[R12005-88] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: There's right.
TEXT> So the in the the idea on that for people who aren't familiar with it is in that program as mandated that we have to have  a program similar to that with peer models, or we could just educate the other kids without peers. Okay. Solely kind of. It's a somewhat antiquated model to have them,  not have typical peer role models at that age. Okay. So that's that's one aspect of it.  The other aspect of it is it's really helpful for the typical students to not. And we have  and I forget the exact numbers we've had waiting, I think 22 people. That brings a bell 22 or something.
NEXT> Ben Nester: We have 22 on.

[R12005-103] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Thank you Steve. Thanks, Steve.
TEXT> Yeah. And my my goal was to go through these to put it out there. If there were citizens here to be for them. Ready after this to have the comments for that. That was. All right.  Next slide is this. Now we're getting it to some of the data. So this is the in Mary Ellen we'll talk about this after. But we kind of looked at  of the survey information we had in the pre screens and all the other self stuff identified. We looked at where the students are. Right. We know that there's approximately historically about 120 parallel to other classes that are here by the time they get to kindergarten. And these are the other and some of the,  the folks in the,  in the forum also mentioned, you know, talking about the other providers in the area and what happens throughout.  And so we wanted to get that information to you. And I share that email that to you as well.  Of the incoming kindergartens, where exactly did they go? And that's the distribution. That's,
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm not sure.

[R12005-111] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: To five five okay.
TEXT> All right. So next slide that I have is  the talking about the schedule change.  Since I've been here I get asked to to present to the teachers right when I got here in the fall of 19. This is the first they asked about other schedules. This is was a  popular schedule that I put into a couple districts in metro West Massachusetts,  and basically all I was trying to do was show them schedules of which and how you could move blocks around, have cycles, and gain more time for students on learning and core content. So and that's that's what I did. Prior. To this. As you know, they  I don't know the exact 5 or 6 years before that, maybe only four. They went to the Supreme Court over a schedule  going to an eight be schedule. It was contentious. And then they had a scheduling committee that was in name but didn't meet that often. And then that's why we I'm just showing the recent history, but it's something that's been on  at least burner front or back for a while now.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, what I show the next one is this is from the 2019 presentation. Basically, I showed the summary of how you could get more hours, how you might have

[R12005-112] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: was contentious. And then they had a scheduling committee that was in name but didn't meet that often. And then that's why we I'm just showing the recent history, but it's something that's been on at least burner front or back for a while now.
TEXT> So,  what I show the next one is this is from the 2019 presentation. Basically, I showed the summary of how you could get more hours, how you might have different values per classes,  credit credits per class depending on the meeting time. Much like any of us back in the high school days, even the college days.  Example, if you had a lab science used, those are four credits where a regular class might be three for the additional time and the value of that. How you can do that, how you can gain that all within the same, with the same teaching resources, within the same schedule. There's a lot of it's tedious to get there, but you can pull it off from the summer. I also just showed the comparison, which is in the  up on the screen now that if we went to a year round with five five classes meeting all the time that were an hour over the course of a year, that you would gain about 40% more time in a class, about a month and a half more of school during the same  calendar year in that content area. Reason we're looking at all of these is what ways what ways within our control can we have more focus on the core content so that kids are going higher and still have them  with access to other courses that they might want to take?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's why.

[R12005-114] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: So that's why.
TEXT> All right. So  next, next is another schedule,  where we looked at a student. So this is a 12th grade student. These are the elements that we went in there. This is known as a cycle or  some of them are very that don't drop that are very consistent are called waterfall schedules. But this also has a fixed block, last block  for mentorships for other types of classes in the community  and for other. We've tried to get the best out of  what would be looked for in every course. So we have some of the courses in here are  engineering. These were actual students where I took their schedule and then just made it into this, what it would look like. All right. The next one is actually one of our teachers, our chemistry teacher,  the model. Then again, this is from 19, what it would look like to have labs  backed up in more meeting times for, for chemistry and professional learning communities with in the day. Next slide is the  just to impress upon people in. Many of you in the biz may know of this or  you have look at this. But this is  from two years ago.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the Stevens High School and, school profile, where it talks about what we offer for courses, how they how they meet, where our kids go to school, graduate

[R12005-137] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - runs the meeting from the superintenden | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: which teachers they even had based on where they are in their achievement. And as Heather suggests, this really, neutralizes that effect because you've got strong teachers working with people who are less strong and, and sharing strategies and sharing assessments in their professional knowledge.
TEXT> So there is,  a great opportunity. I think, from a pedagogical point of view, I think there are other issues that I'm less thrilled about, but I but I do think that the overall and I've been consistent with this, that the the overall level of support we can give kids inconsistent teaching, it's it can't be matched other than through the model that you're proposing. So, Steve.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So if we go back to page. Or slide number six, and the reason I want to go back to that, and if we look at the way that things

[R12005-146] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2021-11-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: question actually. So what we're looking at here is regular distributions that there's similar inequities or any equities and imbalances among specialists and case managers in the different schools. How do those case loads look for case managers and guidance counselors and related services people.
TEXT> Generally generally they're they're the same or the special educators, 15 to 20 kids per school, per, you know, per caseload. I don't know about guidance. You know, I don't know how that that shakes out in terms of what their caseload to look like. We can do some quick math and I can get that. Get that to you, Frank.  As far as specialists go again there, it varies a little bit. But if you know, if someone has a case load that's that's ramping up over at bluff, then we sort of floaters. Right. So they may do like three days of bluff and two days of maple or something like that. So our the assignments that I give people are not necessarily building specific okay. They're right.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Okay. Okay.

[R12005-161] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: not. Do we need everything. You know, so many entry sections of math, like when you review what we offer as a profile, there's a response to some of, I want to I don't want to say this like it's a beating up on it.
TEXT> But if people haven't been successful in certain courses, particularly core courses, and they struggle to even graduate, and we know of the recent graduation rates and impacts to that. But, you know, by recent, I mean the last five years, not just Covid years. So if the system is flawed and we're not getting the results and kids are not achieving, even upon entry of the high school, where we see some of the most significant delays in kids dropping out earlier than junior and senior year. So we need to address those things. This is how this is how we think we can do that. So I was looking for something. Having done a few schedules, master schedules itself. First thing I thought when I looked at the high school schedule, particularly with sort of the waterfall, first thing that comes into my mind is, Newport Tech classes. So region ten. Yeah. You sent an email out, about that. There's an upcoming region ten meeting. Correct? There is next Wednesday. And,  do you want to talk a little bit about what what we've been talking about, say, the subcommittee? Sure. So so one of the things that has been brought up since I've been here by members in the members on the board can talk about that as well, is,  the,  the benefit.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So and basically and you've worked it you've had the privilege of perspective of being in both places and there's some things and I just mentioned this in the 18

[R12005-162] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: bit about what what we've been talking about, say, the subcommittee? Sure. So so one of the things that has been brought up since I've been here by members in the members on the board can talk about that as well, is, the, the benefit.
TEXT> So and basically and you've worked it you've had the privilege of perspective of being in both places and there's some things and I just mentioned this in the 18 meeting, and I talked to Doctor Herzog all the time. And sometimes we're frustrated because of the layout of the tech building and the campus of Stevens versus the the campus at Newport, where the the middle school in the high school and the tech are all in the same building in Newport. There's there's all these other  aspects of it that that are  seem to be more conducive to the success. Double doors and in your end and there's no and you're in culture rated as a middle school person that wow, that's that's my sib over there. They're in this shop. That's cool. That's and part of that is what we're trying to fill with, with the middle school proximity to this amazing resource in getting more kids from there and also getting more kids also from the,  getting more kids  from the early grades in the high school, up, up as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that that's what we're, that's that's what we're, we're talking about. I don't know if I answered that yet a little distracted. Well, we're we've talked about continuing regional.

[R12005-163] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: is what we're trying to fill with, with the middle school proximity to this amazing resource in getting more kids from there and also getting more kids also from the, getting more kids from the early grades in the high school, up, up as well.
TEXT> So that that's what we're, that's that's what we're, we're talking about. I don't know if I answered that yet a little distracted. Well, we're we've talked about continuing regional. Yeah. Yeah. And if, if it's, if it's and what does that involve. Is it, is it is it worth. We've also seen that it's almost 2 to 1 or 3 to 1 where we, we send kids to Newport versus that are coming here, kids that are taking advantage of it. And basically what we we talked about and I  assure you that no,  mince words in the budget subcommittee, meaning that what's the value, what's the value of,  of the courses we have now? I'm not making a value judgment on, on someone who, who studies,  engineering or or culinary or something like that. But if it's not a requirement in the course, and we're putting a valuation on all of the courses that we offer, all of the programs that we offer, the staffing that we  can afford.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. What's the net gain? So some of those things I have that's that's what's on the table. And, and that's, that's what we'll be discussing. So I don't know

[R12005-165] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: lot about it, and I've seen, you know, all I know is the, the the, the impacts for our region are different because of the scale of our schools versus, you know, like a, like a Concord or a Manchester and things like that. So.
TEXT> Okay, so this one's going to be a multifaceted question. So or  a multi I guess it'll be multiple questions. What's our current enrollment in enrollment in this building. Currently number of students that attend here a day.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The number of day I don't have that off the top of my head. So we we will have that.

[R12005-169] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: To have a say it again, I'm sorry.
TEXT> Are we contractually obligated to have the tech center inside the district and housed with if it's underutilized, if we've got a handful of students coming here and it's it's underutilized and we're not getting a good production for the cost between the building and the staffing, I am a big fan of the tech center. I used to come over from Newport to come here and take plumbing and heating, hence why I'm really asking this question, because I'm also looking at it at the point is, is that if this building is that underutilized and it's not working for the for the community and the student enrollments are continuing to decline over here and the programs are shrinking, then we definitely need to address that, because these are electives. And if we're having to make a decision to keep mathematics, English and science to make a schedule that's more fluid, it just raises the question, are we  trying to offer too much, maintain too many buildings and too much staff for limited production? That's where my question really rides on this one.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And once again, I am a fan of this building. I went to this building, but realistically, if it's becoming so underutilized, we've had opportunities a couple times that I

[R12005-170] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Steven Horsky: to keep mathematics, English and science to make a schedule that's more fluid, it just raises the question, are we trying to offer too much, maintain too many buildings and too much staff for limited production? That's where my question really rides on this one.
TEXT> And once again, I am a fan of this building. I went to this building, but realistically, if it's becoming so underutilized, we've had opportunities a couple times that I know of to take money in, and we don't know what we want to do with the building. I believe we're still in that same boat. So realistically, that tells me that this building is probably not as productive as it could be or should be. So if we keep passing it down the list, it just creates question. A lot of question in my mind, because if I have students that are not competent in science, English and math, that's my focus. That's my requirement to provide versus a building that provides electives. I'd rather spend the money to get my students up to par, have the proper staff to do so on the things that they need every day. If, in fact, this is just being a very underutilized building and very costly to maintain and staff, that's kind of where I'm going with it. Yeah, but I'll say it for a third time. I'm not talking about shutting down the tech because I'm a fan of it, but we really need to look at how we're utilizing the space.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: When I ask what I think you're asking more directly, I'm going to be more direct than Steve. So. So if you shut this building down and the penalties are

[R12005-171] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Steven Horsky: and staff, that's kind of where I'm going with it. Yeah, but I'll say it for a third time. I'm not talking about shutting down the tech because I'm a fan of it, but we really need to look at how we're utilizing the space.
TEXT> When I ask what I think you're asking more directly, I'm going to be more direct than Steve. So. So if you shut this building down and the penalties are there penalties if we shut the building. So that's that's what we have.  We have a meeting to talk about that I don't know that there are I do know that there's a timeline, there's a phasing. But I also don't know that that we have to  would have to look at is  in what will be the subject of  at least part of the. I want to bring it up in the in the region ten is there are calibrations and formulas for usage of classes, right. So that there's a, this kind of you don't want more than 12 in. So it's like four and four and then three with son and the son of B. Kids don't seem to to come. And there there's just a lot of dated things that in processes as well that we that I'm not comfortable if we don't streamline when they create the schedules, they've changed their schedule, we've changed our schedule without even talking to each other.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And obviously there's impacts to that, to class times and other times. So that's why, you know, I did reach out to Brendan and Alex. So we we want to

[R12005-173] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Newport perspective and, and vice versa. But the, I do think in terms of employment, you I don't think anyone can argue how hot the health sector is right now, particularly regionally, for working wages and everything that you can access and all the other.
TEXT> And I just I don't know, when you talk about studies and data, I don't know of students that I think some kids who are into health who who access the Newport, they're all set. But I don't, I don't know I don't know the equity of all of that to historical. And that's what I want to just have really frank discussions and timelines of what your schedule, how you're scheduling. And let's, let's talk and do that together more so that that's where we are. And I'm not saying there's I,  I'm just I'm very competitive with resources and scheduling and outcomes, and I just, I want to make sure we're getting everything out of that agreement that we should be getting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If we did.

[R12005-187] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we are freed from the region ten, can we just start our own? I have suspicions it's not that easy. Right. But I also know that there's other programs. Or can we up up at the at the community college, I guess is another avenue.
TEXT> I was going to say that was my next piece is, is can we interestingly enough, if we were to consolidate in this being a thing of consolidation, would we be better off trying to partner further with River Valley to offer basically a P courses, slash college courses for the accelerated students and paying for it with what we'd save in the dysfunctional building per se? Once again, we don't have the numbers to to know exact enrollments and how effective this building is being used.
NEXT> Unidentified: So just to circle back to that in the four programs that exist in the building, that's about 100 students a day.

[R12005-188] Unidentified | Unidentified - administrator giving tech-center enrollment (about 100  | 2021-11-03
PREV> Steven Horsky: basically a P courses, slash college courses for the accelerated students and paying for it with what we'd save in the dysfunctional building per se? Once again, we don't have the numbers to to know exact enrollments and how effective this building is being used.
TEXT> So just to circle back to that in the four programs that exist in the building, that's about 100 students a day.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So 25 per class, roughly.

[R12005-200] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: finish out. And I don't want to alarm folks at home if they're already in. And I don't think it's the case that we wouldn't, it would probably be at least a one year or a two year phase out. When you go into that.
TEXT> It's pretty complicated. That's usually standard. And I also liken it to the,  the tuition agreement that we did with Goshen, where we're the anchor school. That doesn't mean we get everyone at all, but they need to make sure that they have a place. I would be concerned, and I'm sure some  parents and students at home are concerned. They really got into one of these programs and they want, you know, so that that's that's what we still have to do our due diligence and see what we have and how we have it. We also have to remember that some of the courses that are in the tech,  and I will show the numbers. It's not fair to just talk about this without having all the numbers out there. And we'll have that in the next, next meeting and presentations and the like. But  part of  some of the programs were low enrolled and then some of the programs, and there are a couple and this is the one that I,  the culinary program, we had health  excuse me home act, kind of a traditional home act. That teacher retired and then those courses were added to the culinary over here because so many people wanted them so that they came from Stevens and went over here and a similar fashion we had  accounting  that that was reduced a little bit here.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But what it just makes me wonder, what if we had accounting or business or other types of offerings like economics, like we have and had had for years successfully

[R12005-220] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair - second cluster; also carries Richard Se | 2021-11-03
PREV> Ben Nester: You know, again, we did.
TEXT> That and and that No Child Left Behind came and said, no, you can't do that.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, right. There you go. It's also.

[R12005-402] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah.
TEXT> So as I understand this and I. I'm pulling it up now in very big fonts,  but the, This is particularly with the quarantining. So the new let me just get right to the, the, the line of the difference was that you have you can be out for up to the unvaccinated person or Covid person is moved into a completely separate living space or right there's or is and and  conditions to it where it's incentivizing more people to be  vaccinated. Right. So the unvaccinated person of Covid positions moved into a completely separate or which is hard to do, right? These things are hard to do, particularly in students. And, and,  parents are  in the same home. It's hard to do. The unvaccinated person or Covid 19 person is sleeping in a separate bedroom or sleeping,  space away from the Covid person. And the unvaccinated person is able to avoid ongoing close contact within the safe home. If a person of the above can happen, then the unvaccinated person must quarantine for ten days. If circumstances prevent the person from being able to pull those things off, then the person must quarantine for a total of 20 days. Ten days will the Covid 19  positive person quarantines, and then ten days for the unvaccinated household members to quarantine?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In fact, this sounds familiar because it's what we did the previous year where you didn't risk anything. And we also contact race and did all these other things to

[R12005-403] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - cluster also carries the chair's opening busin | 2021-11-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: days. If circumstances prevent the person from being able to pull those things off, then the person must quarantine for a total of 20 days. Ten days will the Covid 19 positive person quarantines, and then ten days for the unvaccinated household members to quarantine?
TEXT> In fact, this sounds familiar because it's what we did the previous year where you didn't risk anything. And we also contact race and did all these other things to prevent what's not parallel. And I get this from the parent. I get it from from my perspective to is when we have abandoned some of that contact tracing the other things, and now we're coming in at this juncture, this parent ask, well, wait a minute. This affected me a different way just a few months ago. Why the change now? The change is intended for more people to come out and be vaccinated. We know that those vaccines are coming out shortly, within a week or so, for,  for, for students  five,  five years and older, 5 to 11, that range. We know that's happening and we feel and I can say it that, you know, as a obviously as a superintendent of the district and we do recommend that vaccination.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I also understand the the freedom in how people feel about vaccinations and rights and things like that and all of that. And I support the tough decision to do

[R12033-18] Dr. Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Doctor Janeiro'; surname spellin | 2021-11-18
PREV> Mary Woodman: The.
TEXT> The scope and sequence  is the work that that will follow.  And that will take place beginning in the spring. But it's something that,  will be ongoing through next year as well.  And it really provides something more substantial for, for new teachers to be able to  be handed as they walk in the door.  We do have a very high turnover rate. 61% of our teachers are new within the last three years, and  it will be a delight to be able to hand them. More information than what we are currently able to do. And, for Claremont, this is a review for you can't hurt. But,  the work helps us to meet our goals and that it reduces repetition and learning. It addresses gaps. It makes the knowledge more meaningful. It allows us to align across content areas as well as across the content themselves, but also to be able to do things,  so that we're not learning in a vacuum. If there's,  an article that that's being shared with students that's informational about something in science, then  the science class can link to that. Social studies can link to it. There might be some math connection that could be made. It sets clear expectations. We, our goal is transparency. Transparency for students, for families, and for teachers to be able to understand  what the right order of learning is and coverage that we're making sure that we are targeting.
NEXT> Dr. Janeiro: It in the most logical, methodical way. It sparks professional growth. I've already heard a lot of really great comments. Teachers got together for their second curriculum, PD, on Tuesday,

[R12033-19] Dr. Janeiro | Curriculum administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Doctor Janeiro'; surname spellin | 2021-11-18
PREV> Dr. Janeiro: math connection that could be made. It sets clear expectations. We, our goal is transparency. Transparency for students, for families, and for teachers to be able to understand what the right order of learning is and coverage that we're making sure that we are targeting.
TEXT> It in the most logical,  methodical way. It sparks professional growth. I've already heard a lot of really great comments. Teachers got together for their second curriculum, PD, on Tuesday, and I was happy to get home and already have a couple emails from teachers saying, thanks for the opportunity to get together with my colleagues from the other schools. It was meaningful and,  helpful and and looking forward to doing more of that. So the conversations that the teachers are being able to have a really valuable it also helps us to make decisions faster for prioritizing learning. It helps us to to look at where individual students are, where classes are, where grades are, and also where the district stands. So it gives us all kinds of,  tools in order to make those decisions.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So what we what we looked at, we we started looking at standards and we got a lot of all kinds of data, every, every grade given over the last

[R12033-22] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-11-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and sophomore year all the way through. Took a little bit of everything from nursing, programs as well as computer programing and the like, you know, very ambitious student, just exactly what you like to see someone really applying themselves, putting, putting it out there.
TEXT> And so it made me think and dig into the data a little bit to see if we had more students like that, or if this was just a far outlier student. And we do we have we have students over the past 5 or 6 years who've graduated with, you know,  12,  15 credits.  It's pretty regular. And I'll show you some of that data here. I had was fortunate enough. I was asked to, meet with a folks at the visitor center  this morning in Claremont,  some of the business leaders, and they wanted just clarification on what they had read about the tech center and what was the status of that with the Regents. And, and,  you know, we I basically  spoke to them about how we're looking at maximizing the, you know, the schedules and the like and that there's no definitive,  steps that have been taken to to pull out of the agreement with Newport. But we were considering  monitoring  that or amending it, which we still have time to do. And in fact, I will see  those folks tomorrow as well  and continue that conversation. But the driver for that conversation was to to maximize all the things that we have in the tech center to try to get the as in Newport success, where they had their middle school accessing the tech center during the day.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It's a different layout, different campus, but the same concepts. That's what we're talking about in our in our board meetings and in the retreat as well. So those are

[R12033-26] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-11-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: not seeing the impact in, in, in schools as much. But it is concerning and we'll continue to monitor it. The nurses are doing an amazing job with that. We have a great team, but it's, it's it's and you can also see the vaccinations.
TEXT> And I also want to put out I like to thank everyone who who took advantage of the vaccination  at the on Veterans Day at the fire station. We have an event coming up that you will be pushed out  shortly on Sunday, December 5th, from ten to to 5 p.m. at the  Claremont Middle School. It's going to be open to the public as well. Anyone can can go and you'll get more information on that. But that's really all that that we  that we can do. And again, it's great to see the participation of everyone and  standing by those protocols and not sending, you know, kids in when they're sick. It's it's it's still persistent not not going away. But I like to thank everyone for that. So and that's that's all I had so and almost got out without the Covid slide.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: But I saw the numbers.

[R12033-101] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-11-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Is page.
TEXT> Four of the handout which shows the apportionment. And the apportionment is based on both the average daily attendance or and it's also based on the valuation in each one of the communities. So unity is going to benefit again next year as we have an increase in students more than what they had. And so of the of the apportionment, Claremont is going up by 37,000 and unity is going up in this case by four. But that will become a part of the budgets as we're going through the Claremont School District budget and  the unity budgets. So we'll look to have an approval on the budget in December. I think we have a meeting set up for the 15th. I'm guessing something in that range. And that will be the first step.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is 16, 165716 yeah. Thank you. Thank you.

[R12056-13] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve seconded. And, further discussion. Seeing none. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Thank you. Citizens. Comments. Seeing none. I'll close. Citizens comments and superintendents report. All right.
TEXT> So I have, Item to present. Trying to get my all set. You okay? All right, so,  first the opening slide. These are from  right before Thanksgiving. As you can,  you might even recognize that turkey as a former. I won't even say who it is, but he was a student rep here before. He was a good in it works at over at Disney. They had a parade, the Macy's Day Parade.  There was also a contest writing contest winner who got delivered with their whole family  to buy fire truck to bluff, which was a  great way to start the day for them and the family and  wonderful things going along in the classroom. You see it teaching the lower right dressed up like a turkey, and the that student leader was  really excited talking about their  meal planning  project that they did where they created a budget real, real,  authentic experience. They were very proud of what they did for family.  In  every member of their group,  there were five student members who worked on the project. It was a great project. She was really fired up. These are from earlier  this morning  at Red River Boston Bruins CMS ribbon cutting event.  You can see blades. The Bruins mascot was out and about in the hallways it up with I think he in the upper left.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: He's in in the family consumer science or health class with the students. And it was a really good event. You can see, I think. But junior was in one

[R12056-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-12-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: project. She was really fired up. These are from earlier this morning at Red River Boston Bruins CMS ribbon cutting event. You can see blades. The Bruins mascot was out and about in the hallways it up with I think he in the upper left.
TEXT> He's in in the family consumer science or  health class with the students.  And it was a  really good event. You can see,  I think. But junior was in one of these. I, I was looking for him. I know  Bob Sweeney, executive director of the of the Bruins is in them as well.  Most importantly, you see the the students using all of the amazing equipment  that that that partnership created and,  and  the the folks from Red River in the Bruins foundation, they just spent so  much time and effort adapting to exactly what they were already doing in the middle school. It's just a wonderful  celebration of that. And the students were really excited to show it off  and answer all the questions of of everyone.  I  got in a selfie  and you see the gentleman.  He's,  Alex  Hill being interviewed,  a  steam teacher  downstairs, and,  and Bob Sweeney still looks like he could lace him up and  and get on the ice at a guy of 57 years old. This is  the other items that I have to work on. We have two. We sent out a survey for parent  community teacher  participants. For the Bluff Elementary.  Search in  for the Maple  search. Some folks did  call  in or email in  asking, you know,  for clarity on that. And those were two interim  positions  because of the resignations late in the year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we will start the search process over the next month or so. It's all our. In there. And, the ad will come out soon. We're going to we have

[R12056-17] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-12-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: themselves. We've been up and down with, with some days, but nothing that's stopping the education of our students. And I really want to thank the parents, staff and everyone for sticking to the protocols and and particularly the kids for, for, for just complying.
TEXT> And we're getting through it.  One day. Okay, one fine day, it'll be over. Okay. Hopefully so.  And then these are, these are just  some of the other  transmission. And this was to show the decline that it was over 200. But now it's down to 147. So  we also met  talking about sports just to update the board. And we really thank the board for giving us the administrative discretion.  We had a meeting,  Doug Beaupré  in Sean La Plante.  Doug surveyed all  and I only put our most recent.  Our contiguous closest communities up there. But he looked at about 20, showed us what we were doing. We had a Google meet on this earlier in the week and just confirmed where we would be. So we're basically masking everywhere indoors except on the courts themselves while kids are exerting themselves.  We are going to stay away from concessions, just congregation points and things like that. And,  and we're just, just moving forward so that that's where we are. So,  you can see the range of things  that that people are doing, but we're kind of in the middle of all of it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we, we know, it's easier to, to relax it than it is to reel it in later. So that's kind of our rule of thumb with, with those types

[R12056-35] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination) | 2021-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: So thank you.
TEXT> Okay. One more ahead. I just had some conversations with community members. And there was concerns about, when children are out on protocol that they're not receiving work at home and they don't feel like they're receiving at the elementary school level, at least  support when they're out. They haven't been getting packets to go over. And these were people that  individuals in the community that I found to be pretty reliable sources. And so it was  somebody, a parent, who would have sat down and done all the stuff with the kid and was shocked that there was very little support or,  preparation put into what they were going to be doing in.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Their home. Echo that due to the fact of the recent Covid outbreak at my house, we didn't have anything come home from middle school or high school. So it's

[R12056-38] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-12-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: parent also should contact the school with that. I think they do their their best to get that out. I haven't heard any of those complaints directly to me, but I could follow up on that if anyone wants to give us a call. So.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you for your comments.  Moving ahead.  I think Steve just explained that we won't be having a student rep report tonight. And,  onward to our discussion. Action items. Steve, do you want to talk about the secretary's first?
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Yep. I, I believe we've made some great headway with the secretary's negotiations. I believe we're we're very, very close to finalizing things here in the relatively near future.

[R12056-42] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-12-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Used to be the. Used to be the transportation.
TEXT> So there was a T in there was. We dropped.  What happened to the t cam c? So,  we have we have reached an agreement.  I've got to actually let them let Kevin know tonight that,  all the changes that are that we have agreed to, mutual changes  have been agreed to,  what we're going to do is get all of you a copy of that, to take a peek at,  that way we can vote on it and you can see exactly what what you're voting on at the next meeting that we have to,  ratify to to ratify. And they're the custodians are pushing us to, well, we've agreed, but they need a final confirmation from us that. Yep, this is exactly what we want. So I've got to let Kevin know that. And so we'll have that for the next meeting. And I'm assuming secretary students emails tomorrow. Both. Tentative agreement for secretaries and maintenance. Okay. You see any rebound from the list so we can discuss that  in probably a nonpublic. I'm thinking. Yeah. I don't remember if you do that now in public and then vote in public, it has to be voted in public. I think we'll we'll discuss it in nonpublic and then,  come back and vote in public. When we talk about the two contracts we've got. That's it for union negotiations. Right. Yeah. We have we have one other that's underway.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We're we're working with the paraprofessionals first, very first steps. Right. We've established ground rules. And we were supposed to meet and we didn't. So we've got the administrators still

[R12056-81] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Go ahead.
TEXT> I have a reminder to. So we were the,  the students  and staff really benefited. We had a piano donated  to Stevens High School from one of our teachers, Fred Hill from his family, and a beautiful piano that they're already using. And we just wanted to thank him for that donation.  I'm not even sure the valuation of it, probably, you know, several thousand dollars, but,  in again, just just great great  great teacher. Great great great. And so we're very appreciative.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so next meeting. Yeah. So do we need to meet again in in December.

[R12088-27] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-12-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: things like that. But, in our regular calls that that we have with particularly on Wednesday call, you can see that that chat that we have going with Veronica, Ronnie, as well as with doctor from and Doctor Shaw and Laurie Landry looking at numbers.
TEXT> We're still concerned, as everyone is, you know, with, with Omicron and these other  things that are happening. But,  it's, it's really great that it has not been significantly impacting our instruction and our absenteeism  of staff and things go on. So in that positive  vein, a few things,  just some shots from around the district  had the opportunity to see our theater group are practicing. I sat in for that of the Odd Couple play that they're doing. It was very hilarious.  And I just have a couple scenes from from that. We're also excited that we're going to have that  in,  as well as some of the concerts next week, and, and other things in sports is going on, and we are  and we're doing well by that. No significant impacts to Covid. So again, very positive.  The things that are going on the regular instruction and  just doing some of the slides from the ribbon cutting that happened  recently,  at the middle school, students are excited and it  scenes from around the elementary schools and up from from unity of group instruction.  You know,  masks  in spots, but but  it just just going very, very well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, and that's all I had. Just, just, we have a holiday concerts. I know unity is doing a bunch of things as well, and they're going to be off

[R12115-17] Taylor Sullivan | Public commenter, Ward 1, departing district paraprofessional and coac | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: those in favor? Aye. Aye. Opposed? All right. Moving right along. We don't have any meeting minutes tonight due to some technical difficulties. And, that moves us to e citizens. Comments. If you could approach the podium and state your name and your word, please.
TEXT> Sullivan. Ward one. Man. You all know me. Pretty much.  So my name is Taylor Sullivan, and for the past 14 years, I've been a student, a staff member, and a coach for the district.  Many of you know, I'm leaving Friday to Dillon to be doing better things within the district.  Outside of the district.  And part of the reason why I'm leaving is because of the way that I feel the district staff are treated by  the school board and by some of the district staff administrators. I feel that paraprofessionals just did a pat on the back saying good job, and then we never hear from anybody again. A lot of us go through things throughout the school day that we don't, that people that don't often know. We get the spit, we get the drama, we get the stuff that the that the teachers don't have to deal with. The pay in this district does not seem to equal out to the increase in rent, food and life necessities. The pay is not enough for the economy that we live in.  We also have unpaid summers. We also have 32 hour work weeks and we just need something that can better was. So I would like to ask you to rethink your choices on supporting your staff and your district. They deserve better pay that can lead to more affordable lives. That's all.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you. Tyler. Other citizens. You naming your word, please?

[R12115-20] Sean Morin | Public commenter, CMS boys basketball coach and parent (ASR 'Sean Mori | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: Okay.
TEXT> My name is Sean Morin, and I am currently the CMS boys basketball coach. And I'm coming forward today because I have concerns regarding the,  I was currently shut down. The program was shut down because they called  a cluster to the team in. What I'm trying to bring to the attention is it doesn't seem like there's any consistency on how they come up with a cluster. A cluster to me is, from what I've read, is in the CDC is from one event. And  we were we had three kids that were considered clusters and they had no there's no association with each other. So one had a parent that was a  Covid positive that had nothing to do with anybody. And he got it. Like two weeks ago another parent got it and the child was considered negative. And he still was considered a Covid positive. And then a third child did get it. And I'm not sure where nobody else in our program has it, so we're not sure. But because of that our  program was shut down, considered a cluster, and it doesn't seem like there's any consistency. And when I asked  Miss Veronica where the three are related, it just, well, they all play for your program, so automatically you're shut down.
NEXT> Sean Morin: So I just want clarification for whether it be my team, another team, or even in spring sports teams. Where is there going to be? You know what I mean.

[R12115-21] Sean Morin | Public commenter, CMS boys basketball coach and parent (ASR 'Sean Mori | 2022-01-05
PREV> Sean Morin: But because of that our program was shut down, considered a cluster, and it doesn't seem like there's any consistency. And when I asked Miss Veronica where the three are related, it just, well, they all play for your program, so automatically you're shut down.
TEXT> So I just want clarification for whether it be my team, another team, or even in spring sports teams. Where  is there going to be? You know what I mean. It's got to be some sort of clarification in where it lies, you know, and that's that's my frustration is we could be a week from now or a month from now, and it could fall into that cluster where it actually could be. But these three are unrelated. And nobody obviously did their homework and yet at the same time were shut down. So that's that's my frustration right now  is nobody's really given an answer, just that they all play for your team. And one kid could go on vacation in California, one in Florida and one in Maine. And because they play on your team, you're considered a cluster. So I just like clarification on that and going forward for any of the sports, including, you know, even spring sports, because there's nothing it just seems like it just pulled out of the air  and, and  picked this team out specifically.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[R12115-25] Mary Burke | Public commenter, Ward 2 (parent of a CMS basketball player) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other citizens.
TEXT> I emailed the board last night because my child plays on that team.  And I was unsure if I could make the meeting.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Could you still tell us your name, then?

[R12115-123] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Second. Mike patron, second, further discussion. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed?
TEXT> And the fourth and final negotiation that we had was with the Claremont Administrators Association, which are our principles, our assistant principals, which are not called assistant principals.  Student services. Thank you.  Athletic director,  director of the tech center. And I think that's it. The agreement was for a three year agreement.  Salary grid increase of 3% in each year. Fiscal 23, four and five.  We also have provided in here sole discretion to the superintendent to increase the salary, the calculated salary by up to $5,000 to respond to market conditions. The financial impact from this, from this modification and the grid and modification in the  discretionary amount is 48,766. In fiscal 23, 50,002, 29 and 24, and 51,736 and 25, and to pay a $250 disaster relief stipend as we had in the others. And again, this comes from our CARES three money. This is not out of the local funds. Financial impact 4825 in each of the years. So the total financial impact of this negotiation is 53, five, 92, in 23, 55, 055 and 24 and 51,007 36. In fiscal 25.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So just one, one clarification I would make under number two, sole discretion to the superintendent by up to 5000. That is for building level administrators. That's for principals. That's

[R12115-142] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents contract summari | 2022-01-05
PREV> Richard Seaman: number of turnovers that happened to affect bluff, and those that are replacing those that left are at a lower cost, and those that came in also were at a lower health insurance. Now it happens to go that way, could go the other direction.
TEXT> But that's the primary reason for bluff on Maple. What we're looking at there is there really wasn't a lot of change in in the staffing and the makeup on Maple, the 75,000 is really just contractual increases for teachers and others, as well as the increase on health insurance. Disney  is up about 200 zero zero $0. There was additional 1 or 2 positions that were put in there this year geographically, because of the number of students that we had in the building and looking to retain those going next year. Again, this is geographic. So if those third graders go from Disney over to Maple, the teacher would move, would move with them. But the way we're we're currently,  modeling it out, Claremont Middle School is up by about $255,000. Most of that is contractual. The other part in there is there is an increase in out of district anticipation for Claremont Middle School students of $127,000. So the lion's share of that increase is what we're anticipating on out of district placements. The high school is down by 450 400 $0.  The lion's share of that, actually, almost all of it is related to out of district placement at high school level is down by 610,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Part of that 610 is then chewed back up with contractual increases, health increases, etc. but if you remember, last year we saw a pretty dramatic increase. Ben can certainly

