[8380-107] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (split cluster; completes her question b | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: shared information, but I don't know so I can't answer. But if you would like, I will certainly look into it and we can get back to you if someone will just write it down. Because if I can't work this, I can't remember that.
TEXT> And unable to participate. What's stopping those children?
NEXT> Lisa Draper: Their parents might not have given them consent. So it is. Remember, it's voluntary and it requires parental consent. So if I don't want my, student to be asked questions

[8380-112] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Is there.
TEXT> That's pretty good. By the way, three. Quarters. Of your students doing anything I think is really pretty good. So that's pretty good.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Approximately.

[8380-116] Lisa Draper | Presenter, Youth Risk Behavior Study Group; TLC Family Resource Center | 2016-05-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: I think we're around 120 right now. We've had what I would consider a surge of homeschoolers this year. I can get the exact numbers for the next meeting if you'd.
TEXT> Like, and then you'd want to narrow that to the students in the age range and grade range.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yes. Because that's that's homeschoolers K 12, right. In our.

[8380-156] Dennis McNichol | Youth Risk Behavior Study Group member, regional public health (uncert | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: What would happen cross purposes.
TEXT> You know, a ninth grade class for example, would take the  data the  the test at two years later they would take it in as juniors. But there would also be additional sophomores and freshmen that would be taking it when that ninth grade class was 11th grade. So so you know, the so where an increase could happen potentially is from not only that class  but also additional youth answering those questions.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: I understand that when I was looking the breakup that we had, I'm going to use ninth grade, say 13% said they had sexual, that they were sexually active before

[8380-180] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: in Sullivan County last year. So we're still struggling. We would like it to be as low as the rest of the state. And that involves a lot of different things. So education is certainly a piece. There are a lot of others as well.
TEXT> If I may. I just want to let the board know. Back in January, I received a call from the state complimenting the Claremont School District for developing and having this committee because in truth, the data is difficult. But if you're honest with the data and you compare what the data says over time to our investment in curriculum, our investment in providing students access to age appropriate, great, appropriate information, the objective is to use the data not to characterize children or families, but rather are we meeting the needs of our students based on their behavior, based on their choices? The state indicated very clearly this is not the norm. Most districts don't go into this because the data is unpleasant, but it's our obligation, we feel, to go into this difficult area and to be transparent and candid with the community, not to characterize, not to blame or shame, but to say, are we meeting the needs? Or ask, are we meeting the needs of our students with our curriculum, with our investment in health education from K  to 12? And that's,  I'm proud to say, has been the the real goal of this effort. And we're just starting to scratch the surface. We have many other topics.
NEXT> Lisa Draper: We have five. More categories to go.

[8380-182] Dennis McNichol | Youth Risk Behavior Study Group member, regional public health (uncert | 2016-05-04
PREV> Lisa Draper: We have five. More categories to go.
TEXT> I also just want to, comment on middle. Middleton just said  I have the great fortune to work with the other districts in our region, and by far Middleton  and the Claremont School Board School District. Excuse me, is taking the most proactive approach. They're not hiding from it. They they are looking to change, the unhealthy behaviors and and dangerous situations that the youth could are in or and confine themselves in. So I, I look forward to meeting with the wire BS group, a wonderful group of caring individuals across across the spectrum, and I am deeply appreciative of Middleton's effort to improving the two, proving the school, school and the community as well. And it is it is it is very rare. So I do want to just take this opportunity to commend Middleton for his efforts..
NEXT> Lisa Draper: And thank you all, because you've given us a lot of your time and I know it can get late here.

[8380-187] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Public.
TEXT> If I may respond to that. If you look at the Youth Behavior Study Committee, we are not a closed shop. We are not just school district employees or staff. We have invited parents, we've invited the community, TLC and others. So that's really and so the the expectation is that this isn't going to be a silo of school district initiatives, but rather it's going to be the community working in a collaborative way because it is the community's challenge. And the data to me, indicates students need some additional information so they can make informed decisions.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8380-191] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: closed shop. We we we need the community to be a part of this effort. And any president who's invested a staff member resident doesn't even have a child in our school district. If they're invested in being a part of this. We welcome it.
TEXT> And I  did. And I appreciate that that that information, I was only and I think just speaking with this I would like I, I, I understand I've kind of learned that the city council was busy that they had a meeting, this evening. I know that these meetings are school board meetings regarding the schools.  I at the same time, I, I, I think would be kind of a kind of a good kind of, gesture on our part to, to be I to be contacting, inviting the city council to attend the public presentation, even if it's a school board meeting as well as, not, we have a lot of not not we have a lot of groups, and individuals already working with, youth and families in the city. I guess I know that I know that maybe it's more  kind of more symbolic, but  I just look at I mean, it seems like these presentations, this these studies, presentations are important, very important. And I think that we have to start going forward as a coalition. And not even  the not getting too caught up into thinking, okay, we're you know, we're going to deal with our school partner, you're going to deal with this part. And I feel like that we all need to be on the same page. So, you know, I, I contacted some say council members say they were not aware of the meeting.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: They wouldn't have been able to make it anyway. But it's I think that if we're talking the two different partners talking about trying to kind of have meetings, I

[8380-193] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: kind of trying to kind of come together for these things just it seems like, you know, I'd like to like that, you know, as a district, we take what kind of maybe take some of the initiative and bite them and bite other people.
TEXT> Well, and, you know, just to be fair, that this is this is  sort of for our, our benefit. It's a survey of our students. We do have a we are planning on having a joint meeting, and I'm sure that these groups would be happy to come and present to the joint the joint meeting at that time and, and help include them. So, yeah.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Can I.

[8380-205] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: We'll come back to that. Okay. And we'll move on to Stephen's High. Scheduled presentations.
TEXT> Good evening. There is a. There's a two sided piece of two sided article written by Patrick Grady in the Valley News that talks about tonight's meeting  and the topic tonight.  The presentation is going to be two sided, if you will. I'm going to make a brief presentation about the evolution of this change. I'm very much respect our students who who spoke in favor or opposed to it. This is not about, anything other than what the information we have gathered over time. And tonight's presentation is going to be a part of that. But before I begin, I want to talk about three dates. The first date is June 6th, 2011. In this very room, when I was one of four candidates for the superintendency of South Six, and I was asked a question by a gentleman in the back and he said, what do you what do you think about the kneecap and and how do you use data? And I said to him that you can use data to blame someone, to rush judgment, to point fingers, make excuses, or you can use data to take a step back and ask, what is this really mean? And if there's a pattern of data,  you have to ask yourself, is this the kind of data we like to see?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Are we doing what we think is in the best interest of students? And so June 6th, 2011, and the result of that, one of the writers in one of

[8380-206] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: judgment, to point fingers, make excuses, or you can use data to take a step back and ask, what is this really mean? And if there's a pattern of data, you have to ask yourself, is this the kind of data we like to see?
TEXT> Are we doing what we think is in the best interest of students? And so June 6th, 2011, and the result of that, one of the writers in one of our local papers called me the data Guy. And I remember that reading that in Massachusetts. And, and I just consider myself to be someone who,  is not a numbers guy, but is constantly asking, how are things going and not rushing because they see a  dip or a rise, but. Rather in gathering this information over time, because you can talk to one person  and say, oh, this is terrible. But if you talk to one person and many people, over time you start to get a feel and then you look at other sources as well. February 2013. The school board met because the sugar River Education Association had had  had  voted on what they call a vote of no confidence against me. And the reason I bring up that scar tissue is that I was going down some paths and dealing with some challenging issues, and they took exception to that. And I'm not defensive about it. It is their right to do that. But the school board had a special meeting, and talked about it. I know the mayor can have some parents spoke about it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And the good news is that I'm still standing here and it wasn't me against them. It's not me against them because I they are my colleagues. But they had

[8380-207] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: some challenging issues, and they took exception to that. And I'm not defensive about it. It is their right to do that. But the school board had a special meeting, and talked about it. I know the mayor can have some parents spoke about it.
TEXT> And the good news is that I'm still standing here and it wasn't me against them. It's not me against them because I they are my colleagues. But they had some concerns about how I was doing business, and some of the things I was doing had not been done before. With all due respect to my predecessor and that, would that represent a change? And last but not least, April 11th and April 11th, there was a press release by the sugar River Education Association, and it had to do with the recent arbitration. And I'm going to talk about that tonight, because that presentation, which is their right to do. But I'm interested in providing the other side of the coin. Now, this isn't going to be a debate, but I want you to know the especially the community, the other side of the coin with with this issue regarding where we are. So the purpose of tonight's presentation is to discuss some history, the evolution. To talk about student achievement data.  And then Pat Barry is going to pick up and talk a little bit about the A B schedule. And we heard from our, our students tonight very important information. And I'm sure Pat's going to be speaking to that not to point counterpoint but rather to discuss  where we are and what our plans are for next year.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Talking about a schedule for a school board should be an ongoing issue because of all the things the school board does, student achievement and improving it is your number

[8380-208] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: about the A B schedule. And we heard from our, our students tonight very important information. And I'm sure Pat's going to be speaking to that not to point counterpoint but rather to discuss where we are and what our plans are for next year.
TEXT> Talking about a schedule for a school board  should be an ongoing issue because of all the things the school board does, student achievement and improving it is your number one priority because this district exists not for adults like me, but for students, and that the question always should be, how is what we're doing benefiting students? Not what I want as an adult to do? So let's talk about the evolution. I want to first talk about Frank Sprague because he's number one on the discussion. It was 2011. Franklin, assistant principal. I had just broken ground here. I've been here a month. And Frank, in your office, we had a conversation. You said, you know, Middleton, I've been looking at the knee cap results, and I think I've identified something. We're not pleased with the knee cap result, but when I looked into the reading portion of that, when I looked into the English language arts portion of that, I think I've identified a pattern. We have problems with writing. We have problems with writing. Now, that was one person's view. But I remember another view was a former student, top of her class.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I think it was a class of 2008, 2007. She went to Saint Paul's as a as a junior, very bright girl, received a lot of awards. She said to

[8380-211] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: where they had not been formally observed. And you observe to identify if or the any areas that the teacher or staff member needs support. You don't observe to measure and grade you supervise. That is administrators responsibility. Academic expectations. There were concerns about that.
TEXT> We don't know if our students are receiving what they need. Now. Someone will say, how can you say that? I work hard, I've been a teacher here for years. You're talking about me. I'm not talking about a person. I'm talking about a perception. I'm talking about what people have been saying to me and what people have repeatedly expressed. The Claremont community. This was clear the community values their schools, but they were dissatisfied with the lack of results. They expect more academic progress for their investment. I didn't know what that meant because this was the summer of 2011 and I reported this in the fall, but this allowed me and the board to at least explain what I've learned in my entry plan. And now let's start setting some courses. And we did that slowly in the summer of 2012. As this evolution continues, Frank Sprague is hired as a new high school principal, but I kept on hearing a year into my tenure. There's concerns about lack of results, lack of results, and I didn't understand what that meant. I know what what it means, but can you give me some data? So I asked a staff member, can you give me? I'm hearing about lack of results. Can you give me information? And this is what I learned and I've showed this to you before.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The class of 20 1112, my first year. This is. These are the percent of students who were failing. Now, am I using this? Am I using this to judge,

[8380-213] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: would talk about her portfolios of students. One of her colleagues said. The saddest thing is the number of kids who will not get to work with her. She was not only dedicated, but she wouldn't accept mediocrity. And she showed me portfolios of students.
TEXT> And their writing and what the writing looked like in the early part of the course and what the writing was looking like afterwards. She was very focused, would never give up on a student. And but one thing she said was very clear. She said it's critical that we established district wide agreement involving grade level academic expectations. As you also said, students need to write more. Which brought me back to Frank Sprague in August of 2011. Okay, expectations, teachers expectations are critical. She had the expectation. You're not writing well, but my expectation is you will learn to write well and there will be no excuses. And the teachers beliefs of students, if they do not have that expectation that transfers into the students success as well. So right from the get go, it's expectations. And at the very powerful but hidden mindset that has a major impact on our students. In 20 1314. As I began my my third year, we started to identify and did essential skills, non-negotiable skills in math and in writing. For K to five, we need to know what do we need to clarify?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: What do we want students know and be able to do? And in the perfect world, those students grade after grade will acquire that. And part of that was writing

[8380-215] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: weren't taking access to this. The game plan was 1314 were going to phase it in and 1415 full implementation. But in May and this, this started to have me a little more aware about how things are done or how things have been done.
TEXT> The group of teachers got together and they voted and they voted by majority not to do it. And so it fell apart. And I'm saying to myself, wait a minute, we have a student need. We have specific issues, and a group of employees are going to say, no, we're not going to do it. No, I'm not being disrespectful. But that's sort of a mindset. Wait a minute.  The change is based on student need, but we're voting not to do it. I think it was a if I recall, Frank was surprised at that, too. Pat Barry is hired in the spring of 2014. And in August, the first thing I said that Pat was simply this. Pat, I'd like you to answer a question. Will you please ask colleagues of yours to volunteer to serve on a scheduling committee and just answer this question? Is the current schedule? The 4x4 the block schedule meeting the needs of all students.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And I said to her, I am not telling you I have an expected outcome. And so she started the process. And this is what the committee found. These are

[8380-218] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: be in this position because I have to be forthcoming and honest with this information. Junior year, harder than senior year need to be reversed. Ask students to do more. Year long courses are good for retention. This comes from students. 2003 13 years ago.
TEXT> So the one thing that we haven't done that I want to start doing in June, actually it's going to be made this month, is to get a more wide cross-section of students because most of the students  are your your high academic achievers, if you will. And I want to get a more cross-section of students. But there has been a pattern. So Padbury, working with her Stevens High School Scheduling Committee, made school board presentations, had frequent discussions with the high school staff. Pat was send out on Sunday night. Monday minutes. I think they're called Monday notes and it would be ongoing summary of what's going on. And it included a great deal about the scheduling. And we even had the board was concerned, you know, this is a major change. What does the community think? So we had public forums. They weren't well attended. They were publicized televised, but we did not get negative kickback. So in 20 1415 the ball was rolling and we feel we're on the right track knowing that nothing is going to be perfect and it's going to be several years, 2 or 3, four years to really fine tune it.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But in February, the union filed agreements and said, you can't do this. And when I say union, I want to make something very clear to you. I'm not talking

[8380-226] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: about 1972. Do you know the law that was that changed opportunities for females? You know what it's called? Quiz 121 big pardon. Thank you sir. Its title nine. In the 1950s, girls in basketball had to run half court. They didn't have the strength.
TEXT> They had to be. Had to take it easy because they didn't have the ability. That was a mindset.  And female student athletes in the 40s and 50s had minimal, minimal opportunities. Look at that picture. Those ladies don't have the strength to play more than half court. Well, we've learned a lot, haven't we? Mary and Love is one of them. One example.  Watch that young lady on the field hockey field. And I can tell you right now, Marian Lovett doesn't have to be coddled in title nine has allowed her to be herself. And look what has done to high school participation of females since title nine. So. This is where we are heading. District wide agreement involving academic expectations. I will tell you that Kathleen Bonnell has been working with K through 12 teachers, teachers meeting in groups, middle school, high school, faculty and content areas meeting to identify and clarify district wide expectations so the elementary is attached to the middle and the middle to the high. And they're not disconnected.  They may be in the same town, but it doesn't mean they are connected. And so the goal is that over time, our students will be much more prepared as they pass through. And by the way, when you saw the Stephens High School data of 20 1112, don't misunderstand me, that's not a 9 to 12 issue.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: That's a K through 12 issue. So I want to publicly make a reminder to that. But it's real stuff and we're moving to correct that. So Pat Barrie is

[8380-229] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-05-04
PREV> Brian Rapp: Please if we could the robotics club is here. There was a mix up in time. Perfect. Could we take a little bit of a break, let them do their thing, and then we'll come back so we can have a full, robust discussion. Perfect.
TEXT> But just to wrap up, there's a reason for this recommended change. And this is what I presented. There'll be arguments for and against. But this is not about the merits of block scheduling. This is not about it's good or it's bad. It's about what our students over time are telling us. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Communication with. That's okay. We would like. Not necessarily.

[8380-232] Pam |  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Pam: at different angles and the ROV has to go through and come back. It is on a tether with a control box. The second challenge changes each year. This year that challenge was titled orbs. It is a cluster of towers. Who's got the tower?
TEXT> The cluster of towers of varying diameters which have different orbs or falls, wiffle balls of varying sizes, and golf balls, and their sea perch. There, Rove has to activate the levers,  which will release balls.  They have to capture the balls, carry the balls to a designated area, and release the balls. Both of those challenges are timed. A third component for the national competition is an electronic poster that actually is being sent down tomorrow night. It has to be in by midnight on Friday. Judges will judge that prior to our arriving,  they have no visual of of the various teams. And in that poster, the students communicate to the judges what they have learned social skills, technical skills and knowledge of physics, mathematics and so forth. And we have we have a wonderful other mentor, Jeff, over here, who has helped a great deal with the physics and mathematics portion. So there's Jeff and his C perch. Sure. So I will turn this over to the students. Now, the high school team who will soon be in Baton Rouge. Do you.
NEXT> Allison: Need help?

[8380-258] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Allison: Thank you.
TEXT> Just chose to go that here you are in this century, in this time and, you know, putting yourselves together. And here we are looking at the fact that, you know, a brilliant group of young people to put their minds together to say, well, we can study after school to watch this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Like.

[8380-267] Pam |  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Allison: Thank you.
TEXT> All for your time and for maneuvering your schedule. And if any of you are interested in coming down and seeing the team practice, we are at the pool tomorrow. Our drive times will be from 3:00 to 430. The kids will come over after school, but we have to get all the apparatus set up in the water. So you wouldn't see much before 3:00. We will be there every Monday and Thursday for. Well, we have five more sessions. So this week and then for the following two weeks. We will be there. Drive time would be from 3 to 430. We have to be out by five for swim lessons, so we kind of have to work around. But the community center has been very gracious and giving us a piece of the pool. And we're very, very grateful for that because it would be very hard to practice without the pool. So thank you again.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well done. Thank you. No such luck. So just in time. Oh.

[8380-282] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: it is not it's showing that we have a lot of room for improvement in these areas. Number of students enrolled in AP classes. Again, we have those numbers have increased significantly since 1314. But 178 in Bedford. Yeah, they've got a population of 1400s.
TEXT> We have to take that into account 12.6%. So when you're looking even at the percentages, we're down at 11.1. So these were all factors that the committee looked at to say what's going on with us and comparing it to our sister, some of our sister schools. When you look at the second graduation rates and post-graduation plans, again, compared to these other eight schools, our graduation rate 69.3  lowest in that column, only 36% identified as going on to four year colleges and only 20 little over 20% entering less than four year institutions. Early exit and dropout rates. On the third page,  we are second to the bottom. Effing is at the bottom of this particular list. But, when we look at annual early exit percentage, this is where the numbers are bad. When they're high and we're at 2.21%, meaning that these are our students, nine dropouts, which is the highest number compared to the other eight. So just to show you some data, and I thought it was valuable for you to actually see the schedules themselves. And I'm not going to take your time going over these, but some of them are true a B schedules. Some you'll see, for instance, looking at because I just want you to know what that means when you look at Bedford High School and you'll see handwritten in there, they have red and silver days.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's their way of saying an a, B day. They just call them red and silver days. And Adnoc has a true a B as well. And Sanborn is not.

[8380-284] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: be done better, what could we tweak, where could we go from here? Still were limited because of the way we're connected with the tech center. So, you know, that's kind of the overall and this was the compelling data that led us to say.
TEXT> And, and do these reflect just the schedule? No, no, no set of data is is due to one indicator. There's a lot of things that go into these numbers, including, you know, our homeless and our poverty rates. But having said that, and when we talk about Linda and talking about no excuses, I truly believe that any student given the right environment and the right supports is capable of achieving anything. And I do not believe that our students are any less capable than the students of Campbell. Bow, Plymouth, Epping, Monadnock. Sanborn cannot are Bedford in adapting to an A B schedule. If they can do it, our kids can do it. Now, having said that, you heard what Nate said and you heard what Angelica has said, and especially this senior and junior class, they're caught in the in-betweens there, that those two classes that we knew were going to get crunched in this change over. And Marian can speak to this as well. And we've had a conversation about that. We also knew as a committee, and it was very well articulated, that there is no schedule that can be assessed after one year, certainly not after six months, that 3 to 4 years of seeing one complete high school cohort go through is really what's needed to be able to longitudinally say, this is what we can say is affected by schedule.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: This is what we can say is affected by teaching staff, by poverty, by this, by that. So it's very early in the game. It's very premature to say what

[8380-289] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I agree with. You mentioned the Owls program, but it didn't affect your scheduling. However, I also heard the tech center affected your scheduling, so I'm a little confused because aren't they all programs of the school system? Correct? I mean, the program.
TEXT> It's not a tech program. It's in here. It's in this building. But owls is actually, an all in a sense, it's part of our alternative program. So Owl students come for two sessions, one session, either a morning session or an afternoon session. They are juniors or seniors. They are students who are in that program because traditional instruction at Stevens hasn't worked for them. It hasn't been successful for them.  And so they do Odyssey where learning supervised with staff here. And then they have a work study portion to their day. So they're here from 730 to 10. And then they go off and do their work study. And then the afternoon session comes in from 11 to 130. And so it's a separate alternative learning program for 30 of our students that just happens to be physically housed in this building, but doesn't run the schedule that the the tech center does, like HVAC and plumbing, carpentry, you know.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Still considered students of the school. Yes. Graduating with the school during the school year.

[8380-321] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: Good question.
TEXT> Marian and I, that's an interesting component to look at for these other schools to see if they do. And it doesn't mean that students at Stevens can't take a college class, because, I mean, there's still the Saturday classes, there's the evening classes, but in the A, B schedule, those during the school day offerings at River Valley are now reduced for students on an A B schedule. So she's very right about that. But that's a very good point, because those kids who were coming in ready to take algebra two, often ran out of math classes to take by end of junior year. And then they sat there senior year with no math left to take. So that was another issue we was trying to address.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[8380-326] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: years, my reading of that is that that four year requirement can be met in blocks. It is not for years, but if I'm wrong, I'd like to see that. But my reading of that standard is it is not four years, it's four credits.
TEXT> Now the word credit is nowhere used in the RSA. It says yes, students need to take math in every year of their high school. That's how.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I read it. Going back to Linda, someone that was near and dear to me, she to finish her comments on that, she felt that the a b was an

[8380-350] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: So in our Ryan, I just.
TEXT> Semantic thing that I think is really important, especially for the public and parents we talk about, we use the word block. And I think that's confusing. So block is when we're talking, you know what? We have a block right now we're in a block. There's 75 minute block classes on an A, B alternating day schedule versus  the 4x4 block. They're both block schedules. But we're we're talking often as if one was a block and one wasn't. So I think it's really important that if you're talking about that seven period, 45 minute or skinnies that run through your year of 45 minutes, those are skinnies. And then when you're looking at these larger blocks of instructional time, whether it's in a 4x4 or an A, B, they're all blocks. And I feel it's important to clarify that because the committee saw the benefits of maintaining block, because everything that we know about 21st century learning, which you saw with these kids on the robotics team, is that in order to get to critical thinking and the kinds of skills that these kids need in order to be successful in the 21st century, workplace is time.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: You need time for discussion and depth into the curriculum, and to have those periods of time where you're not just skimming, like I say, like a Jesus bug over

[8380-351] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: know about 21st century learning, which you saw with these kids on the robotics team, is that in order to get to critical thinking and the kinds of skills that these kids need in order to be successful in the 21st century, workplace is time.
TEXT> You need time for discussion and depth into the curriculum, and to have those periods of time where you're not just skimming, like I say, like a Jesus bug over your curriculum every day. By the time in a 45 minute block you get in, you take your attendance. Now you down to 40 minutes. By the time you settle in and you do an introductory activity, you're down to 30 minutes. There's not that time for that in-depth attack of the curriculum that we know is what's needed for these kids to get those kinds of skills. So I think it's really important to just semantically separate when we talk block versus the type of block. And that's really the distinction 4x4 versus a B.
NEXT> Unidentified: So Patrick, first of all.

[8380-356] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Just to, a couple of questions. One, just something that I guess for into, I guess Nate being able to take certain classes. This is so much of the block schedule, but can they get an override to a class if they if need be.
TEXT> Right. So thank you for asking that question. And that's what I'm going to take a forensic look at Nate schedule next year. Because first of all when the schedule was built, first time out of the gate, 88% of the students got what they asked for in their course selection forms. Charlie Gesner probably has that up to about 91% now as he is tweaking and as students start to shift as their  guidance counselors now say, oh, these seven kids didn't get that course and I have to find another course for them to take. And that fills up. Not to mention your Add drop period, which will be a week long next year. And in those first six days, students will decide this classes. And for me, or I need to not be in a general, I want to be in a P, or there's that shift that will happen. Seats will open up in classes here, seats will get filled in classes there.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So really the opportunity to tweak one schedule extends all the way into mid-September of next year. So there's there's other opportunities to ensure that Nate, first of all gets

[8380-365] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (cluster also carries robotics leader P | 2016-05-04
PREV> Patrick Adrian: one of the differences that we, that we. So I guess I get confused so that a lot of schools that really they only need to be taking was it a six credits or six classes classes through the year. But we kind of require.
TEXT> So the state requires 20 credits state. The state minimum requirement is 20 credits to graduate from a a public high school. We have said at Stevens that we feel the minimum is 23 credits, and it needs to be made up of these requirements. We then said, for those students who are knowing to be college bound, want to align with New Hampshire State Scholars requirements, we feel that the diploma with distinction is a 27 credit. And that's the other benefit in in I. Again, mathematically, if a student, a high flying student, were able and willing to take eight classes every one of their four years, there's a 36 credit capability in four years, leaving plenty of breathing room for failure or not taking eight classes. It it makes it easier, much easier to attain those 27 credits and meet all those four years of those four disciplines, three years of a language which many top colleges are now requiring, get those in and still have adequate room for electives, which we know are extremely important for our students to make sure they have access to the arts and music and the theater. So that's the other piece. You can't accomplish that number of credits on a seven period day.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[8380-388] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. So you're almost to the end of your first year with an A, B and you've asked I, I just want to make sure I'm right. I'm hearing that you still have other courses though. It's like you've kind of balanced out the kids. There's that are kind of finishing up with an older schedule kind of thing, or so that I understand that the transition, you couldn't just go in and go, boom, everybody has to do this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[8380-394] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Of time.
TEXT> And then also show positive influence under it. The fact that those those young people stood there tonight and said we decided to learn how to Skype together was the most impressive thing  because they're using the technology that's there. They're not saying we can't do it, it's too much.  They're saying, well, it is a lot, but let's figure out a way to do it, which is the mindset that I'd like to think that every single person could come out of school with. So my.
NEXT> Unidentified: My.

[8380-443] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Chris Irish: And then we have that conversation with the teachers, the instructors, the students, the board, whoever. And we have the data say it's working. It's not working. But to stop it now, just because we don't like it and we want to resist change it.
TEXT> We have an opinion one way or the other. That to me is shortsighted as all get it. We just don't know what we don't know. We we suffer from compound ignorance right now. We don't want we don't know what we don't know. And we won't know until we collect the data. So anything short of getting through that process and having real data, whether or not it's helping or hurting our kids, I don't think we're doing our.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Jobs, although I would I would disagree. About some data. I think it was it's pretty apparent that the 4x4 was not working.

[8380-449] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Chris Irish: You know.
TEXT> That was failing our students miserably. Someone doing fine. Some were selling, but I think too many were being left behind. And I think that's what the data showed.
NEXT> Chris Irish: Going backwards will definitely send us backwards. There's no doubt in my mind about.

[8380-472] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - addressed as 'Brant' [849]  | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> But if we had an expectation of our students and student accountability, there should have been 39% of that 11th grade class should have been repeating 11th grade English. And I think that that's something that needs to be addressed, that a schedule change isn't going to fix, that. We need to change the culture and the perception that we're measuring that that failure, that a student failure is somehow a failure of the teacher. We have to get kind of past that and get teachers. All right, with the idea that 39% of their class is going to fail, and they should not be worried about their job. If they can show that 39 that they did their department, because I think that's the bigger problem that we're facing right now. It's not this schedule bit the schedule. I think it's in place. I don't know where we've decided it's going to stay in place. It's been a nice discussion we've had, but at the end of the day, I don't think it's going to change. It's a discussion item and if we're really want to make some strides forward, looking at what was presented by doctor when we need to really look at this idea of grade level, grade level academic expectation and hold the students to it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Absolutely. I couldn't agree more.

[8380-480] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Say now, so let's just.
TEXT> But whatever that is, whatever the test is, we shouldn't be comparing it. Then make an assumption that if the majority of the kids do bad on SATs, even if that's a bad one, because that counts. But any test that's driven by, well, no, but any test that's driven by the state, I'm not going to compare to our teachers and their abilities to teach, because  unless that test has some impact on that kids education and whether they pass or fail and get out of high school, they are not going to care. And I'm not going to hold my teachers accountable to a kneecap or a map or whatever they want to call it, because they are absolutely irrelevant. And it's strictly a financial mechanism for the state to withhold money. Right. That's my speech.
NEXT> Unidentified: Can I please.

[8380-566] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-05-04
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: that there is not a teacher I would willing to be to put money on it, that if they, a parent, wanted to talk to them, that they would not stay till 430, 5:00, or whatever they needed to do to speak with that parent.
TEXT> I agree with that. And I better go from a from another experience side of mine. I wholeheartedly support administration is proposing because that's what I pay them to do. I'm not an educator. I'm sure not qualified to digest this and figure it all out. Solve the world's problem. That's a but I will say this about parent teacher conferences. The ones that I went to and we went to every single one of them for 12 years with Ashley to a day that we went. There was never more than maybe three parents that were in those conferences, and it was usually the kids doing the best in the class. So my my opinion of parent teacher conferences, I applaud the effort. I think we need to keep throwing it out there. But to me, the bone we're trying to throw it isn't to the teachers, it's to the parents. I don't know what it takes to get parents involved in the kids education, but but I agree with Becky. I don't think for one second there's a teacher that would ever turn down the parents request.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Do you really think a teacher was a full day of instruction, or how would you prepare the conference? And if we say, okay, we're going to give the union

[8380-571] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (cluster also absorbs some crosstalk fra | 2016-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Wondering.
TEXT> Conferences are very important and I think that we should be all working together to get the community,  families, parents more involved in them. And and I'd like to see it happen someday where we're bragging about how  the parent.  We have 100%. Henry.  You know, wouldn't it be great? So I, I, I, I want to support anything for the teachers to make it better, anything for the parents to make it better for the children.
NEXT> Unidentified: All in favor? Aye, aye.

[8407-12] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (calls to order and runs agenda and votes | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brent Ferland: As presented.
TEXT> Second. Just a couple of changes. Or one that I saw. Third page, first paragraph where it talks about the grant. I believe that was 25,000. About 2500. And that's that's all I've got. This one here. All in favor?  Aye. Opposed? Get our student representatives report. Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: For the grand march and prom. It was a beautiful event, and our students had a wonderful time with DJ Colin Egan providing the musical entertainment. Congratulations to Steven Bosnich,

[8407-13] Unidentified | Unidentified - Stevens High School student representative to the board | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: couple of changes. Or one that I saw. Third page, first paragraph where it talks about the grant. I believe that was 25,000. About 2500. And that's that's all I've got. This one here. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Get our student representatives report. Yes.
TEXT> For the grand march and prom. It was a beautiful event, and our students had a wonderful time with DJ Colin Egan providing the musical entertainment. Congratulations to Steven Bosnich,  Alison New,  Matt Page and Andrew Friend for their win on April 2nd at the Regional Robotic Competition and best of luck at the National Robotics Competition in Louisiana. This weekend, freshmen are taking maps test this week and juniors took the knee cap science text this week. Our students did a great job practicing and representing shows at the Seat Belt Challenge and Concord. On May 27th, guidance will be taking juniors to Keene State College for the NEA CAC  College Fair, where over 50 colleges and universities will be represented. Mr. Hardys for economic classes are working on their final project, which is a monthly budget project requiring students to find a job, determine taxes, health and dental assurance, pay rent, utilities, insurance, buy a car with insurance and host of other living expenses. Mr. Hardy's geography and new students are creating Community Atlas projects, in which a single pair of students identify a geography based community. Issue projects range from illegal dump sites to government subsidized housing, and from manufacture and service sector facilities to alcohol use throughout the nation. On May 7th, the band choir musical theater class competed in festivals in the park.
NEXT> Unidentified: The musical theater competed in the show choir category and took an excellent rating with a score of 88. This was the first time the musical students have ever competed

[8407-18] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (calls to order and runs agenda and votes | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. Any questions for our student representative? Thanks a lot.  Superintendent's report.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Thank you. Good evening. I'm going to be brief. We have quite an agenda tonight. Talking about our students, and talking about the as measured by our students achievement as

[8407-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Any questions for our student representative? Thanks a lot. Superintendent's report.
TEXT> Thank you. Good evening. I'm going to be brief. We have quite an agenda tonight. Talking about our students, and talking about the as measured by our students achievement as a result of our faculty's very hard work.  Today, I had the opportunity with Pat Berry and Kathleen and Cory LeClaire to sit down and have a light lunch with  our graduating seniors. Students who  volunteered were selected to participate  in a dialog that lasted approximately two hours. And the whole theme of this was.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: To.

[8407-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: been quite a bit of concern, especially Flint, Michigan, regarding the quality of water. And so, Mr. Saint-Pierre sent Stephen Holt, an email of attached a new report that was sent out by the New Hampshire Department of and EPA about lead in the water.
TEXT> This is a big issue around the country, and they are trying to educate everyone on the causes. Fortunately, we are ahead of the curve in Claremont. And he added the test results for our records that proves the Claremont schools have lead exposure well below levels that would require action. And he closes by saying your past upgrades and school renovations have eliminated the lead issues. So there's another. Another example of the community supporting the schools, supporting the renovation and  our upgrades with our schools, and how it benefits the quality of our water, as well as the wellness of our students. So I just wanted to share that publicly. And I think it's another example of  of the city of Claremont and the departments of the city of Claremont working hand in hand with the school district. We are partners and we do have the same objectives, really, as measured by students, as measured by residents, as measured by the community itself. And last, there is a two sided green sheet. Kathleen Bonnell invited Arcadia five faculty to meet in  elementary school yesterday afternoon.  And the whole purpose was to gather information and to, in essence, empower our faculty regarding this year and to help establish, areas that need attention to help establish our future priorities.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But if you look at both sides of this, this represents the work that has been going on in our elementary schools with the leadership of our principles, the hard

[8407-24] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: returns are diminishing if you try to impress with the long list. But in essence, it's not realistic or sustainable working with students in our faculty. So I just want to emphasize that the plans for next year continue the momentum our teachers have started.
TEXT> And I want to repeat, our teachers have started. We're moving in the direction we're moving because of our teachers dedication, commitment and professionalism. Remain focused on current curriculum development and instructional strategies. Protect time and focus from new or distracting initiatives that protecting our priorities. You know, a successful school district doesn't have a new initiative every other month may sound great if you're interested in public relations. If you're interested in education and student achievement, you focus with deep implementation, identifying the priorities and constantly monitoring our students success and how we respond to that success or lack of success. So I just wanted to brag a bit about our K to five teachers.  There's also many initiatives with our 6 to 8 teachers and 9 to 12 teachers. But tonight I because of yesterday's experience, and I had the opportunity to thank our colleagues for their hard work. I wanted to at least share with you and the community.  And my hope is in the future we'll have more opportunities where faculty, where administration and students will be part of school board meetings, because I have a lot to say, but I'm willing to bet that the community will listen more carefully to our students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? Good. We'll open up for citizens comments. Anybody for citizens comments? Move on to your discussion items Stevens High School

[8407-26] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Great. Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for the superintendent? Good. We'll open up for citizens comments. Anybody for citizens comments? Move on to your discussion items Stevens High School life skills program.
TEXT> I'm very pleased to welcome  our our our students as well as teachers to the podium.   I this is a classic example  of of bragging about our students and their accomplishments and having the community learn more about our students and our dedicated teachers. So welcome.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Thank you. And tonight we have a couple of students with us, as well as one of the teachers in the Life Skills program. So I'd like to introduce Ben

[8407-27] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat ... is going to b | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: very pleased to welcome our our our students as well as teachers to the podium. I this is a classic example of of bragging about our students and their accomplishments and having the community learn more about our students and our dedicated teachers. So welcome.
TEXT> Thank you. And tonight we have a couple of students with us, as well as one of the teachers in the Life Skills program. So I'd like to introduce Ben King and also Emily Ruth and their teacher Mike McCusker. And Mike can speak to you a little bit more about the life skills program, but we're nearing the first year of the program being in Stevens High School. And just for from my personal observation, it's been fantastic having them in the building. Our students have gotten so much from having these kids there all the time. And what I've seen is these guys and they can speak to it, but they've been able to just be involved in so many of the day to day activities at Stevens, and it's just been wonderful having them there all the time. So I'll let Mike speak to a little more of the details of the program. But and these are two of our best students, and they put on a mean lunch and a really awesome breakfast. So there you go.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And before.

[8407-32] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (calls to order and runs agenda and votes | 2016-05-18
PREV> Mike McCusker: I was not this is my first year with Stevens. Okay.
TEXT> So how about the students?
NEXT> Mike McCusker: They've been here their whole career.

[8407-39] Mike McCusker | Teacher, Stevens High School Life Skills program (introduced 'their te | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Great. Yes. Yeah.
TEXT> I think some of it's been to ease of having some of our students also be in general education classes. Okay. I think it's a little easier where they're in that in the high school building. You know, when they were here, I don't know how it worked, but I do know that it has been easier for that.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Be a better transition between classes.

[8407-41] Mike McCusker | Teacher, Stevens High School Life Skills program (introduced 'their te | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Be a better transition between classes.
TEXT> A lot easier. We've we've had some kids who are able to actually get out and navigate a loan to generalized classes. So that's been some good successes for those students. I know Emily his she's in parenting right now. Yeah. She takes the parenting class. Ben took Pete Ferland woodworking class the first semester. So, there's been a lot of good successes in those those terms.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Any other questions?

[8407-50] Mike McCusker | Teacher, Stevens High School Life Skills program (introduced 'their te | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: We mostly feed people.
TEXT> We feed people. So we do a, a weekly mail offering. We send an email out to staff in high school and saw,  the kids do all the research. They typically choose the meals with coaching. They look for recipes.  They make the shopping lists. We go shopping, they do the shopping.  Then it's all hands on deck for preparation and cooking the mail and then delivering. So it's been pretty successful. We feed about 15 people a week.  And we just we have a great time with it. It's also opened up  some opportunities to prepare items for the continuing ed when they're doing training.  This Friday we're cooking an extra 15 well, sandwiches, but doing an extra 15 meals for training in the PD center. So the kid's been working really hard. Every day we've got a group that goes and helps with garbage after lunch, which has helped with the maintenance staff some. So, I think it's been a very positive experience for the kids to be in the high school building.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's great. It's great to hear.

[8407-58] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Academic academic achievement goals. The progress reports.
TEXT> There are many ways of that. The community or others can measure a school district. And too often it's done by state mandated assessments that are publicized. But  I'm very interested and have invited and continuing from last year,  our administrative leaders and staff to talk about other measures and to talk about the achievement of our students and also some of the challenges of our students, which is not a bad thing to talk about if we have a plan to address that. I'm going to invite our our K to five administrators first.  I know that one has a has a student they need to attend to afterwards. So I'd like to welcome, Melissa Lewis and Dan Sherry and Mike Lansing, who is completing his first year as principal of Bluff Elementary School. So thank you and welcome.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good evening.

[8407-61] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: new reading program for them this year. And so again, getting used to something new, figuring out how best to use it, as well as what you're going to hear from Mr. Lansing in just a moment, the work that's occurred for our writing curriculum.
TEXT> So these teachers deserve an enormous amount of credit for taking on so much. At one time last year, we began with the academic achievement, a goal, a academic achievement, goals. And as you'll see that there we have three. So again thank you. Pretty ambitious in terms of looking at reading, writing and math all at once. And so these were the goals that we started with. And we recognized that within each of these goals, there's a lot of action items that have to occur for staff to feel successful and for students to show success. And so some of the things that I just mentioned to you in terms of program implementation were part of the action steps that we have begun and continue to work with. Other steps include refining our practices with some of those new curriculum programs, as well as the work you're going to hear about tonight in writing. So some incredibly lofty goals, but with great purpose and with great intent, because for for our kids, there's nothing that we won't do for them.  So Dan Cherry is going to talk to you a little bit about where we were last year. For those of you that weren't here to hear kind of what we did in the area of math with that fluency, great.
NEXT> Mike McCusker: So. We'll just.

[8407-63] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Mike McCusker: So. We'll just.
TEXT> Report what some of our big takeaways were from last year. First of all, addition to multiplication has been acquired by most of our students  more quickly  than subtraction and division  that, as we went through and started collecting data and had these probes, we have these 50 question,  factual and C probes that we have a time of two minutes to try to measure proficiency against. And the more we were doing this, and the more we continued to look at data, we started asking questions. So for example, should oh, what is proficient? Is it 50 out of 50 if we haven't taught it yet? Is it a percentage out of 50 in the first quarter. And then that percentage changes the second quarter and then it changes the third until the end goal is 50 out of 50. Most of the Common Core standards are written as. By the end of grade X this is the accomplishment. So how do you accurately report progress as a student making decent progress in that first ten weeks of school against that standard? So the two challenges that the two arguments that are out there is should you have quarterly increasing raising the bar recorder,  or should you always be reporting against the standard?
NEXT> Dan Cherry: And then again, we have to take into consideration our all those concepts taught. When are they taught? If you look, the Common Core standards break down at certain grade

[8407-69] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: question if they got 45 out of 50 facts right. Do you know your math facts and is that proficient or is 50 out of 50 really what it means to be proficient? This is all these are all the conversations that are coming up.
TEXT> You know, again, sometimes you might say, well, you guys are really overthinking this. But when you look at it, individual child and you're starting looking at their data and you want to help them improve, these are the kinds of questions that come up. So some considerations, we know that we have students who have processing speed errors. We know that we have kids with working memory errors. We know that we have people who have OT students who have OT issues. And again, can a verbal answer be accepted as representing a kid's ability to perform? We're also we know. We already know because what we're seeing our kindergartners do the impact of all day kindergarten. As we are getting all this momentum in this district. And as the levels and the data are going to prove out everything that's happening, it's going to be inevitable that this town made one of their greatest investments when they moved to all day kindergarten, because the things that our kids are doing now in kindergarten, you know, we were six months into first grade before, the skills that they're showing us now.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Wow. So, we'll be able to show better after this fourth quarter, how attacking these looking at the structure, giving kids different opportunities to demonstrate what they know and and

[8407-71] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: back and try to look at last year's cohort versus this year's cohort with our data. And that's the I think that's our math fact part. Do we want to break it up there. Are there any questions around just that in particular please, Michelle.
TEXT> Do you allow the children to actually pick? I know you said you did the strips where it went one way or the other way.  Is there are you allowing them to kind of almost pick? I think it's great that you're finding different ways to hit the same target. I just wondering, are are you just saying, okay, you're going to have because, you know,  or do they come up and say, for example, with the flashcards?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Sure.

[8407-74] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Are they able to do the flashcard as opposed to the test itself?
TEXT> Well, like I said, that's what we're finding. We're finding individuals have individual skills and strengths. Yeah. And so again with the consultant that we're working with, he suggested that we offer both ways and start to look at what are the what do the kids want to gravitate towards. So we we gave them ten problems at a time with no time limit. So we took the sheet. We didn't use the exact same ones because we're trying to maintain the integrity of each of those quarterly probes. But, you know, ten, ten, ten and ten. And again, some kids could just knock out ten and ten and ten that like that. But that page of 50, as soon as they got stuck, they just everything panicked, really panicked. So, it is about trying to differentiate, learn their what their styles are. Help them understand how best to attack that. And that's learning right? Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[8407-88] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (attribution by elimination: Rapp, Pierc | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: Based on the feedback we received from teachers yesterday, we're planning on a model where once a month we get together, cross district to work on, curriculum and these types of conversations.
TEXT> Just a quick question. Do we have an idea as far as what we're looking at for grade level performance in the factors? I mean, I know the grades not done yet, but those kids going from second to third grade is pretty much everybody where they should be with this or we still,  have, lacking in that from a kind of an overall picture. And if we are, what's our strategy? Because if they're not doing it from second to third, then third to fourth isn't going to be any better. Right, right.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: And what I think I think the evidence of generating the questions that we're doing, that's that's what's driving these questions coming up. Why why do we seem to be

[8407-98] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: More questions.
TEXT> Can I? And we're showing huge growth, and I, I I'd be happy to come back another time and show you the growth that bluff has had to be proud of that I think. Listen, one thing I got my little laser light there. Look, we all know that it is difficult for a kid to grow a grade and a half, two grades in a year. It's it's challenging. One thing that we have done that is smart is that when kids come in, they get a full year of a full day of education, knowing  that at January of this past year, our kids were at where they were at the end of the year. So they've had January until June 8th to show increased growth. And so I think, what are we going to do to help those kids grow? We're going to give them a much better start in this district than they've had previously. Hopefully getting them to to where they should be in grade one. Because if you have a big gap in kindergarten going to first, it's difficult to close that, going to second, going to third. So hopefully we can close in the beginning. We're in good shape. So that's for me. That's step one. That's a huge step in that in that direction.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Gotcha.

[8407-102] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Patrick Adrian: know, kind of how we're balancing out. Or is there a kind of kind of attention to, I think, students curiosity level? I think kind of more than just what they're able to perform and demonstrate, but sort of an inquisitiveness and interest in math.
TEXT> Your spot on. So that's one of our engagement is one of our themes for next year, right? I mean, we have that's you named it. That's exactly a huge piece of it. The other thing I will say is in our  math practices,  our models are really supposed to be driven at concrete, pictorial, abstract, looking at  a, you know, taking a first grader and asking them what, you know, six plus five is those symbols that's so abstract it means nothing. So we got to do a lot with cubes and manipulatives and grouping and re and shuffling and all that. And now all of a sudden things start to make sense. And then we have to understand that, when you, when you take a, a  di  six, you can turn it this way and it's still six. And if you brought it over here, it's still six, and you bring it down here, it's still six. And  a lot of our kids didn't have that. That's coming much more now they have that, six is part of them. They know that that's six and that will. And they can trust it when you don't have that experience. Every time kids see those, that pattern that we all know is six, they're going one, two, three, four, five, six because they don't trust it's not internal to them.
NEXT> Dan Cherry: Right. But one of the other shifts that we're making in our math program is all the way up and down the line is we are going to be using

[8407-104] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Dan Cherry: that's what we collectively across all the elementary schools. That's how we're going to start. That's the expectation now. It's not the great the the gifted. No. That's the expectation for everyone being able to solve real world relevant problems that make sense to them.
TEXT> If I may. You know, we've talked a little bit at the board level around our strategic action plan moving forward. We'll be working with with Mark Dolan. But there are three priority areas for the plan  and for our work moving forward. It's early learning, engagement and personalization because we recognize that the concern you raise is a real concern with our students. And so,  to some degree, putting our money where our mouth is and ensuring that that's part of  our plan moving forward to to talk further about a lot of the things that Dan and Melissa and Mike are referencing here.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks very. I was just listening and I like heard a lot of the issues that were concerning with if people haven't mastered the subject and have them even great

[8407-110] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> So I'm really excited to share with the writing program. A lot of good stuff is happening here. The writing program really started from scratch. Amanda Aarons is a consultant that the district hired to help us kind of organize, streamline and get everything going in the right direction. A writing committee was formed. They created a program literally from scratch. Of course, they had other templates to move from. They had the writings and and resources of writing experts. They were able to rely on others, but, they were able to kind of create something that worked for our kids. The theme, what do you Claremont kids need? What do they need? No one's going to know that better than a committee made of Claremont educators. So we had that really going for us, a real advantage for us here. Does it meet the Common Core standards? We know we have to meet those doesn't meet our kids needs while meeting the Common Core standards, the method we chose to use, we took the Common Core standards. We packed them into four really large, really lengthy writing tasks. Launching which started narrative, which was second opinion and informative. Those are the four big writing tasks kindergarten through fifth grade. They all took on. They took them on kind of different times. The general time was the same. You can think of it as quarter one quarter to quarter three, quarter four doesn't quite fit in that time frame.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I think it's an easy way to think about it. Launching was important. It really helps set the tone for the program and help provide routines, help provide clarity for

[8407-112] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: what we would consider proficient. Really the big part of it is you want to make sure you have an identical pre and post assessment. It's difficult, as we all know, to judge how people do if you're if you're judging them on something different.
TEXT> So we want to make sure that in each of our four structures they have those same pre and post assessment that the kids could do. And so that we could have accurate look at that growth, opinion writing. And this is just for third grade. But this is just giving you an idea of how lengthy it is. There's about 11 lessons for third grade. You know, each one is different. 4th May have 12, 5th May have, you know, 14, kindergarten may have eight. But just to give you an idea of the length, the lessons take more than one day to complete. Sometimes two, sometimes three really depends on the pace of that class and the pace of how they're learning. Again, we don't want to move forward if they haven't learned what they need to. It's difficult to get to lesson two if they don't understand lesson one. Teachers, it's kind of again, the structure teachers used. They use produce lessons roughly three ish days per week. Again, that could just be one lesson, depending on how long it took them to do that. Teacher autonomy for the for the remaining day. So just a simple way to think about it.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday they had something that guided them. Thursday and Friday they had the autonomy to take what the kids were working on, kind of create and shift

[8407-113] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: used. They use produce lessons roughly three ish days per week. Again, that could just be one lesson, depending on how long it took them to do that. Teacher autonomy for the for the remaining day. So just a simple way to think about it.
TEXT> Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday they had something that guided them. Thursday and Friday they had the autonomy to take what the kids were working on, kind of create and shift and make their own lessons based off what they were doing those previous three days. It could, of course, go from Friday, Monday, Tuesday. But I think a Monday through Friday is an easy way to envision that structure. Each unit lasts roughly again, it can be a little longer, a little shorter, usually not shorter, but it's somewhere around 6 to 8 weeks. There's a lot of reasons it can go longer or shorter vacations,  how long it takes kids to do that? There are really hard set times where we want to give the pre and hard set times. We want to give the post so that the district is moving along together. That was really important and something that we all came up with together to make sure that, you know, a Disney art isn't stuck on on narrative when bluff has moved on to opinion or something like that. So we were all moving together at the same time and again, these dates and these times and these units were all created by that writing committee, again, from the ground up, from scratch, with Amanda Aaron's kind of helping us move forward, work.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I think we're all really proud of students. One thing that was important students need one on one time with teachers. It's called a writing workshop. We want to make

[8407-114] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: that. So we were all moving together at the same time and again, these dates and these times and these units were all created by that writing committee, again, from the ground up, from scratch, with Amanda Aaron's kind of helping us move forward, work.
TEXT> I think we're all really proud of students. One thing that was important students need one on one time with teachers. It's called a writing workshop. We want to make sure that those kids get that time. They get that attention from an adult in the classroom. It could be a paraprofessional based off of their needs. It could be another adult in the room if we happen to provide extra help. But we want to make sure that they are getting one on one opportunities to learn from the adult so that they are getting those needs met and questions asked and questions answered at a level that they they need. The lesson structure, whole group, practice and then sharing that was kind of always the theme of our of our lessons. We want to make sure that we get the whole group lesson. We want to make sure the kids have practice. We want to make sure that they're able to share. And sharing could be peer to peer. It could be in front of the whole group. It can be a part of that one on one time with teachers. There's a lot of different ways to manipulate that, but we wanted to make sure in those three in the lesson structure, those three things were met.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: So where do you write in units? Just in case you want to check it out, go to source six. I know we all have been there. Curriculum is highlighted

[8407-116] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: here I want you to kind of see everything that we talk about. And then we're going to show you some writing work so that you see kids, what they look like kind of in the beginning pre assessment what they look like post assessment.
TEXT> So opinion writing this is the the third unit in kind of our four lesson structure or our four unit structure.  Again 11 lessons. It's vertically aligned. And what does that mean. It means if this is the third unit it aligns with the second. And the fourth unit in third grade would then align with second grade as well as fourth grade, so that it kind of flows together so that it makes sense. And it's lots of fun. The kids really liked it. There was a lot of growth. They were excited. They opinion they got to take on topics that they found interesting. The kids really enjoyed it. This on the right hand side is the prompt. It's something that helps the teachers kind of guide the pre assessment or the lesson. So grading how does it look. There's kind of two ways to do it. This one here is really common. You can find it on the website. It talks about introduction opinions development details closure. It talks about what is not yet proficient, what is proficient and so forth. So it gives the teachers an idea of what to look for for these kiddos, that you can accurately, accurately grade them so that maple a Disney art and bluff.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: You know that kids are being graded on the same thing. So we're not really talking, but yet we are. We are grading everybody on the same thing. So I

[8407-117] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: closure. It talks about what is not yet proficient, what is proficient and so forth. So it gives the teachers an idea of what to look for for these kiddos, that you can accurately, accurately grade them so that maple a Disney art and bluff.
TEXT> You know that kids are being graded on the same thing. So we're not really talking, but yet we are. We are grading everybody on the same thing. So I think we thought that was important. And so we we made sure that was added over here as a teacher checklist that used the least for this unit. It just helped as a teacher created a checklist that just helped the teacher provide the assessment, provide some of the structure, make sure that, you know, make a tick in the box, so to speak. So they made sure everything was being,  spoken of. So writing prompts. Right. So so cat or dog was the one for writing and which would you rather have as a pet? Geez, I don't know. I don't know a lot about cats. I don't own a dog. They scare me. Yikes. If that's the case, each teacher gets the same. Writing prompted the class to talk about what? So they have the same information to pull from. So one, you know, one's on a cat, one's on a dog. These kids have information to pull from. It's at their reading level. It's at a level that they understand. You know, this is a part of the whole group discussion. A discussion goes on in there.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: And so the kids have a really good, you know, they start formulating ideas in their brain and they move forward. So I just want to kind of give you

[8407-118] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: know, one's on a cat, one's on a dog. These kids have information to pull from. It's at their reading level. It's at a level that they understand. You know, this is a part of the whole group discussion. A discussion goes on in there.
TEXT> And so the kids have a really good, you know, they start formulating ideas in their brain and they move forward. So I just want to kind of give you an example so that they do the writing prompts. They get this stuff and bang, they go right into a pre assessment. And it's really I wasn't sure how it was going to be in here. You guys. This is the pre assessment here. This is a pretty solid kid. This is this is above proficient. This little girl. She's an excellent writer. But if we were to really go into this free assessment and then the post assessment in the end is different. And even though this girl is a really good writer, she doesn't really introduce her topic. Well, she doesn't state her opinion. Well, she doesn't really list a lot of reasons to support that, which are all things that we want in the proficiency for grade three. And,  you know, and if you if you get  this PowerPoint to yourself and you read this again, I don't know if it's shared and if it is, I encourage you to kind of read the difference.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: You can tell it. She really improves and it's excellent. And she does a wonderful job below proficient. This is a much better example. You can see there's no capitalization

[8407-119] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: we want in the proficiency for grade three. And, you know, and if you if you get this PowerPoint to yourself and you read this again, I don't know if it's shared and if it is, I encourage you to kind of read the difference.
TEXT> You can tell it. She really improves and it's excellent. And she does a wonderful job below proficient. This is a much better example. You can see there's no capitalization random periods. There's a capitalization here. It's not smooth. It's not the way it should be done. He really improves it. Although he still says below proficiency his his Edith a much better job, right? I mean just looking here. Capital D Weller tasty. Much better spacing. He starts to include commas. He starts to he starts to include reasons. Appropriate punctuation to the grade three level. Good stuff is happening. And again, if we go way back, that is all being judged based on this. That is found right there. And the same thing that we all have at every school that's supposed to be given to everybody together. So it's the same, it's symmetrical, it's very nicely done.  And that's how we know that these kids are below and above, because we use that chart that we have.  So we're going to go into  talking about a couple examples here. And we're going to give you an example from kindergarten all the way through fifth grade. So here's a really good kindergarten example, right?
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I'm not sure what they're saying. Right. And it's cute and fun. And they made a really good attempt. I like something I'm not sure. Right. And I think it's

[8407-121] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: So it's a great example in the launching unit. Right? Right. In the beginning first grade writing in September all the way to April. We have a lot going on here. Again, it's really easy to tell what's going on. So things to look for.
TEXT> How's the punctuation? How's the spelling and grammar. It should be appropriate to that grade level to first grade. It's really easy to see some things that pop out spacing, capitalization, phonetic words. Again looks much better. You can really read this one. My dog Burke went overseas, sees another dog and it's really well done. And you can really see the progression from kindergarten to first grade. It's very clear that these kids are improving. Grade two personal narrative I gave two examples here. We circled some of the problems with it. You could really see it got shorter. It got more appropriate. There's in grade two, you start to supply reasons, right? Why is my cat better than my dog? Why this? Why that? You start to use linking words that would be like also because, kind of expand those sentences, bring two sentences, these really short sentences you saw here. We're starting to expand them and link them in grade two. So they do a nice job of that. You're talking to periods exclamation points start from used here. A good example is here. This is this is a professional one. But it's not rushing me. You know that's a really good example of really appropriate punctuation.
NEXT> Unidentified: On the math problems. But you you get a good example. He here's a real soft.

[8407-125] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Make them.
TEXT> Make them look better. It's the same thing here, guys. We talked about grade three a little bit. But you know you're going to see you get your pre assessment and your post assessment. And it's just they're getting better. Here's grade four. Here's some things you want to look for in grade four. Put my notes quickly. Write a clearance reduction. You want an organized structure. You want facts that support the reasons it needs to again phonetically, really start to make sense. A lot more expansive linking words. The writing is just starting to look better. This is a this is a pretty good example. Even even the beforehand it meets kind of the third grade. So you can tell that that that that that that year to year growth is there. The second one is much better. It's even even looks better. It looks more organized there. That's a part of it to how does it look. How does it present.  Great. For this is an efficient one. We want to have video games. Should they have it? It was kind of a fun topic for the kids. Should they include video games in the library?
NEXT> Michael Lansing: Right. What's your opinion on that? That was the assignment here that fourth graders got to do. And and in this, this student did a nice job. And you see

[8407-138] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: It actually is moving into six through eight as well working with Amanda.
TEXT> This is this is the great way, I believe to really start seeing some of the, you know, the production of having the kindergarten and all day and with the math, I see the, the, the teachings, the change of mindset is that each child is an individual. Even though we have to teach a group of children in the school at one time in a class that you're you're becoming more individualized with each child's learning process. The strips of paper for the math is is incredible. If I'd had that, I might have been a little more successful with my time.
NEXT> Michael Lansing: I mean, there's a million ways to teach something, right? I mean, math is math is a really easy way to think about that, right? Because, you know, three times

[8407-139] Michael Lansing | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (superintendent: 'Mike Lansing, who | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: in the school at one time in a class that you're you're becoming more individualized with each child's learning process. The strips of paper for the math is is incredible. If I'd had that, I might have been a little more successful with my time.
TEXT> I mean, there's a million ways to teach something, right? I mean, math is math is a really easy way to think about that, right? Because, you know, three times seven, there's a bunch of ways to think about that and solve it. And the strips of papers want or looking at it this way is another bar. Modeling is a real classic. One taught it at this level, but it is a strategy. And I think here you're talking about engagement. Isn't it fun to pick a topic that kids are engaged? And what fourth grader wouldn't be able to have an opinion on whether video games should be in libraries? Of course they will. They all love video games, right? So let's take advantage of that and let's throw it into something they care about so that they're going to be fired up. Like, you know what I want to tell about this? I have an opinion on whether this should be in here or not. And here's why. And that's a lot better than something that they have no interest in. And, and that's, that's our, our committee thinking ahead and saying, how am I going to keep these kids interested in this? They put together really good topics and really good, you know, units and lessons.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Is your committee just the gist of teachers or do you have outside like parents involved? Is it or is this committee that you've formed just teachers.

[8407-145] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael Lansing: Yeah. But again led by, led by and directed by Amanda.
TEXT> Because there's a lot of my concerns are the emotional impact that especially with the Claremont School systems, that if the children that are moving constantly and having to go from one school to another school drastically. So what worked in one school, having the fact of knowing that  all three schools are providing the same curriculum  now in these teaching  models is, I think, going to make a huge difference emotionally for a.
NEXT> Unidentified: Child.

[8407-152] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brent Ferland: That's great.
TEXT> And I would just like to, beside Corey LeClaire, give another example  of our terrific students as Stevens High School. And these are the whoopie pies. This is not a paid commercial, but I'm. Just I'm just bragging about our students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Smelling really. Good about.

[8407-157] Dan Cherry | Elementary school principal (superintendent: 'what I heard Dan say' [1 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: So it really is an exciting time. And when kiddos are angry at their principal because there's an assembly scheduled, I'll take the heat for that and understand that you know, deep down I'm cheering them on that they're excited by that.
TEXT> But those are the last slide because these are these are these are two important things. This is the most transparent work you will ever see to date at the elementary level. Every plan, every rubric, every prompt is online for anyone in the public to go and click on and see that's that's that's incredible. I challenge you to find districts in New Hampshire that will have that up there. And then I want piggyback on Melissa's. It's a amazingly odd, wonderful feeling to see kids enjoy writing. That's that's a little bit atypical over my entire career of you have kids who are writers. There are kids who are writing  and writing and want to write and want to share. And one of this, what that is creating, which is one of the hardest areas to get to in the writing prompts from the standards, is voice. They are sharing what's important to them, and that's writer's voice. And that is starting to come through at first and second grade. And that's it's and it's there are strategies to teach it, but the best way that voice comes through is natural, and it's happening naturally because our kids are writing.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And they're excited to share. I had a parent say to me, I answered the phone early one morning and said, so-and-so is coming to school today. I'm not really

[8407-159] Melissa Lewis | Elementary school principal (introduced with Dan Cherry and Mike Lansi | 2016-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: many resources, and our teachers have had the support of Kathleen Bonnell throughout the year, as well as each other to kind of unpack that and say, so which of these components work best for which type of reader and all of those amazing conversations?
TEXT> The level of professional conversations that are occurring in our schools are simply amazing,  and each school has a slightly different way that they're going about that. But the essence is the same an enormous amount of professional conversation about improving instructional practices to improve the education that our kids are receiving in the growth that they see. So I'm going to leave with one final comment. And I get to because I'm last. And they didn't they didn't get to do that. So that's what I get for getting to go. Last second grader today, I had the privilege of him coming into my office and saying, sit down, you need to hear this. So I sat down. Hang on to your seat, Mrs. Lewis. I'm on it. I've got it. I have some news to share. Go for it. Now. This is a child who, at the beginning of the school year, was reading with one of our assessments at a level five significantly below grade level. You heard Doctor Goodwin speak about some of the data meetings and what that looks like when our teachers get together.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And again, all of our schools have them. They just look slightly different depending on the process we're using. We had conversation about this kiddo all year long. Kiddo, if

[8407-168] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (O'Neill: 'What Patrick was just talking | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> I,  I don't know, I don't I find that particular tests like very kind of stressful, like they're like S.A.T. style questions. And when they give you this reading passage and you're just struggling to stay awake with it because they find the driest, worst writing to do it, and then they give you these questions and that's what they're assessing them on. And I guess it would. So weekly testing, that's the kind of stuff I start worrying about is the volume when we're doing the, you know, where those kind of tests I mean the kids will get used to it. I don't know if I think kids should be getting used to that.  Is it really necessary that we're having to do weekly reading tests like standardized questions like that style?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, how about is that something that's being done?

[8407-179] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: I can take you back. Yeah.
TEXT> I mean, I tell you right now that I think this is absolutely extraordinary. The work that you're doing and  the collaboration between all of the schools is, is just such a huge, huge thing. First of all, secondly, my schooling was a traumatic experience as I was a severe dyslexic, so I struggled from the get go. So to hear that you're giving a strip test here or you're, you're, you're you're picking a video game question to make it more exciting or you're picking within the realm of what a child's interest are, rather than what the book says you should do. I commend every single one of you on all of your hard work, because it's showing. And my grandson hits Bluff School in September as a kindergartner, so I'm ecstatic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good luck, say.

[8407-188] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Well, thank you.
TEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald, principal at the middle school. And I have three colleagues this evening. I have Courtney Steele, who's a special education teacher at the middle school. And I also have our two guidance counselors, our school counselors, Felicia Harvey and Susan Taylor, who will be presenting again in a little while. So first, I would just like to start with congratulations  to our elementary colleagues for the hard work that that they are doing, because it's going to make our jobs easier in a few years as these students start to come up. So what you'll be seeing from us tonight is sort of a continuation of what we've been doing the last couple of years, really looking at data, really trying to make changes to meet the needs of our of our students. So, so.
NEXT> Unidentified: I guess we'll.

[8407-191] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: us many challenges as well as a lot of opportunity. You know, when when you're going through something like this, sometimes some days it's good, some days it's really bad. But when you really examine things, it really becomes an opportunity to make some changes.
TEXT> And as a result of going through that, we've made some improvements over the past few years  with advisory. We've gotten an improved schedule. We have student led conferences. When we do the conferences at the beginning of the year. Those are really great to see the students get into this. We have an intervention block that has been evolving since it was put into place. We have got some improved transitions from five to fifth to sixth and eighth to ninth that you'll hear about later from Miss Taylor and Miss Harvey  and improved communication. And through it all, student achievement has always been the forefront. That's been our focus at CMS.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: So how do we monitor and respond to student achievement? We use a lot of data and different kinds of data. We use our map scores. And you've heard about

[8407-192] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: got some improved transitions from five to fifth to sixth and eighth to ninth that you'll hear about later from Miss Taylor and Miss Harvey and improved communication. And through it all, student achievement has always been the forefront. That's been our focus at CMS.
TEXT> So how do we monitor and respond to student achievement? We use a lot of data and different kinds of data. We use our map scores. And you've heard about that earlier. We've we's Ames web. And we used that mostly to monitor our reading.  Kneecap when we had kneecap formative and summative assessments within the classroom, we use our behavior data, our attendance data. Also standards based instruction and assessment. We've been working a lot, you know, that that's been a big thing here. We've certainly  learned a lot, and we've been doing a lot with that, and differentiated instruction, trying to meet the needs of all of our students, and RTI response to instruction. And that's what you'll be hearing  about.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: More so with our RTI model. We have developed the intervention blocks that I was talking about earlier. It's been phased in over a period of three years, and we

[8407-193] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Paulette Fitzgerald: that that's been a big thing here. We've certainly learned a lot, and we've been doing a lot with that, and differentiated instruction, trying to meet the needs of all of our students, and RTI response to instruction. And that's what you'll be hearing about.
TEXT> More so with our RTI model. We have developed the intervention blocks that I was talking about earlier. It's been phased in over a period of three years, and we started with a focus on those students that were below the 20th percentile in reading. In math,  what we found is most of those students that were below the 20th in reading or in math, most of them were also below the 20th in reading. And so reading was our priority. And why is that? Well, 25% of our students, when we sat down and looked at the data, were below the 20th percentile. And that was really a a  shocking all moment when we were sitting there looking at those numbers. And we all just kind of went, oh my God.  And so that really hit home as to why reading was going to be our main priority and for that group.
NEXT> Unidentified: As well.

[8407-198] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: About a year.
TEXT> Right. And that was about 100 of our students out of our approximately 400. So that was pretty shocking. So what did we do?  So using our all of our data students were grouped by need. And so that was part of our RTI slash data team, you know, looking at where the students, had those dips, where the students were not being successful. The groups were across grade levels. So we had some six seventh, eighth graders, sometimes in the same group because they were demonstrating the same need. The targeted groups below the 20th percentile were taught using one of three scripted programs, and our reading specialists at the time had found these programs for us to use. Students between the 20th and the 30th percentiles were they also used a scripted program?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[8407-200] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Students with the math needs were also grouped and assigned to targeted math groups, the non targeted students. So those outside of the groups that we were looking at right. They were assigned to groups that focused on literacy and the nice to know standards. There's a lot of standards that we can't get in. I know doctor McGivern in the past has talked about our, you know, getting that target in the middle. And so the ones that are the nice to know level where the focus of some of these non targeted groups and we have been tracking data on all of our students, during that intervention block, it's a 45 minute period every single day every hand is on deck. Whether it's a teacher or a paraprofessional, every single one has a group of students that they're working with during that time.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: And Doctor Goodwin has been in the building during our intervention block. And he has said some of these groups are really small. Our targeted groups are very small. We're

[8407-203] Paulette Fitzgerald | Principal, Claremont Middle School (self-ID 'Paulette Fitzgerald, prin | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Okay.
TEXT> So the good news, after doing this for a while, we've discovered that 73% of the students who are in the targeted reading groups improved.  And some of that improvement was very dramatic. Some students made two years growth in in actually going from fall to fall to winter. So it was dramatic what we were seeing, you know, if we were to if we were to predict this is what we were predicting, this is what we were hoping would happen. So we take students with these great deficits. We focus on those deficits for 45 minutes every day. And we saw some amazing growth. This is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Me to you.

[8407-233] Courtney Steele | Special education teacher, Claremont Middle School (introduced by Fitz | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Three times a year. Yeah.
TEXT> And we've also been triangulating the data with other data points. So particularly when we're looking at doing the groups for the intervention block, we have the map data. And then we, we go to the next step and say, okay,  what else do we know about these students. So we may have a web data that we also look at. And if  if they don't match then we say okay so then let's get some input from that students classroom language our teacher and see where the problem is. What are the other factors at play here? Is this really what this student needs or should he be with this group? So we really take it and kind of analyze it to death almost.
NEXT> Paulette Fitzgerald: We do. And and it's the our data team is, we have very interesting, passionate meetings for sure. And so it's that passion is, is really exciting. And we presented

[8407-252] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> Essentially, our purpose with this presentation today is to explain all of the different things we do. And I think we do quite a bit to really help move our kids, both from fifth grade into sixth grade and our eighth graders into ninth grade, which are both huge jumps. For all of our kiddos. And and they get stressed out. But I think that we do a lot to kind of ease their mind and and I hope we do.  So this, like I said, is just kind of a quick overview.  We do a lot starting really early. I think we started in February this year, planning transitions. So hopefully that'll be relayed further along in our presentation.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: And these are pictures. Of our barbecue that has grown from about five. To I swear.

[8407-268] Susan Taylor | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced 'Felicia Harvey  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Felicia Harvey: level. It depends on, you know, their aspirations. And, it's it's it's a really good process. It takes a long time about the entire month of March for us to get through our eighth grade class. But we have a lot of fun with it.
TEXT> It's really a fun thing to do. It's one of them most enjoyable things we do. And then. We have  these we call these transition meetings with the elementary schools come up to us. They sometimes bring parents and students with them. We talk. Sometimes they have 504 or. We have three designated days for transition meetings next week  for  each school that's coming. And then we go to the ones that are scientists, because I have the end of the alphabet and beginning of the alphabet for the last names, and we sit down in our meetings and listen to, their needs and what they're going to be doing next year and eight to ninth. We have plans to meet next week, again next week. Our biggest week of the year. We're meeting with the high school team  to go over some of the same things on that end of our student. So.
NEXT> Felicia Harvey: So parent nights, we have a lot to do with the sixth graders. We have a parent night. It's going to be the same day as a road trip next

[8407-273] Susan Taylor | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced 'Felicia Harvey  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Felicia Harvey: the parents can see, during the parent barbecue or, you know, the barbecue. There's also tours given then, and typically we do go the, the high school puts on a parent night for our eighth graders. And we do try and join that as well.
TEXT> We'll say they the fifth to sixth grade parents are pretty nervous because they think middle school and it's time to move on. And then we get a few tears when the kids 8 to 9. So both transitions are challenging for parents.
NEXT> Unidentified: So this is our barbecue.

[8407-276] Felicia Harvey | School counselor, Claremont Middle School (introduced [341, 415]; 'Sue | 2016-05-18
PREV> Susan Taylor: And the people that go to the barbecue are the six, the whole six. The the whole team of teachers go. The teachers, administration we go. And there's the over 150 people. Attended.
TEXT> Yes. Our student council is there for us as well. Yeah.
NEXT> Susan Taylor: So they get quite a few. Yes. Because student council like.

[8407-298] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (superintendent: 'Pat ... is going to b | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: Oh.
TEXT> Marty called me. Five minutes before I came to the meeting, and she wanted the board very much to know. She was so proud of our juniors, who this week took the science kneecap because we still have kneecap for science, and we did it in the gym. And she just wanted the board to know how well behaved the students were, how focused on the test, how seriously they took it, how patient they were, if they were done earlier than some of the others, and they had brought a book and they had just hung out, and they were respectful of those students who were still working on the test. And I attribute a lot of it to the Skittles that we provided, because everybody knows Skittles makes everything better. But Karen really wanted everybody to know  that, and that it speaks to the message that we've been really trying to get out, that kneecaps the information that we get from it is really important because it helps us to inform how to better teach them. And while it doesn't go on their transcript and it doesn't become something that is advertised on a student by student basis, that it's important data for us to have so that we can make their education more meaningful to them. And they took it very seriously. So I just wanted to share that with you.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thanks.

[8407-333] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Please, Frank.' [392] -> [393]; | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Change the laws in order to make that happen?
TEXT> Some of the kids have very profound disabilities,  and we.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Can't.

[8407-337] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Them here. I'm not. That's not true. I think that if we put the right things in place and we work hard enough to figure it out, that we could keep children in our district and not ship them out.
TEXT> So a couple things. One is, Frank is correct that some of our children do have very profound disabilities and have disabilities that, we in public education would never be able to support, whether their health care needs or other medical needs of that nature. We would not be able to do that here. As you've heard from Pat in the in the recent months, we actually have,  created an alternative education program within the high school so that we can avoid sending students out to out of district placement. I believe we've technically even brought a student back from out of district placement. For those students who we can, with certain tweaks to our programing and certain supports put in place, we can provide them as good, if not better of an education here in district at a general cost savings. When we get into the nitty gritty of who and what and where and what's our policy for for testing, when we do receive a student from another district and become the district of the liability, I think that it would probably be prudent to schedule an additional conversation when Chris Bezos, the director of special education, can be at the table because he knows far
NEXT> Cory LeClair: more about special education than than I do. And I will continue to field questions. But eventually I'll get to a point where I really don't know. And that's not

[8407-361] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: So physical disabilities in a lot of cases, you know, placements and different things like that, additional services.
TEXT> Even if it's not physical disability. So so a few things, a few of the  basics around special education. One is there's no individual person who says,  you know, Frank Sprague needs an out of district placement. All of those decisions are done by a  team of people that represent educators, administrators, parents, related service providers like OTS, PT, speech, evaluators, school psychologists, and all of that. So every decision is made by a team. And the way  that I understand the special ed law is that a child needs to be in the least restrictive environment.  And so an out of district placement is typically a very extreme measure. And there's many of our students who are actually serviced in our schools in programs within our schools. For instance, we heard from a couple of them earlier today,  and the, the programs that they're in currently in our schools, we are considering the least restrictive environment for them. It ranges from being in a general education classroom where you walk in, and you wouldn't be able to tell that there were any disabilities to very specialized programing.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I think the other thing to consider is that when we have a family who moves from another community to our community, there's absolutely some lag time in terms of

[8407-362] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator, Assistant Superintendent per roster by Jan 2017;  | 2016-05-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: that they're in currently in our schools, we are considering the least restrictive environment for them. It ranges from being in a general education classroom where you walk in, and you wouldn't be able to tell that there were any disabilities to very specialized programing.
TEXT> I think the other thing to consider  is that when  we have a family who moves from another community to our community, there's absolutely some lag time in terms of them moving here, getting registered, us understanding where they are currently placed, us connecting with their prior district, getting that I p information, reading the IP information, understanding it, figuring out where they are at in their process. With some of our homeless families, for instance, they are to us and gone out of our system before the paperwork ever even catches up with them.  And so, every child is considered on an individual case by case basis in terms of funding for these extreme cases, we are required by law to provide a free and appropriate public education for every child in the United States of America, every child.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so if if a single child's version of a free and appropriate, appropriate public education requires an out of district placement, then that's what we as a community are

[8407-376] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: won't in my opinion. I want an IEP to be as, as far place so that that child has the best education, just like any other child and is visible to anyone in, in the the school system is just another kid doing coming in.
TEXT> And all of the different changes between kindergarten and now have definitely are going to make a huge difference with those children. Get to high school there. IEPs might even drop, but I just see such a large quantity. And I just want to understand how we can make a difference.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: Do you think I mean, I see you know, it's make more sense now. I mean, when I in Newport when I was. We, we had we had in our

[8407-391] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michael O'Neill: Collective bargaining agreement that's currently in place is if I have a person out, I shall offer the hours to a person working in that building first. So they are tied. So that's what I do is offer to the.
TEXT> What a great it would be a great opportunity for the kids in the high school to get community service time  and help and help.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: Certain circumstances. Yes. If you go to see expenditures, go by object. Yes, sir.

[8407-480] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Michelle Pierce: is this if you if if we can find every way possible and the child doesn't require going to. I've seen children that have been in wheelchairs in the schools, so I know that we can be adaptable to to a child with extreme disabilities.
TEXT> We have children with in wheelchairs in our schools. Correct. We just just a week ago, we looked at a couple of pieces of property as a. Place where our students with certain needs or learning challenges would, would be housed, if you will. We continue to do that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just don't want to hear any more that we can't handle it. So we got to send him away because your children that you're sending away, they're the ones

[8407-483] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (Cherry: 'please, Michelle' [131] -> [13 | 2016-05-18
PREV> Brian Rapp: We.
TEXT> In certain I see the certain extreme cases and I get that. However, for the most part, my daughter could have stayed in Claremont during our process of four years of three different schools and finally graduating six months later at Stevens her senior year. I'm not, I'm not. I'm just saying I'm championing for the children as much as the families to stay here because it's not their fault. It. I had to drive myself the task of driving every day to  took it twice a day  for a year to take a child to school because they couldn't handle her was extremely aggravating. It took away four hours of our family every day because when you're driving, you're not. You can't be distracted by it just doesn't even matter. I'm advocating for the possibilities to see the possibilities of bringing as much as we can back.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think. I think we're all hoping that that.

[8407-489] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [35-49]; S | 2016-05-18
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: going to take place and we hope it's going to be a 2 to 3 month process. We're not going to be looking at months and months. Also school calendar a meeting with the Sri A this Friday to talk about school calendar collective bargaining.
TEXT> This Friday, Frank Sprague and Brian Rapp, representing the school board and the collective bargaining subcommittee are going to meet the Friday afternoon with the SRA, NEA to  talk about ground rules and to talk about dates for collective bargaining. Youth risk behavior study group. There were two articles in your packet. Additional recommendations coming to the board  regarding health  and some changes in how we do business in preparing children with important information elementary, middle and high school. And last but not least, food service. You do have in your packet a food service report. I also put. At your place a light yellow sheet. Thank you, Mr. O'Neill. A light yellow sheet that shows to date. As of this week, we've served 167,000 meals. You can see the paid, the reduced. Free reduced. And if you'll note, Kyle Gregory would like to report to you that parent teacher students are very pleased with the new choices changes we have made to the program. Lots of positive feedback. We still are going forward. And I talked to Carol Gregory about this. Mike O'Neill is sure that all the food service staff are aware that in June, we're going to be reviewing our summary piece to be sure that we are doing the best we can. It's not a question about our service. It's just is there a way of doing business better? And that's the question we're going to be answering.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if I can move right along. There are so many important dates and events planned starting tomorrow right through to the weekend of June 10th, which is alumni weekend.

[8433-20] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: We have no student up tonight. We'll go right to superintendent's report. Thank you.
TEXT> And good evening.  This Friday, June 3rd, the annual Stevens High School Pop concert will be held at Stephens High School beginning at 7:00.  In the high school auditorium. I would like to remind the committee, as well as the community, that this will be,  there there'll be several performances by Stevens High School band,  choir, as well as the music theater programs. And I'd also like to note that this is the final concert of Patricia Granter, who has been  in our music instructor,  leader of the band and chorus,  for the past 21 years. So it certainly would be nice as a sendoff to Mrs. Granter if people could attend not only to celebrate our student musicians and in theater students, but also  to thank her for her 21 years of  of service. I also before packet there is a  a yellow  sheet and on this  it's actually a list of class of 2016 event reminders.  All of our seniors received this, and it's just gives you an appreciation of what's going on at Stevens High School. As our class of 2016 soon to be graduates are preparing  for their their graduation day, which is June 9th.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So that is more for an FYI. I'm also pleased to remind the board that as a result of of Stevens High School administration myself working with the Stevens High

[8433-22] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: that have occurred and are still being planned tomorrow night, for example. The desired elementary school is having a concert at 630. So it's a very, very busy time of the year. And last but certainly not least, I emailed you about an hour ago.
TEXT> A New Hampshire  Public Radio,  article, how Schools are becoming the New Safety Nets for New Hampshire's Media Students. And I shared I shared this article with you because research is now showing more clearly that stress from poverty or other pressures at home can have a major limiting impact on the chances of students succeeding academically and ultimately  their long term quality of life. And so,  we've had a discussion, if you recall, back in the fall regarding social workers. And the theme was, we wanted to have students be in a better position to learn by addressing certain needs and issues. Clearly, there is,   a financial  component of that. But what we are hoping to do, and I look forward to meeting  the school board. Claremont School Board meeting with the  Claremont City Council,  in partnership with others to start addressing  this issue.  Because poverty is not just about our students, it is about our city. And it has a major impact  on many components of it. And this is something that I believe we   need to address.  It's our responsibility to address. It's not someone else's responsibility to resolve. So I look forward to that. Working with Mayor Charlene Leavitt, Guy San Diego and the City Council. It's it's a it's a non-negotiable. And it may not be an overnight, but we we have to confront that and to chip away at it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Thank you. Everybody. Citizens comments tonight.

[8433-40] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: Anything else for. Nope. Okay.
TEXT> Well, you know, I, I let me just, if I may,  last week there  we, we had some challenges with the length of the grass in one of our athletic fields.  I  was given  a heads up on that.  I was approached by a couple of parents by email.  I was able to. Working with the director of maintenance  and take care of that matter. He had, the night before, hired a part time person to address it. It was it was addressed. And I was able to reach out to to the,  the parents of the children who participated in that middle school sport. So we do take it. We don't take anything for granted. And when when there are problems that really are adult responsibilities and we identify them, we try to move quickly. I'm not being defensive saying that, but,  we do not  minimize the impact of children being ready to compete on a Saturday and keen and not having transportation.  But once again, the goal is how do we avoid that in the future?
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Yeah.

[8433-56] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Couple other.
TEXT> Pieces of information that you might be interested in knowing. In regard to class of 2016 post-graduation plans.  You can see there that we've conducted a survey, a post graduation survey out of the 118 seniors that we have this year, 80 of completed the survey. So this is a representation of that data. It's not raw data, meaning it does not include all 118 seniors.  So of the 80 that completed the survey, we're looking at 32 students that are that plan to go on to attend a four year college or university. You can see a list of colleges and universities there. 25 students plan to attend a two year school.  21 of the students noted above,  our first generation college students and 23 students planned to join the workforce and included a fancy graph there for those that prefer. I know Mike prefers that. So,  moving up to the next agenda item we have, Catch the Wave. On May 20th, we had  our representative  or not our representative, but a representative from River Valley, Eric came to the school. He met with 14 of our students.  Those students received the enrollment materials. And he, you know, had consult time with all of them. They asked questions and so forth. But at this point, I don't know exactly how many of the students, you know, took River Valley up on that offer, which is a nice opportunity for students to earn college credit.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Next agenda item. That we added here is information on SAT. And and what we can report out at this time is that we had 100 plus students take the

[8433-57] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Ben Nester: consult time with all of them. They asked questions and so forth. But at this point, I don't know exactly how many of the students, you know, took River Valley up on that offer, which is a nice opportunity for students to earn college credit.
TEXT> Next agenda item.  That we added here is information on SAT. And and  what we can report out at this time is that we had 100 plus students take the SAT. Out of the 114 students in the junior class, the state or the state had originally intended to put out the the data statewide  on May 18th or before that time, but we we don't have that yet, so we can't really compare our student scores to the state averages. So at this point, I didn't bring that info with me.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Has there been any word from the state?

[8433-63] Ben Nester | Stevens High School administrator overseeing guidance and college plan | 2016-06-01
PREV> Ben Nester: would say around 2020, plus colleges from around the state come and set up tables in the gymnasium, and then students were able to come cycle through, pick up information, ask questions and, and, you know, get a sense of colleges that are out there.
TEXT> And there's these were primarily New Hampshire colleges.  The other the other big event was more recent, May 27th,  20 plus juniors took a bus down to Keene State and there were 50 or more colleges represented there. So that was a exciting opportunity for them.  It was open to all all juniors, the May 27th event, and we did have 60 plus, which was more than half of the students attend. But, you know, one of the things that that we you know, now that I feel like I have my feet under me a little bit more this year, is we're going to start to try to bring in the sophomores next year. And, you know, even the freshmen, just to sort of put the college piece on their radar. So, yeah.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, you know, I'm glad Ben said what he just said, because in all fairness to Ben and our new counseling staff, and by the way, tonight we're

[8433-64] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Ben Nester: I have my feet under me a little bit more this year, is we're going to start to try to bring in the sophomores next year. And, you know, even the freshmen, just to sort of put the college piece on their radar. So, yeah.
TEXT> If I may, you know, I'm glad Ben said what he just said, because in all fairness to Ben and our new counseling staff, and by the way, tonight we're going to talk about our third edition to the counseling staff with the retirement of Rebecca,  our counseling colleagues walked into these these challenges. I had brought this up about the desire to increase the number of students who are having specific targets, targets aside from work,  and also the importance of the middle school and the high school working more closely together in this conversation, starting at the middle school. So in all fairness to our counseling staff and Ben Nester,  they hit the ground learning about past practice and about what's been going on. And Ben has already set some sites with our counseling colleagues about the future. So this will be a continued conversation  regarding Castle Wave, regarding,   the exposure to our to our students, to opportunities beyond, beyond or after graduation. And this is a this is a big step forward. And I look forward to that conversation continuing. So Ben, thank you. And please share my my thoughts to you,  our colleagues. Because if the work in progress. But I'm optimistic with the caliber of people we have and the investment  that we're going to see this expanding.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I just had one question about your 80 students took the test. Was it a survey that all of the seniors were required to take, or was it just participating?

[8433-68] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: About 100.
TEXT> So a little over 100. So we weren't able to capture the entire junior class.  And that's something that we're taking a look at going forward is how do we how do we ensure that every single junior takes the SAT, whether the first day or on the makeup day? And we we reached out in multiple ways.  The big portion of the students who  opted out and made a decision not to take that test were in the Owls program. So we're we're putting language in the contract for the Owls program next year, stating that the expectation and the the maintain maintenance of the eligibility in the program will be based in part on their participation all state and national assessments, just like any other student at the high school. So those are the kinds of things that, as we live through them and we're seeing holes in the system we're trying to address by.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So we have 38 seniors that we don't know what they're doing pretty much.

[8433-80] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: know, some of the sometimes some of those plans. But yeah, the workforce is another one. Just seeing kind of what data we can find about, you know, where what some of those plans are because some, some can be good plans. I'm just curious.
TEXT> Yeah. And I think that would be valuable. Because I, a good chunk of those kids are going to be students coming out of the tech center who have their HVAC certification, or are you going to go be great off into being electricians? So absolutely, that would be valuable information.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I certainly, if I may, Brian, I this conversation I never intended that workforce is like the leftovers. There's nothing wrong with the workforce as as you just heard. I

[8433-82] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: not in the slice for the reasons that just been cited. I mean, especially with some of the trades and the need for for good, you know, skilled men and women in the trades, great opportunities in this part of the of of our country.
TEXT> And one of the things on this sheet, I think to me, the the number that I am most proud of and I say  I because, you know, the guidance department did the work. The 21 of these students are first generation going to college. And that to me speaks volumes of the kind of work because that's difficult to to get a first generation student feeling comfortable getting them to to step over that barrier, you know, they don't have the experience to call on from their parents. Everything is brand new. Getting the financial aid. It's really there's so many obstacles and barriers in their way.  So for 21 of them to to make that journey is that that's the number that I really think should be highlighted.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So when I circled actually.

[8433-89] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's too.
TEXT> Bad it is. And but that was the same way last year. That was when the vast majority of available was going to open up for our kids. It was always going to be difficult for them to, you know, get down to the college in between in the middle of a school day and have the times match up where they were going to be able to leave and not miss class and come back and not miss class on the other end. So we we knew going in that the times were going to be after 205 and weekends.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do they have to go up to the River Valley campus or can they take them at Granite State as well?

[8433-203] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: it there are several different factors that that were having an effect on the budget for this year. There were, if you look at the third bullet down there were for students who, as of July 1st last year, went to out of district placement.
TEXT> There had been changed in the in the spring and they, they, they were on their way. And so there was a gap between when the budget was being developed and when these guys went out to out of district placement. And that is always sort of the tricky thing with these guys is I walked into this July 1st and there were four kids that went to out of district placement who were completely budgeted for, you know, costing the district $350,000. And that was just a that was just to get going. We also happened this year is we had four move ins from kids from other communities. Could be Manchester, Nashua, you know, Newport. And when those kids come and they move into our community and they're already in out of district placement, we become the district of liability, which means that we are now responsible for their special education costs. So you take those two factors right there. The four kids who are budgeted for, plus the four movies this year, you're well over $500,000 in costs.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: A couple.

[8433-234] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brent Ferland: we've got to take care of it. My question is going to be most of the all of these out of districts are special ed, from an educational standpoint. I mean, do we have like a discipline issue with that district or is it usually.
TEXT> It will run the gamut. We have some,  we have some really involved, significant  kiddos with severe cognitive disabilities who are very, very involved.  We also have we also have some kids who who have some significant behavioral challenges, mental health challenges. And I think one of the, the, the lenses that we always try to look at things through is, is, is safety and and is are the kids,  are we going to be able to meet their needs in, in these programs, in, in our programs. And. And on the other kids in this, these kids are going to be safe. And so when kids come back from, if they move in from let's say we look at our for move ins, we will always sort of take a look at our out of district coordinator. We'll take a look at that IEP when it comes in, because we have to  take a look at that. And we will look at the where the kiddo is currently placed, what program they're placed, and then try to match that particular kid to a program that's here in  Claremont.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: And how quickly does that process take place?

[8433-240] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Brian Rapp: And how quickly, when that review was done, how quickly can where the student goes change?
TEXT> It? Can it can happen. It would have to be a  an IEP meeting that would include include everybody. But I think Dave sort of takes a takes a first look at it and says, you know, I think that in the best interest of this kid and and where he's at, given his particular educational needs, the best place for him is to continue in that placement. And  we're not I mean, these guys are in some pretty heavy hitting, out of district placements, right? We're talking.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I guess my question would be if there was a student that we felt that we had that for, how quickly would that.

[8433-272] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: need to start really, really talking about this and really get this out to their taxpayers because they're the ones that eventually are going to make the decision someday that says, yes, we want a place here or we want to keep sending them out.
TEXT> First of all, I disagree with sending. My child was sent out of the system ten years ago, and I had a hard time with it every day. I drove it and took it twice a day. I didn't like that. I didn't like having to do that. I didn't like the fact that my daughter felt like she was alienated, that she felt like she wasn't part of a community. I don't like the idea that we shipped those children out and that we can't have them here because they are our community and we're trying to reestablish community. We're trying to work together as a school system with the city. Now. We're trying to bring this whole thing together and become a community. So I'm asking these questions, and I'm sounding maybe even a little blunt about it, but I want to I want to get it out there. I want to get people talking about we need this here as opposed to, well, let's just keep paying. What is it $174,000 for for students? Was that correct? $174,000 for four students.
NEXT> Chris: For four students who moved in over this year. And, and then an additional four students at 174. And then there were four additional students for 300.

[8433-283] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: Probably.
TEXT> So I'm wondering, I don't know who these kids are. You probably do and what their needs are. How many staff members would we need to properly service those eight kids?
NEXT> Brent Ferland: Quarters of $1 million worth.

[8433-291] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Frank Sprague. Yes.' in the no | 2016-06-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: I think I'm I think I'm hearing your question a little differently than Chris is.
TEXT> These kids are severe enough that they're not here.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Oh, absolutely.

[8433-298] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (Speaker 1: 'like Middleton said' [58]; delivers | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: More than what we're spending.
TEXT> We don't we as you know, Frank, we don't send out a district because of convenient. We send out a district because the cost to keep them in district  out of the district is not something we like. But as taxpayers dollars we're trying to be have to meet the needs of the child.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: But that's not necessarily true. You just said that you had to have four of them come in here, and you had to follow what they had to come in

[8433-304] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Depends on the need.
TEXT> Depends on the. So I hear what you're saying. If we had if we had a long term solution in place for let's say that all program and it was on its own campus as some of these kids come, come back, we we could bring them back. The problem. The problem is, is that bringing them back and putting them into Stevens High School is not a is not a that is not that is not a solution.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I get that.

[8433-306] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: I get that.
TEXT> Yeah. So and having worked in an alternative Ed, we had, we generally had to do a 4 to 1 ratio if we wanted to go out and we needed to be able to get them outside and break them up. But, Yeah, I, I kind of agree with Frank.  Frank is raising a very relevant question. Because, Some of these students are I, I could  imagine some of these students that not all the students would necessarily have to have I piece to be an alternative or to be to be an alternate, sometimes an alternative program. But you're correct when we you yes. When you I think look at the students that have to be there usually out of placement. And the more you start combining those students into a program,  it can. Yeah. It can it it it it's very hard to kind of put a number on because it.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Gets more complicated.

[8433-317] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: which was out in a hangar, an old hangar at the at the Deering airport. And the committee came up with the bottom line was a it was working because it wasn't in the high school and it wasn't in any other regular educational building.
TEXT> Number one, be it was working because it was fully staffed. And I'll get to what does that mean in a second? See, it was working because the staff that was there created a separate but,  unique culture for those kids where they did not feel like they had been abandoned or were disassociated from the district. And as a matter of fact, they created their own school. It was theirs. They owned it. They they were proud about it. And they identified themselves with being in that building. And they wanted to be there to the point where parents in the eighth grade were advocating with administration to put their students in the Alt program, because they already could see that my child's going to be more successful there than than in the high school. So what a lot of these Pinkerton and Hillsborough I'm going to use just because they're front and center in my head. If you have a program director who has the behavioral background so that that person  is overseeing the entire program, is doing the staffing, is doing all of that, and you have four core educators for your four core disciplines, and you've got two powers.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: That's what it would take to run a program. And then you use the resources in your in the rest of your district, your school, your district psychologist, or you

[8433-318] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: If you have a program director who has the behavioral background so that that person is overseeing the entire program, is doing the staffing, is doing all of that, and you have four core educators for your four core disciplines, and you've got two powers.
TEXT> That's what it would take to run a program. And then you use the resources in your in the rest of your district, your school, your district psychologist, or you use your crisis counselor and you cycle those people, and you cycle in art  and PE, and you use other resources like Odyssey where and V Lacs to supplement that core curriculum. But that's that's kind of the foundational requirements to make it work. And the recommendation they made was don't change a thing, leave it where it is, if anything, because some kids and you also want to give kids the option if they want to take a class in the high school, they should be near enough so they can bounce over to the high school and take that art class or photography or theater. Right? So they said, even better than being out endearing. What we would recommend, because there was a nice big meadow behind the high school. Get a modular, get a double wide modular that has four classrooms and at least one bathroom in there. It's Ada compliant and put it in the back part of that meadow. So there's distance and room for those kids to a be outside and vent and do what they need to do without being disruptive next to the high school.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And they can walk if they need to, to the high school to access resources there. That didn't end up getting followed through. They're still at Dearing. And but that

[8433-346] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (minute taker: 'Brant, you made the moti | 2016-06-01
PREV> Chris: even want to take as I look through again this article, I may want to get in touch with, the folks who Manchester has, has, has talked with as well, who gave them a proposal, just as another avenue to continue to to look at.
TEXT> Another thought that I'm having is we think of all programs for kind of the bottom end of the spectrum. Have we looked at maybe doing a lot programs for the top end of the spectrum, where we would spend less per student on some of these more gifted kids, kind of give them a less than. I mean, is there a ways to work around that, get them out of the classroom quicker, kind of move them through the system a little faster? Then we're not spending as much money on those students, which would then free up resources to spend on the stuff on the lower end. Because I can think I mean, I see some really talented, gifted students come through Claremont that, you know, it might be kind of is there a way to work at the. Yeah, let's get them out of the classroom and working on after school job at one, rather than have them sit around for an extra couple of hours and kind of reward that initiative. Because if we can, I mean, in dollars and cents wise, if we get them out of the building quicker, we can take those resources and that money and put it back into somebody else that might need it more. I mean, is that possible with the way that educational laws are structured, or they have to have a certain amount of seat time before we can send them on their way?
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Just just thinking about it.

[8433-353] Patrick Adrian | Claremont School Board member (superintendent answers 'Patrick' [45, 4 | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patrick Adrian: a very different culture and not having and where they got not something sometimes they got such a top quality education. I seen it where those students took were able to take more responsibility in owning their school than adults can do, and it would.
TEXT> And the reason it it can happen when they allowed to do so.  And it's it's really hard when you have reentry programs because they're always looking at the kids, always kind of looking at their program, as  you know, with a sense of guilt or shame. And it's not what it has to be. But but okay. Anyways, two quick thoughts. One was, I've seen. A. Sometimes, you know, I just remember a program that was made up of many programs.  But that was also, again, it was a nonprofit group that kind of took out district students. But the other. Again. Is it possible this is my main question is, is it possible for the kind of some of the things we need to do to remain local districts, but to kind of create a to kind of have an inter-district,  school because the, the community that we're serving just in this area just seems it, it's been on my mind for some time  and it's I think every district has these needs. And I sometimes wonder, is it is it that something that's feasible. And because it could it's not just about the money, it's about wanting to have a program that works and not make it. Because I, I've seen where some of these programs, you can create great schools and the kids get so much out of them. And that's really what I'd like to see.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I think that's what I think. That's what we have in mind. And I'm glad to hear you continue to talk about that, because it is something that I would

[8433-357] Chris | Special Education Director, SAU 6; first name only on record (superint | 2016-06-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Just just Claremont.
TEXT> Pomona and,  and and it was together for a couple of years and then, you know, eventually unraveled. And at this point, I neighbors to the north and, and neighbors to the south, and there is no interest in pursuing that kind of a program at this point.  But, you know, again, we'll continue to look for creative ways to bring some of these kids home, because I think that we all firmly believe that if we can educate them here in our own community, that is what's in the best interest for them.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: You know, I will share with you bring closure to this conversation, though, that we've had this discussion. We, the southwestern superintendents, have had this very discussion because this this

[8433-359] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: need, but geographically it not realistic. But we we we are not. I don't want anyone to think that we are done looking and we're done seeking alternatives. We are not because we it's it's impossible to just be to placate this and we'll continue.
TEXT> When you be nice. If we could have Manchester be able to say to me and Chester that we have a facility that might be able to offer some of those children an alternative here, that we will, we could be the same stone setter. We can be the the one school system that says that we're going to look at the emotional side of things. Most of the kids in this, in this area, they need a place where it's safe. They need to know that they're safe. They need to know they're going to get a meal. They need to know they're not going to be moved around next week. Because a lot of these kids in our area, they move around a lot. They don't know if they're going to get fed or not. So it and that's not even the special ed kids. That's not even the special ed kids. That's that's that's children in my  area where I live in my village. So, so  I'm excited because in the next three years, I want a champion to help see that happen. I want us to be the city that makes a difference, that our school system says we're going to do something different.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: We're going to go out there, we're going to find the best thing, and we're going to make it. And then we're going to say to Manchester, hey, why don't

[8433-382] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: So that.
TEXT> So that means 25% of our children are looking at special needs situations, IEPs. And that's not even some of the people that even understand or know what that stuff is, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[8433-384] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: Correct.
TEXT> Okay. So that's a lot. So we so we definitely it signifies the emotional needs that we need to start meeting with the children is signifying that our community needs to come together and unify for these children so that they do have a place to feel safe. So they do have a place they can eat. I believe that the community has already started working on trying to have food spot drop offs this summer. I'm one of them that children will be able to come get things to eat all summer long, drinks to eat. So there's stuff happening everywhere and it's great. Just want to update, you know, keep, keep that conversation constantly going about this so that maybe somebody out there tonight watching and says, hey, by God, I've got a piece of land, let's do this. You know, maybe somebody will step forward in the community and say, I want to be a part of this.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Let's actually had that happen. Earlier this week, last week, my week spent together community member. Unfortunately, the square footage they had available was not enough for what we need.

[8433-460] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Patricia Barry: need to do when they're on duty. And so, you know, they were doing their job. But that was his campaign workers coming in. Secret service came in earlier that day already and was setting up. And the the gym was off limits for us.
TEXT> So with the children, they were interfering with everything and we charge them $250. I think we should come up with, as you suggested, a great thing that says if you're above the community as far as forum,  that larger events, whether it's a concert and Steven Tyler wants to come back to his school and do a concert, you know damn well, but it's going to be.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Which is why.

[8433-463] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Michelle Pierce: You never know.
TEXT> Which is. Why we suggested to that to any campaign that called us. We tried to get them to come during the school day, because that's the history of campaigns coming to Claremont and to Stephen's High School. And I felt very strongly that this was a great opportunity for our students to become politically involved and to see somebody live, and that's how it's always been done. It's never been a night event that wasn't an option for them. So, you know, I think that's another thing. If it's happening during the school day and you want to involve the students, that would be a different rate. But if you want to use it at night and you want to use all our facilities in our personnel for that length of time, well, now you're talking kind of a different stratosphere of usage.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: So yeah. And I have to say is he I, I think it's, you know, an amazing leap, unique, experience that we have in Claremont to be able to have

[8433-467] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (superintendent: 'Michelle, if you have  | 2016-06-01
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: the the board that was in place during this process wanted to continue the heritage of, of the city by welcoming, Mr. Trump wanted to have an evening event, not an I say event, quote unquote. It was an event. And, the rest is history.
TEXT> Great. So he didn't even want to come during when the when it has been a historical thing for the kids in Claremont to be a part of. He couldn't come here and show the respect that every other, every single following president and every other candidate is done. He had to be different and come in here and take over the school at night. So we should have been charging more for that or have it in system in place. So we can.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Can we can have it, I think.

[8433-527] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: Well.
TEXT> On a couple of issues. First of all, we have a number of restrooms that are our single entry restrooms, and students in the building know where they are and that they can access them.  They're not just for administration. You know, the one that's in the administrative section. There's one in the nurses, there's one downstairs. So there's a number of single restroom options for students to use. Having said that,  the students at Stevens are they know each other. They all know who's who. Not to say that everyone is out or that everyone is even has self-identified what they are.  My  concern would be that when you place a label or a definition on anything, it it becomes just that it becomes a label. And we're talking about not just transgender, we're talking about, identity confusion. There's a whole there's so many other areas that this bleeds into for, for students. And I think it just comes down as Doctor Goodwin saying it's a common sense to knowing our students, to providing them with options for talking to us, you know, sharing what they're comfortable sharing with us, or the crisis counselor, guidance counselor, nurse,  and then and letting them know that we're there to help them in whatever way we can.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Having said that, if you have someone who's somewhere where they're not supposed to be as an administrator, you deal with it like any other misbehavior. And you, you you

[8433-545] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (welcomed as 'Pat Berry' [74]; Sprague: | 2016-06-01
PREV> Unidentified: The thought and I.
TEXT> Think, I think we're a better place to maybe address it might be in our student handbook. And I think you bring up a really good point, because I think it's a good idea for us to say, to put in some language about what our expectations are in our school and what we expect students to do on, on their behalf as far as accessing different facilities. So I would I would be interested in looking at some verbiage to put in our student handbook, which would identify our expectations around student behavior and the use of bathrooms and communication with administration. And that might, I think, be a softer,  approach versus having to put some kind of a policy into.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And legally a student handbook really is policy.

[8558-3] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Approve the minutes. Thank you. I'll second. Thank you. All in favor? Opposed? Thank you. And superintendents report. Thank you. Thank you. And good evening. I have several items.
TEXT> I'm going to be moving up pretty quickly, however. You know, we're into the month of August, and there's been a lot of press,  some of it.  We'll be talking about today. But there's also a great opportunity  that oftentimes the press doesn't pick up on. And so I'd like to share with you some some great things that are going on. We recently received notification from the the Party of Education that we have been awarded  a fund grant  of in the amount of $35,000 each of the three years of the funding  cycle, and we are going to be in receipt of McKinney Vento federal funds. These are not automatic disbursements. This is a competitive grant.  The highest amount is 35,000. It's based on  our strong community involvement. The fact that we have social services tied to education goals, as well as the high need of our student population and homeless, that we have been awarded this a three year competitive grant, and it supports our homeless population directly. It's very pleased about that  and more will be forthcoming. Coryell Clare is at a Department of Ed  conference with some of our colleagues, teaching colleagues for the next couple of days.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So I'm standing in on behalf of her. We also received a note on behalf of the Nail Education Foundation, the Great Schools Partnership, and Everyday Democracy. We are being

[8558-4] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: this a three year competitive grant, and it supports our homeless population directly. It's very pleased about that and more will be forthcoming. Coryell Clare is at a Department of Ed conference with some of our colleagues, teaching colleagues for the next couple of days.
TEXT> So I'm standing in on behalf of her. We also received a note on behalf of the Nail Education Foundation, the Great Schools Partnership, and Everyday Democracy.  We are being awarded.  We've been selected to participate in being awarded in our regional community Engagement initiative. This is a Nellie May Education Foundation and community engagement initiative. This is also a three year community engagement, $10,000 per year, and is going to allow us to put a particular focus on early childhood education. Also on, as you know, in your on our agenda, we've talked about it for a couple of months. On August 9th,  the Claremont City Council and the Claremont School Board will meet here. Tuesday, August 9th at 6 p.m..  It's a very important meeting.  It's going to be the beginning of, I hope will be a multi-year partnership. The theme behind this meeting  is going to be to discuss the school's issues, discuss the city's issues, and then what are  our priorities? What are our joint priorities? And that's going to take some time, because there are issues and challenges that the school district faces that the city and the school council faces. So why not partner and work together  to address those?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And there'll be more discussion about that. Brian Wrap myself. Charlene Lovett, the mayor and city manager, will be meeting next Monday morning. To review the agenda. And I look

[8558-6] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: is the New Hampshire criminal offense record check. In the past, after the state police performed the criminal history record check on a person being considered for employment in a school district, the state police were only allowed to report only convictions of specific felonies.
TEXT> And it's important to note that that may seem sufficient, but it is not uncommon for felonious charges to be pled down to misdemeanors in the court system. As a result, this information is never reported to the school district. And sadly enough, this compromises the safety of our students and our staff. So the new RSA now will no longer be focusing on felonies. It will be focusing on crimes. And so an individual who has had certain felonies pled down. It will still be a parent. As I've said publicly before, we are not looking for the perfect person, but we are looking to ensure that our candidates have a background that is type of person we want in our schools. The, the  superintendents, by the way, are the only individuals who can see the criminal defense record information  that is released from the Department of Safety. So this is an example of an envelope that superintendents in New Hampshire are receiving from the Department of Safety, and it says confidential on it, which means that only superintendents can open it. And the reason being is that there was a lot of resistance against this bill the first year it was defeated. This past year it was passed with the understanding that this information would not be common to all, even though it never has been.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The perception was a lot of individuals will know about persons private business. So when you open the letter, it says stop. And it says for a superintendent, chief Executive

[8558-7] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: And the reason being is that there was a lot of resistance against this bill the first year it was defeated. This past year it was passed with the understanding that this information would not be common to all, even though it never has been.
TEXT> The perception was a lot of individuals will know about persons private business. So when you open the letter, it says stop. And it says for a superintendent, chief Executive Officer, eyes only. When I talked with Senator Molly Kelly in early January, there was a great deal of concern that the privacy of individuals would be compromised, and that I agreed that it would be in the best interest if we compromise on our side by having only superintendents look at this. There's some angst from some superintendents about the additional work. I think students safety is our top priority. So 30, 40 minutes every other day to open up these envelopes to be sure we're hiring the right people. I can live with that. And I think  my other colleagues, a fellow superintendents, can as well. Let me just give you an example of how important this is. The current criminal record. Check the current one prior years. These are examples of how the current excuse me, the past criminal defense record process would be problematic. Criminal threatening, simple assault. We never knew of, simple assault. We never knew of criminal threatening because many cases were pled down so we would know about it. Failure to report injuries, including sexual assault.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: An example of being pled down, even student hazing and the current the prior criminal criminal records check also did not disclose misdemeanor. Misdemeanor theft doesn't rise to the level

[8558-8] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: me, the past criminal defense record process would be problematic. Criminal threatening, simple assault. We never knew of, simple assault. We never knew of criminal threatening because many cases were pled down so we would know about it. Failure to report injuries, including sexual assault.
TEXT> An example of being pled down, even student hazing and the current the prior criminal criminal records check also did not disclose misdemeanor. Misdemeanor theft doesn't rise to the level of a felony, and many felony theft cases were pled down to misdemeanor theft and thus not reported.  I have no interest in superintendent of the schools, have no interest in the privacy of New Hampshire citizens. But we have all the interest to know that we're hiring the type of men and women in our district that we want with our children, that we want with our colleagues. So, that being said, I am very, very pleased  that with the with the work of not just myself but many residents in the city of Claremont, our state reps, New Hampshire School Board Association, New Hampshire State Police,  among others,  help support this. And now we're in place.  There's no guarantee with anything we do, but at least we have another layer of information. And to me, that is so, so critical. And so the travesty that occurred  in March of 2014,  and the not being aware of this individual background when he was hired in August 2013, now will become a thing of the past.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And last but not least, on August 30th, the Cornish, Claremont and Unity staff are going to be participating in a welcome back presentation. There's going to be an unprecedented

[8558-9] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: layer of information. And to me, that is so, so critical. And so the travesty that occurred in March of 2014, and the not being aware of this individual background when he was hired in August 2013, now will become a thing of the past.
TEXT> And last but not least,  on August 30th, the Cornish, Claremont and Unity staff are going to be participating in a welcome back presentation. There's going to be an unprecedented presentation to all our staff, one that has never been seen before. And aside from the the media, we also are going to be clarifying what our focus and what our goals are for our students that will be measurable and will be reported district wide saw six wide. These goals are not new, but now  we're going to out of the gate that our goal for this particular group of children and this particular subject will be that percentage of growth. And knowing that not all children are in the same playing field, but we're going to be able to measure, we're going to be able to report out, and we're going to be able to address where there are gaps. And this is going to be ongoing. So we're not going to be waiting for a smarter balanced assessment, or we're not going to be waiting  or in the past practice of for report cards, but this will be ongoing discussion. And parents, faculty and students will have more targets and be able to measure their their child progress, their students progress and be able to respond to that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So August 30th, I welcome the school board members to please attend that presentation. This work was done by the administrative team in late June and early July. With our

[8558-22] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: How about it?
TEXT> Have at it the. Albert Einstein seems to get credited with this, although we don't necessarily know if it's true, but that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result. And this just brings to mind what is going on with this whole scheduling discussion. And since I was a part of the initiative to change our schedule,  I thought it worthwhile to come back and give a little bit of history and also try and give a little bit of backbone to what's going on here with the schedule. When we started to have conversation on the scheduling, we were shown some information when Middleton first came on board and I think he shared it again. But I think it's worthwhile to share a couple of the numbers that came out of it. This data happens to be from the school year of ten, 11, 20, 20, 10 to 2011, and the same date is available to everyone going back before then. It's in a pivot table and you can pull this all up 22.5%. 22.5% of the students at Stevens High School at that time failed at least one class in that. Let's just sort of pick out some of the some of the more interesting points. Algebra one 23.5%.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Civics. Boy, this would drive Richard Madigan nuts for people who sat with him on the board. 30.6% of our students failed civics, 20% failed English, 926% failed English, 1,011%

[8558-23] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: table and you can pull this all up 22.5%. 22.5% of the students at Stevens High School at that time failed at least one class in that. Let's just sort of pick out some of the some of the more interesting points. Algebra one 23.5%.
TEXT> Civics. Boy, this would drive Richard Madigan nuts for people who sat with him on the board. 30.6% of our students failed civics, 20% failed English, 926% failed English, 1,011% failed English, 1,129% failed geometry 21.6 failed lab physical science. Whereas what's interesting is advanced lab physical science. None of them failed U.S. history 25%. These numbers are compelling. They were compelling back then. They're compelling. As you're going through the discussion right now, the issue related to. The schedule takes you back to Einstein one more time. If we take the kids and throw them through the same schedule, we will get different results.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We have a member of the public speaker and pay attention. Thank you.

[8558-25] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: We have a member of the public speaker and pay attention. Thank you.
TEXT> Well, most of this actually, I think is a certain amount to the board and a lot of it is to the public, and most of it is to the parents of kids who are coming in next year as freshmen and next year's who was coming in as seniors. So I'll get around to my point on that one. We as. A board, and I still say we as a member of having been on the board, have a very unique responsibility. The board's responsibility is not. And I've said this and I've gotten you know, I push back on is not to the taxpayers, it's not to the teachers, it's not to Middleton. It's not the board is focused on the kids. It's the only board that you can get on where you have a unique group that you're focused on, which are the kids? Number one. Number two, you can't stop them from moving along. You can't tell your third graders, hey, we'll figure out the schedule next year. Hang tight. We'll get you into fourth grade a couple of years down the road.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Once we figure it out, it's this dynamic process that must be addressed. But your audience is one. The people who helped the board be successful is large, but the

[8558-26] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: on, which are the kids? Number one. Number two, you can't stop them from moving along. You can't tell your third graders, hey, we'll figure out the schedule next year. Hang tight. We'll get you into fourth grade a couple of years down the road.
TEXT> Once we figure it out, it's this dynamic process that must be addressed. But your audience is one. The people who helped the board be successful is large, but the audience is one. So let's just go back a little bit. Pat Barry came on board and asked one of the great questions. And that question is still there now, and it's there for the board. It's there for the teachers. It's all the way through. It's the current block schedule meeting the needs of all Stephen's high School students. Simple question. And then she headed out amongst other schools and talking with the teachers and talking with parents and everyone else. And most importantly, we talked to our students at the end of every year and ask the seniors, what is your opinion of your experience at Stevens? So what did the students, what have they said? And this goes back, you know, a decade and a half  of having these meetings. What does students say? There's lack of accountability. There's low expectations for students. Teachers need to expect more from us, more focus on on basics. We need four years of English. We need to write more often.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We need four years of bath. We need better prep for college. We need more honors and AP classes. We need more academically challenging opportunities. We need to be pushed.

[8558-27] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: decade and a half of having these meetings. What does students say? There's lack of accountability. There's low expectations for students. Teachers need to expect more from us, more focus on on basics. We need four years of English. We need to write more often.
TEXT> We need four years of bath. We need better prep for college. We need more honors and AP classes. We need more academically challenging opportunities. We need to be pushed. We're not pushed as hard as we could have been. Higher expectations are needed. These are the kids saying it to the board members and to the superintendents at the time. This is what we want out of our school. And yet the schedule is giving the kind of results that none of us can be proud of, and we're letting them down. So what happened after that is Pat got together with a whole range. We had several school board meetings. We had several meetings with teachers, with faculty, both with board, without board all the way through. And we had several public forums. And I can tell you we had the public forum because I was at them, along with my wife and I were along with Chris Terrell, and we were the only three that ever showed up at any of the public forums that were going on at that time to discuss the schedule, the pros and cons, and what was trying to take place.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: What are we hearing back on the current schedule that has only been in place for one year? It's too hard on the kids. Is one of the messages too

[8558-28] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: and I were along with Chris Terrell, and we were the only three that ever showed up at any of the public forums that were going on at that time to discuss the schedule, the pros and cons, and what was trying to take place.
TEXT> What are we hearing back on the current schedule that has only been in place for one year? It's too hard on the kids. Is one of the messages too hard on the kids? Yet the kids are saying, push us harder. I have two children that went through Stevens. One was our valedictorian and one graduated in the top ten. The valedictorian went on to college and his comment back was I was not well prepared coming out of Stevens. They didn't work me hard enough. The kids that I was up against at WPI had been worked harder, were better prepared, were better prepared to work in college and to be successful. And he would come here and tell you the same thing. Angelica graduated last year and she worked incredibly hard. She had 3 to 4 hours of homework per night. She took all the AP classes, and she worked incredibly hard and at times I almost felt sorry. Geez, you're not really enjoying your senior year, but she came out of it and said, I think I'm going to be ready for going on to college.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: It's okay. I feel as if I've been prepared for it. Part of that is the schedule that we put into place. Was it hard on the adults that are

[8558-30] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: starts up, get together with the teachers, bring them in, sit down, find out the issue and work this thing out. Could you picture if your child was a junior last year under one schedule and the senior this coming year under a different schedule?
TEXT> And then how are you going to explain that to a college when you're applying to a college, you think we're doing the kids good service on that one. We are not. Can you picture a freshman coming into the school who's going to now be under a different schedule and has no idea the classes they're going to be taking, but they know that the results of the old schedule  are terrible and under-performed. Are we serving our kids well in that one? You can't allow this to go forward. It's not going to happen legally. It's going to happen by you and the teachers. Find a way to get together, have an emergency meeting. If you can't have an emergency meeting, hold off on opening school. Just don't open it under a new schedule one more time. When the schedule you have there, as Einstein has said, is trying to get different result out of exactly the same thing that was going on before. This is not this is not something that, you know, requires a lot of discussion and debate. The old one didn't work. People will ask, is a new one working? Becky will tell me.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: I'm absolutely certain that one year of data or one data point is not a trend. We don't know if it's working. What we know is the old one didn't

[8558-31] Richard Seaman | Public commenter, Ward 3; former Claremont School Board member and cha | 2016-08-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: out of exactly the same thing that was going on before. This is not this is not something that, you know, requires a lot of discussion and debate. The old one didn't work. People will ask, is a new one working? Becky will tell me.
TEXT> I'm absolutely certain that one year of data or one data point is not a trend. We don't know if it's working. What we know is the old one didn't work and the new one is trying to work, and it hasn't placed something like an intervention period, which everyone believes is exactly the thing that our kids need to have. We're throwing that out also. Board, you have got to find a way to get together with the teachers. You've got to find a way to simmer down to what the 2 or 3 key issues are in here that driving people nuts, or causing issues, or causing angst and fix it before you go in in the next school year starts at the end of this month, you've got to find a way to retain the schedule and not go back to one that has already failed. Pretty clear.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. Anybody else? Public comment? Seeing none, we'll close. Public comment. Discussion items. We have updates. Claremont Summer Food Service Program.

[8558-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: it's important to note that the official poverty rate in 2009 was 14.3%. That's up from 13.2 in 2008. The number of people in poverty in 2009 represents 43.6 million, is the largest number in the 51 years in which poverty estimates have been published.
TEXT> So I think what's critical to note is this that  many volunteers and with the work of of local agencies and many of these volunteers or teachers or administration and parents  every day are committing themselves to assist what is described as food insecure children. That's almost beyond imagination, food insecure, but it's very real. And so I think I just want to compliment and really send accolades to to the adults involved with this. Supporting our children and providing  them the issuance of nourishing meals during the month of June, July and through August.  A free healthy lunch for every child living in Claremont. That should be a given. That should be a guarantee. That should be something that every child shouldn't even think about. Not so. So we can talk about the Claremont some of food service program,  and you might see it posted on some of our schools and billboards. But I just wanted to remind you of the great things that are happening for the benefit of our children. Thank you Brian.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Thank you. All right. Moving forward. Do you have any questions for the superintendent? Do we have. Any updated.

[8558-45] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Michael Neil', 'Mr. O'Neal'; spell | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: and his background in business as well as construction. I think we did quite well for the money available. And Mike is going to be the board as to where we are with Maple Leaf. Mr. O'Neill. We are currently in the process doing RFP.
TEXT> I had. Broached several roofing companies in June with a deadline of the end of August, and basically 75% of the company said they could. They couldn't quote it because they were concerned about getting it done in the heat of the summer with that kind of deadline. So I'm putting it out again. It's going to be out. There's going to be a meeting there next Thursday to go over the project with interested parties. That's going to go in the paper this weekend. It'll be on the website and then we will have to do it after school starts. But we already worked on a plan for that. That shouldn't really provide too much of a problem for the students.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: They're going to work. Would they end up working during the school day or.

[8558-85] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (ASR 'Michael Neil', 'Mr. O'Neal'; spell | 2016-08-03
PREV> Michael O'Neill: but I think we need to make a decision on whether or not we want to do what ourselves or send it out, because it's not fair to the employees, to Carol, to to the other people, if it's our desire to send this out.
TEXT> As well as it's not fair to the students, if we feel like we can improve their choices  without costing the taxpayer money. My concern becomes they don't get the milk bid. There's no guarantee of pricing right now. We're guaranteed we're pretty much operating at a at a break even. Like I said, it was about a $3,000 surplus in 1516 and about a $5,000 deficit in 1415. Those numbers I don't I can't guarantee those with a with a vendor because the vendor is basically going to say any, any shortage will have to be funded through a general fund transfer. So, you know, that's the, you know, the information and I'm not sure what the basis. And I know this is a new board. What the basis of the wanting to make the change before I started was. And I know that it's something that as I said, I'm disappointed that I haven't followed up on, but I think it's time to have a discussion about where we want to go with this. Thank you.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: I know that one of the main reasons that we wanted to look at an outside source was the types of meals and the food that was provided for students.

[8558-94] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Carol. Could you please repeat the question? Becky?
TEXT> Yes. I noticed on your paper that you have soups, chilies, charters, etc.. My question is, are these going to be fresh made utilizing that state of the art kitchen that Stevens High School now has? Is the kitchen going to be used as a kitchen to make fresh food for the students to eat?
NEXT> Carol Gregory: Yes they have. Becky, I've already bought the soup pots and everything for them to be put out, and there will be the fresh charter, the soups, the chilies. We

[8558-96] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Carol Gregory: needs to do, and you know, in a little more. And the improvements on there with your approval and Middleton's approval. This is what we would like to do and keep making them throughout the year to bring it up to a top a think.
TEXT> Right. So we're going to try to get away from the frozen heat up in the oven and put out there for the students.
NEXT> Carol Gregory: Yes. And also to any other company that you go with, any private companies. They also use frozen items to.

[8558-98] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Carol Gregory: Yes. And also to any other company that you go with, any private companies. They also use frozen items to.
TEXT> Right? I  know that, but I also know that that was one of the big issues about our lunches for our students was that they were heat up and put out there.
NEXT> Carol Gregory: And I do have a.

[8558-103] Brent Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Brant' (ASR)) | 2016-08-03
PREV> Rebecca Ferland: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> I know that some of the numbers we've seen previously was there was a, a I don't wanna say discrepancy, but you saw a huge fall off from free and reduced lunch going from the middle school to the high school, and there was some talk of possibly a POS system that might help kind of capture some of that back. Is there any, where we with that? Because I think that's important. You know, just looking at those numbers, there's some. So when they get to the high school, for some reason, some of those kids are, you know, kind of falling off the map there. And, I like I said, there was a discussion about a POS system that might be able to help capture that back, or.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think that's something.

[8558-133] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Unidentified: We did.
TEXT> And I think that needs to be taken into consideration. If we're here about students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It ought.

[8558-181] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Chris Irish: little tidbit. And it wasn't to sit up here and compromise my convictions and to sit up here and be afraid, because people keep wanting to tell us what to do when we know in a heart of hearts, it's the wrong thing to do.
TEXT> And he said it. He could not have. He just couldn't have said it any better. Can't. We can't go backwards. We can't continue to do what we know is bad for our kids. And he reminded me of that. You know, my daughter is in her second year. She did well in her first year, but mainly because she was part of Catch the Wave and kids that had the AP courses and had a little bit of extra special help. They did. They did fine, but they all said the same thing. We were adequately prepared.  I'm sorry, but I don't want my kid to be adequately anything. I want them to have the best possible everything that they can have, especially when it comes to their education and, you know, can't, is it? There is no dot, dot dot. There is no. But let's wait and see what happens. None of that is there to me. So my original motion, I've added some words to it and it's different than what I when I sat down. But Richard, I want to thank you because what you said reminded me of. Really? I want to cut to the chase. I don't care what the lawyer says.
NEXT> Chris Irish: I don't care what the state says. I don't care what people that disagree with this say. We know one thing. We know it wasn't working. We were failing our

[8558-182] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Chris Irish: I've added some words to it and it's different than what I when I sat down. But Richard, I want to thank you because what you said reminded me of. Really? I want to cut to the chase. I don't care what the lawyer says.
TEXT> I don't care what the state says. I don't care what people that disagree with this say. We know one thing. We know it wasn't working. We were failing our kids. We know that. So why in God's name would we deliberately make decisions that are going to keep us in that situation, and downward spiral in the hopes that maybe we can all work together to fix it later, when we know full well that  there's two sides to this issue, both sides can end this immediately. Yep. We can end it by saying, yeah, we'll just stick with what's failing and move on. They could end it by saying, you know, we care best for the kids. We'll drop our, our, our position and work with you. One side wants to work, one side doesn't. I'm not going to let that stop me from continuing to fight the fight and do the right thing. We just can't, is the word. So I am therefore making the motion that I move, that we do not comply with the PLO, be ruling and continue to move forward with the A b scheduling while pursuing an appeal of the ruling. It's that simple. I'm not kicking this can down the road anymore. Need a second? Okay.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Do we have a second?

[8558-189] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: We need to kind of continue with appeal and I think try to work with work with the teachers and to get the right schedule.
TEXT> I do think that if we go back to. The 4x4, I don't think we're going to get away from it that easy.  And, you know, we heard some of those numbers, you know, Richard, thank you. Thank you for that. Because hearing them, hearing them again really, really sort of solidifies  how bad that schedule was failing our kids.  And really I've got I've got a hard time. I've got a hard time going back to something that I know that's shown that wasn't doing our kids any good. It just wasn't it wasn't working. You know, regardless of of whatever decision came out of the the PLA be. I it's it's not the right thing. And for me, I've got to do the right thing. And this is about those high school students. It's about not going backwards. It's about making sure when they graduate that they're prepared. You know, that there's there's a lot of stuff out there that they can be doing. And if we go back to the 4x4, it's it could be years before we could figure out a way to, to move off of it again.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: One of the but if.

[8558-196] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: Know, you wait until if they gave us the right to do, we would be able to do it the following school year. Right.
TEXT> The point. What do you tell those kids coming into this year? I'm sorry. We'll get you next time you go through high school. There is no next time. My kid got one shot at it and she's one of the lucky ones. Richard's kids got not lucky. He's right word. They earned it. And the teachers earned what? These kids.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: But they don't. We don't know. It was because of the schedule. We don't.

[8558-198] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: But they don't. We don't know. It was because of the schedule. We don't.
TEXT> Know that the correlation that this schedule is going to be the difference because we've only had it for one. But the fact that here's the fact, you get four years in high school, we're taking a year away from the kids coming in. Now. If we change, we're taking a year of their education. As an educator. That's got to mean a lot.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: But my.

[8558-200] Chris Irish | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: But my.
TEXT> One year of their high school education, one quarter of their education, we are taking away, turning it upside down, saying, hopefully this doesn't screw up the rest of your life and your chances of getting into college. One quarter, they get four years. We're messing with that one year because some arbitrary entity says this, and the entity that's supposed to work with us and care about our kids is saying, don't talk to us, just do this.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: My, my, my concern about this whole thing is, I think the discussion get sidetracked a little bit because we want to go to an A, B, and we're locked

[8558-208] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: saying and I'm all for that. But what I'm saying is to to give them the middle finger and say, you know what? We're going to we're going to stick to our a, B, that's what we're that's what we're going to do. If we.
TEXT> If we're going to defend the kids, we're going to stand up for the children, we're going to be here for what we got put on this board for for the children to make those decisions for children. When you're looking at taking a bunch of children and ripping their schedules all apart, putting them back into a system that didn't work, all for the glory of a bunch of people that are adults bickering. Okay, we just sat here and discussed about baking food better in our schools. Why are we not? This is redundant.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: There are there.

[8558-216] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brent Ferland: You don't want to play by the rules.
TEXT> It's not it's not about playing by the rules. It's about saying to every single person here, what are we here for? To have a bunch of people tell us what to do. That already is a challenge because technically, according to what I've understood, they're not allowed to tell the school board about that. So that's a whole game into itself that needs to be addressed. Number one. Number two, we are here discussing food and how to make it better and give good lunches and healthier food for these children. But yet we can't decide that. We know that. And you just said it. I'm all for in a B system. Yes. And you know what? Sometimes when you're doing the right thing, you're going to stand alone. You're going to break the rules, and you're going to have to put up with a little bit of backlash. But you know what's in the end, the benefit of the end. Those children that are going to come out of this school ten times better, just from the reports that have come out of  what that class program did to what this class class program did. And I'm going to tell you right now, it is ridiculous to think that we can't be strong enough to be the first in the community, the first in the city, the state to say, look, we have our children's intentions in mind first.
NEXT> Brent Ferland: To say that a schedule is the make or break of a child failing in school, I think really is a disservice to any student. Okay, well, because a student

[8558-224] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: It's Becky. What do you got?
TEXT> I want to just talk about a couple of things that are going, what I feel is part of this discussion. I know that at the same very close to the same time that the 4x4 went to the A, B, we changed from norm based grading to standard based grading.  And I remember when you talk about students having to go through a very difficult time for four years and you can't tell me and some of your students were in that situation where the grading system was changed every single year until it got to where it is right now. And because of that, we had to say, okay, what is it that we really want? I agree that the a B could be the best way to go, but I also have to agree with Patrick and Brant that we need to do it the right way, just like we did it the right way with the grading system. We said, we have a problem, let's look at it, step back and make it right. And so I feel that that's what this is our opportunity to do that, to make it right. And when we talk about failures and things like that, I know that under the norm based grading that there were lots of failures. And that was one of the main reasons that there was a real push to go to standards based grading so that students could be successful.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: And so that also ties into the scheduling. And just like Brant said, if you're saying that a student can make a make or break it, by the way, that

[8558-229] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Before we get here from Frank.
TEXT> I have the court. I have the floor. Thank you. I worked for a superintendent one time. Told me he said never look for a univariate answer to a multivariate problem. And that's what Brant just said a minute ago. He may not have known he said that, but he said that,  and, we could. And sort of picking out backing on what Becky just said,  you could go on and find a lot of different villains that could be the cause of failure. And I'll give you a little list. And I think they're all probably more valid than an administrative arrangement in which kids take courses. Let's talk about attendance rates. What are they? Homeless rate from page of the paper. Educational level of parents, income of parents. Drug use among students and parents. Transient nature of our population.  Preparedness of students coming into the high school. Quality. Quality of instruction in the high school. Our kids being engaged. We're still doing things the way we did in the 1800s and incarceration rates of parents.  None of those are any. All of those are probably more valid indicators than an administrative arrangement, whether they're in a a B day or a 4x4 block day. You take any one of those and you are going to find some major, major impactors, any one of them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: On student achievement, we have all of those here in Claremont, every one of them. So to hang all of this on block schedule is ludicrous. That's why I've been

[8558-230] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: any. All of those are probably more valid indicators than an administrative arrangement, whether they're in a a B day or a 4x4 block day. You take any one of those and you are going to find some major, major impactors, any one of them.
TEXT> On student achievement, we have all of those here in Claremont, every one of them.  So to hang all of this on block schedule is ludicrous. That's why I've been against it from day one. When you start making a saying it's the schedule causing all of this, I'm not buying it. Well, look.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: We've had a lot of time to discuss. And really, you say that kids. Kids have already said that they feel like they weren't being challenged.

[8558-239] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: Think and I.
TEXT> But I think that income level has a huge effect on student achievement.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: Well, great. So you're going to you're going to blame the families for us not providing. Education. Blaming and saying. It's.

[8558-242] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board Chair (cluster also carries Vice Chair Chris Ir | 2016-08-03
PREV> Patrick Adrian: A factor into into the
TEXT> We know. We know that the kids would go a,  a year and a half without having a math class, and we expect them to do. Well, that's, that's that's insane. That is insane. And that's what going to the a B was meant to fix. We all know that if you go a year and a half without doing some sort of skill, you're going to lose it. You try being an EMT and you don't. You use your skills for a year and a half. You're going to lose them. All right? This isn't riding a bike. You don't do those skills, you will lose them. So I think that the schedule, the 4x4 is a large problem with why kids were failing. That's why we moved to have kids take year long classes. All right.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I, I would like to say this. I don't feel that by saying what? Chris motion that we are breaking the law.

[8558-245] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2016-08-03
PREV> Brian Rapp: I don't.
TEXT> Either actually pursuing our rights as a board to go forward, challenging this one person, making decisions for our entire community. Unacceptable. We are not breaking any laws. If anything, we are teaching our fundamentals right here to our children to be better, to try to improve and try to make things happen. And you know what? Here's the difference. Either we go with the A B schedule and challenge them, or we have to sit  on the no. We go with a B schedule. Then that's the one right? The right one. Or we have to sit on a block schedule. You are going to disrupt. These children are already socially struggling because we are in a low income, because we are in a drug infested place, because we have all these things socially and we do not even look at these social aspects. But I will tell you that.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Will tell you that the most important thing is the best interest of the children, because that's why we're here. We're not breaking laws. We're showing people that we're strong

