[16857-16] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: what would be packing days, what would be moving days, and what would be classroom set up days. Please know this about elementary teachers. Remember all those wonderful things I said. They're so very true. You need to add orders. We are. Orders by nature.
TEXT> It's another word, for it is thrifty. Some of our husbands use different words. We really need to do that in collaboration with our colleagues in SRE, to determine how best that can be done, to ensure that teachers have the time to do what they need to do. And so that's why I don't have specifically for you right now. What we would be aiming for is the new first day for students being October 20th, 2025. Families are subject to be part of this proposal because we recognize that anytime we hear there's going to be a change for our kiddos, it gives us a little bit in our stomach and we think, oh my gosh, how's this going to go? We are committed to making this the smoothest. If this proposal goes through with the board, the smoothest transition possible for children and families. So what we would do is we would  notify all families of their child's new school assignment. That part's a little easier because we've told you which grade levels will be going where by October 10th. Each student and family will then receive an Individualized Student Information. Notice.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And I apologize. I don't think I can get to it from here, but I can pull it up right after. As well as welcoming information from their new school

[16857-19] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: roles. They provide specially designed instruction as a service to that student that's individualized to them and to their needs, as well as the case management. In the world of special education, there is a process and there are a lot of checks and balances.
TEXT> A lot of people work and a lot of things that need to be done in order to ensure students are receiving the services they need. The first part of that is piece management. What we be proposing is the special educators from Dessner. I have three special educators will assume case management responsibilities for all students in third grade at Bluff Elementary School. That would be nine students that would be split between three elementary students, three special educators at Dessner, special educators from Maple Avenue would be assuming the case management responsibilities for all students. In second grade, eight students split between three special educators in Mr. Blunt School. Peace management for students in fourth and fifth grade would be would be done through that contracted service provider that is 21 students. Bluff  special educators will provide peace management services for kindergarten and first grade, along with any new referrals that are received. As as many of you know, anytime there's a question, a referral would be made to special education or student. That process can occur any and all time. What financial gains are there to this proposal? There are none. What transportation concerns or questions? There's no impact to transportation for this proposal. What this proposal does do is you can see it's color coded, the pink or kindergarten bluff case manager  piece managers would take care of those eight students, along with the pride program and only referrals that come. In.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Maple Avenue. Second grade is now a third grade contracting service, which is what the CS stands for would be the fourth and fifth grade. What you have at the

[16857-28] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: doing that. Do it. If they can't do that with a verbal drive by shooting at 10 p.m. the night before, you're putting them in a position to lose trust with families, to lose rapport building, to trigger kiddos that have extreme trauma with meaning.
TEXT> Extra time for adjustment conversations. You're not helping your educators be the best that they can be, because you're putting them in situations that are not the best. Situations that are very easily avoided. Really transparent conversation. I think that is something. Even as a parent, I've been really disappointed in finding things out in a way that's not acceptable. Last minute, hastily reported bits and pieces of things I think you, And I just really want to highlight the perseverance of the  entire Saw staff from top to bottom, left to right. I get to go into the schools and I know that he is. Teachers are in the entire rerouting system for these kids who are  filled up with anxiety, trauma,  a ton of different adversities, and they have to be the common. They don't even know if they're going to have a job or a plan or whatever, because they're given fragments of information. I just think out of respect for the staff that had chosen to stay. When the ship is sinking, you need to do your job. You need to communicate effectively. You need to be respectful to the staff that is working tirelessly to make these students feel safe, loved and heard. That's your job. That's why you're here. Communication I really hope to see an improvement out of respect for your staff, who deserve way more than we've been given. Thank you. Well done.
NEXT> Unidentified: Holder Ward two. So look through the two proposal for proposal three. So it's not as much movement for the kids. Looking at the proposal two you said the distance

[16857-29] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2 (unidentified; name unintelligible on recordi | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: is working tirelessly to make these students feel safe, loved and heard. That's your job. That's why you're here. Communication I really hope to see an improvement out of respect for your staff, who deserve way more than we've been given. Thank you. Well done.
TEXT> Holder Ward two. So look through the two proposal for proposal three. So it's not as much movement for the kids. Looking at the proposal two you said the distance for busses is one mile. Is that a one mile radius from my house or the roots of one mile. And my house is one mile from both schools radius wise. But rat was it is not. So how does that work for you? I need to know that information like as it route was already as was.  The other hand is will y'all  be opening schools earlier for parents to drop kids off like you all? Are you going to allow them to drop them off at 7:00 in the morning because they can't be at the bus stop for some of these kids? Because there's going to be a program for these kids to be dropped off in the morning if the new start day. I'm trying to think of all the things that starts at 20th. Knowing how elementary teachers put their rooms together and trying to find rooms in these other two schools in this district the best they can. Are you going to close the bluff down for a week for those teachers to move, if that's the one proposed, because that takes a long time for that love to be shown in the rooms spend at the school that they are,  the love's already there.
NEXT> Unidentified: They have that love, they have that care. I know they move with their teachers, but it's still a new routine. Statistics show that kids get moved around a lot.

[16857-31] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2 (unidentified; name unintelligible on recordi | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: because they don't want to be in this district anymore. It's going to take ten years for y'all to get the community's trust back, to trust this school district. 5 million in a home. That sucks. But not having the educators here sucks even more.
TEXT> So you need to make sure you take care of the educators. Those teacher burnout is real. For real. Because when y'all burn them out, they're not coming back. They will tell their friends, don't go to Claremont. I am burned out and they will burn you to. The other one is trying to find an application. I'm from the south. I cannot find a job in New Hampshire when I moved here. Zero. Y'all are not only any of the teacher applications online unless I film essay you or  Claremont. I can't find jobs so trying out reach other states if you can find it. And I  come up with a plan that I'm surprised nobody else thought about. What if we were to get help from people donating money to keep love open instead of closing it? And. Then I wrote, something after what transpired from the last school board meeting and some tears and uncertain uncertainties and concerns for our children, I just want  you to know. Sorry I missed out. I stand with you. I want to take a moment to say, I see you, I hear you, I validate you, I value and appreciate every one of you. I also believe that bluff isn't just a school. It's a family full of love and understanding and truly breaks my heart that the teachers feel undervalued and some, if not all unseen, and their words are being pushed under the rug.
NEXT> Unidentified: Instead of validating just know I. Sorry, I'm a little more. Anyway, I'm just going to say I do not want love to to close. So if people want to

[16857-32] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: one of you. I also believe that bluff isn't just a school. It's a family full of love and understanding and truly breaks my heart that the teachers feel undervalued and some, if not all unseen, and their words are being pushed under the rug.
TEXT> Instead of validating just know I. Sorry, I'm a little more. Anyway, I'm just going to say I do not want love to to close. So if people want to actually give the kids something to smile about, please help donate so they don't close with. Congratulations on your. New job. And for all your people that are here and the ones out on TV land. The new. Proposal from the from the. Was, I think, accepted a lot better than and no disrespect. For the guys who were up here last week, but you look like the three students. Yes. No answers. I've told you several times, show your work. These people have done the work and shown the work. So you say, well, this is the way it's got to be. And we're going to say $60,000. How much is it going to cost to close that school up? Yes. You know, you. You. Just gave us one number, nothing else. Give all the information. These people have done that. So I suggest that you go with what they've done. Thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Somebody for the Michael. Yeah. Not worried.

[16857-37] Unidentified | Brief crosstalk (speaker not identifiable) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Sherry Williams: creative community engagement. As you are looking at getting funding or quotes from moving and things like that with the community and the support in the different areas that we've seen, you might be able to get some creative community support with moving the schools.
TEXT> Very good. This man is a done. This means you got. Trips. Yeah. Principal. Can you hear? You? Prince Boggess will work to. There's got to be about anything because it has to be on the screen. Whatever you want. Okay, I. Heard a rumor. A rumor that after the assassination of Utah last week. Educator, the Claremont educator had made comments to her kids, again, rumored to be inappropriate. I want to know if you're going to confirm that happen or not. I thought the comments were supposed to be about bluff, so. That's why I asked. We're taking questions. That's why I said no. Okay. The change of subject, okay. It's not going to talk about that. It's gonna be, let's talk one. Yeah.  My kids at bluff and I have another student that I have another. I'm a teacher, so I'm saying student all the time.  My son is in the middle school. He also as well, and I have many friends that also go there. So I really hope, for the sake of everybody here, in the sake of all the students of love,  and the students that people are, frankly, that you have not already made up your minds about how you're going to vote tonight. So we seem to be focused on one school that we should really be focused on the entire district.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. At this time, I understand you're on, so I want clarity on this before you vote. I understand that we have 1 or 2 special educators at bluff. Is

[16857-39] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified; Claremont teacher and Bluff Elementary | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: it's going to be a bus stop, which I love that idea, but if it's going to be a bus stop with the schools a heated and open there goes for 60 K, moving costs are going to be significant. And then. Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> I made it this time.  Is this about money? Right? Or  is this about the students? Because this should be about the students, right? Should you be able to students and the staff heap them where they are  until you know what's happening with our budget, okay? And then come up with a game plan. Please don't move them. Move them and move them. It's exhausting. So  that's proposal three, please. Thank you. In another district. So I can see that side of it too. But my history is that I taught somewhere where I. Had 20. Five kids on average.  There were 4 or 5 other teachers, 600 kids in the school. And had we stayed where we were, our children would have had names on a data wall somewhere, and folks would not have really ever gotten to know either one of our children. So we decided we wanted to move to a little,  a quaint little place in New England where I did my student teaching in New Hampshire. Finally convince my husband to move here. And we moved in the middle of a pandemic, which meant that my children new nobody. They played with only each other. I sent my little teeny tiny kindergartner after the Big bang pack and a mass.  And it just was like. There you go. And she got a brand new teacher,  really nervous.
NEXT> Unidentified: Mommy came home. Mayor of bluff loves her school. Taught her three year old sister the bluff chair, which we knew all the time at dinner. And if you have

[16857-40] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified; Bluff Elementary parent) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: which meant that my children new nobody. They played with only each other. I sent my little teeny tiny kindergartner after the Big bang pack and a mass. And it just was like. There you go. And she got a brand new teacher, really nervous.
TEXT> Mommy came home. Mayor of bluff loves her school. Taught her three year old sister the bluff chair, which we knew all the time at dinner. And if you have children in bluff, I know all about everything because all they do is talk with each other.  The teachers there are phenomenal and amazing, and it's exactly what we wanted for our children. I really, really, really, really, really think that would be incredibly detrimental to our children. To move them and move them and move them and move them. I understand there's a budget crisis. I understand that nobody really knows what that all means at this point. But I do know that if there are two options and one of them is keeping our children where they are, please do that. It would be. It would be a humongous. Really. We are having sleepless nights. We are very stressed out at my house. Our children are having to deal with the impact of decisions, and I would like that impact to be one decision less. I would like them to stay where they are and I would really appreciate it. Shows number four. Thank you.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: To everyone. Amanda Barton Award two. I want to make a couple of comments about two and three. Start by saying thank you for proposal for the proposals. This is

[16857-41] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: at my house. Our children are having to deal with the impact of decisions, and I would like that impact to be one decision less. I would like them to stay where they are and I would really appreciate it. Shows number four. Thank you.
TEXT> To  everyone. Amanda Barton Award two.  I want to make a couple of comments about  two and three.  Start by saying thank you for proposal for the proposals. This is kind of what I was hoping that we'd have discussion last week, but that's here, nor there.  One comment about two if we were to, you know, combine the schools. Let's hope we don't make any Stanford action ever. Like, I don't want this to be a reason to reduce that next year. We all know we could never afford such things, so I hope that the board keeps that in consideration. And we still look forward to, a longer term plan as well after this if we go forward to it. That's my comment. And  another comment that was asked is families that if all the two of us to go through with families that have students in those multiple grades, could they who have their son or daughter join a different class at that school? They really wanted to keep their family together, and that was more important than staying within the class. Just go with that out there in case that comes up for those families. Now,  I'm actually more in favor of proposal three because like I've heard here, it's it's less impact on the students in that disruption. So I have some clarifying questions I'm hoping that you guys will discuss for me. So,  are the case manager numbers more equitable?
NEXT> Amanda Barton: I was having a really hard time. I misread the proposal at home. So thank you for the clarification. And I'm just trying to figure out if, like, their lows

[16857-44] Unidentified | Brief crosstalk (speaker not identifiable) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Amanda Barton: in town who want to help. We've heard that and it's amazing. So let's kind of keep those ideas going. If we have to go with the three, let's think of all of those options as well. Maybe have that discussion for me. Thank you.
TEXT> Well. I'm a Bluff School teacher. I've taught in other districts around the state. I've taught in private schools. I raised my kids here in Claremont. I'm not native with 22 years, and  we started the school year under a great deal of duress. My my taxes here in Claremont have gone through the roof.  I'm not happy about any of that, but starting the year so rough and looking at the year projecting sort of the changes we're going to go through as a district, very likely, it's going to take some strategic planning to make the likely changes, a very likely configuration of the whole elementary situation. That's something that we've got a lot of talent in the district to bring to the table around those kinds of discussions.  But, you know, frankly, it's only a few weeks into the school year, and emotionally,  this is really impactful, and I want to do the best job that I can do for these students. And  moving to another building is is asking a lot of us. It's asking a lot of our kids. And if the kids are moving again next year because of this reconfiguration that we'd like to map out to a T, is is just untenable. So let's just keep the school open for the year for everybody, Sandy, so that we can be the very best that we can be for one, last year.
NEXT> Unidentified: And given everything that we've got and do the best they can to plan for a proper reconfiguration. Please let us go with plan three. Three. Plan to plan 33.

[16857-51] Tammy Yates | Claremont teachers' union president; Bluff Elementary School teacher ( | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: I do have to say thank you. This was very powerful because, it is very refreshing to have that instead of what we had before. Fantastic. Thank you. Great. So. So, good luck communicating with those teachers and the students and everything else. Thank you.
TEXT> I want. To. Speak on behalf. Of our bluff students. At this point, children. Are scared. We're beginning to see. Trauma in them. It is really hard for. Me as. An educator. It it's home. They're afraid of the uncertainty that. Has. Been created. In our building. It's taken us. Weeks to be able. To build. A family atmosphere. And environment to. For children to feel. Safe. And encouraged and want to be in our school.  As the union. President,  I can say that. I am. Concerned about all of our teachers. These principles have done an amazing job to try to advocate for our students. Unfortunately, I do feel that the situation  has been very difficult for the board. I personally don't feel that we as educators have been supported, and it's something that really hurts me, even the heart.  And I would like to say that  I propose a proposal number three.
NEXT> Unidentified: And I'm from Ward three. This is my grades. I'm terrified to be up here. I've been a resident of Fairmont for years. I graduated from Stevens High School in

[16857-53] Unidentified | Public commenter (unidentified) | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: in Medicaid reimbursements. We did have to return $70,000 due to audit findings. Are we okay with not billing Medicaid and not pursuing these revenues with our current flow problems? And I really hope to talk to carry tomorrow about the other issues. Good point.
TEXT> Shows the N word two. I want to thank all of you for your responsible for that you have given the community. I really stand here before you honestly not knowing what to say, right? How the person wants to be here. This community and the teachers and staff pieces. This is all fell down and it's hard. It's really, really hard work. And I don't know what the answer is, and I. I wish somebody knew. But I also I would hate moving any, any staff, but I think we also have to think about our whole community and what that means. And that makes me sad. This really does. And I don't know the answer, but I think probably where all of our students in this and. Frankly, I don't know. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We're looking here. I. Based on that one need for the current. Season. And that. That school will never. Reopen for some means of true poaching. So it. Really seems like a bad option. Because the teachers. This is a. Competitive. Place to be or to come to with the class sizes that we have the facilities falling apart because we were cut well. And then you're also going to need some of that shift over and take care of the school that hopefully it must be planning to sell. It seems like an incomplete plan all the way around. The problem that's creating it is making the district very.
NEXT> Unidentified: Nobody wants to be. Nobody wants to stay or nobody's sure to pick up the able to stay. So sticking it out and waiting for a better plan to develop

[16857-77] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: what I do when a pair of NASA's. I put their address in my maps app. And I thank you for not judging me. Because we're we're looking for that one. So that leads me to say. Good. But I am not the transportation director.
TEXT> I also want to thank the principles for the work that you've done and your staff, the people who are here, who are hanging in and getting us through this. We have to get through this and we will. I also want to say I was not here last week because I had plans previously arranged for months ago, and I could not change them. I will tell you, while I was not here, I was on the phone. I was getting texts, emails. So while I was physically not here, I felt that I was hearing,  the concern I have is about the hemorrhaging that is happening. Our staff are stressed. The uncertainty of where am I going to be? What is my what are my numbers going to be for teaching children and being able to focus on their children in front of you? The way I see the second plan principals plan is that we're just moving. I shouldn't say just we're moving the geographic location. The children will be with their teacher. They will be with their parents. They will be welcomed. Looking at the elementary principals, they will be welcomed into their new location. If we reach a point where and it does happen, children or or schools, I should say, or germ factories when adults are sick, if there's no one there to cover the class, that's that's extremely unsettling for children.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: If we are having students in just a geographical different location, there are adults who can help cover classes, who can continue the teaching for those children because they're somewhat

[16857-78] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: be welcomed into their new location. If we reach a point where and it does happen, children or or schools, I should say, or germ factories when adults are sick, if there's no one there to cover the class, that's that's extremely unsettling for children.
TEXT> If we are having students in just a geographical different location, there are adults who can help cover classes, who can continue the teaching for those children because they're somewhat available, more so than they are right now. And the other piece, and I may have said, this is the uncertainty for our staff. We're hearing that staff is stressed. We're hearing that staff doesn't know if they're going to have a job. They're resigning. We can keep them by having the certainty of having their location, having their numbers be reasonable and knowing that come winter they will be okay and our kids will be okay.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: What's the progress of the audit? Do you have a number yet? If not.

[16857-85] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: trying to be responsible with the budget. And then on top of that, we've got this crisis of the immediate concern for our finances. And we have been put in a horrible situation that we are in unprecedented area. We not have the luxury. Of.
TEXT> I mean, we do not luxury of having a 2 to 3 year process of analyzing and making and having you all participate in,  in wonderful,  parent teacher community forums to talk about what's the best way forward. That's what we would like to do. I know that's what you would like to do. We agree, but we don't have the the luxury of time. We are concerned about the the finances. I think I can't speak for the rest of them, but I want to be able to keep the schools open for the year. That's. That's what I am. That's what I'm working on. I want the schools to stay open for the year. Number two, I want to be able to cover the needs of our students during that year. If if I have  a couple of teachers out.  There's a death in the family. There's a child that's hurt. I mean, the principals can tell you any number of appearances that happen. My teachers are. Oh, we have got to. We already have a very limited amount of staff, and  we have got to accommodate those students, regardless of how many staff we have in the buildings.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, we're trying to see what is the best way to address the everyday needs of our students, the special ed needs of the students and the, old, old today's

[16857-86] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: principals can tell you any number of appearances that happen. My teachers are. Oh, we have got to. We already have a very limited amount of staff, and we have got to accommodate those students, regardless of how many staff we have in the buildings.
TEXT> And,  we're trying to see what is the best way to address the everyday needs of our students, the special ed needs of the students and the,  old, old today's what happens situation where  the principal comes in and the principal is down. Three teachers for a variety of reasons.
NEXT> Unidentified: We've been. Down. 12 before and and made it work. We can do it. We think. We'll take all. Of them.

[16857-92] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: That's it. Go ahead.
TEXT> And I just want to add on. I am working with Tammy Yates and Karen Ladd from the Sri as well. And, and h e as well, just to make sure that we represent all the faculty  and staff. And I appreciate that all of the work that has been done, and I apologize on behalf of any previous that may not have included to at the table. That was remiss of us. And we will definitely make sure moving forward, that we include all of the union representatives of hospital to make sure everybody is represented as well as possible.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Unless Bill or Mike have any questions for them. I'd like. To. Make a motion of support for proposal number three. That's my motion.

[16857-102] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-09-17
PREV> Loren Howard: But I was asked. What I was asking was, at what point do we want the principals to make any further comments? I.
TEXT> I think the principals provided a very clear presentation. I think that you offered the options. I very much appreciate that. The first option was taken off of the table because of the chaos that we would have experienced and the disharmony for adults and kids. I again want to reiterate that I think with option two, none of us want to be here. None of us. The ideal situation would be to have everything adequately funded, to have teachers breaking down the doors to come into. Our district. We're not there yet. Hopefully we will get there for the quality that we can provide children. And I believe that there will be more opportunity for providing the adults in the room that can continue the teaching and learning that is happening in classrooms and should be happening. That is our focus for our children. I've been in the classroom. I've been in your shoes. I don't like being on this side. I  can't imagine what all of you are going through. The reality is we are here and these are the hard decisions that have to be made.
NEXT> Unidentified: You need to advocate for children. That's right. What we need to do. Is be the poorest neighborhoods in town, and they're the ones taking the hit. Once again. We

[16857-116] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Loren Howard: foresight to look at this list and go in a month. What are we going to be missing? Now, here we are. And the fact that we're voting to close bluff because of this decision is just absolutely baffling after hearing what we heard tonight.
TEXT> Again, just even moving the motion is absolutely baffling to me.  And so I don't have any more facts on the people who are out there who saw this tonight. And so I  think,  if that's honestly where your votes are going to lie and you need to relook at the facts, because proposal number two is not going to help our children.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're right.

[16857-118] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-09-17
PREV> Unidentified: You're right.
TEXT> I'm concerned about, plan three because I'm afraid to get to December. And we might have to go back to plan two. And I think we would be better off. I really think it's better for the children to make the change now. It's still September.  And how a. Full. Year of the new plan, with their teachers in the different buildings. And,  but this. Might.
NEXT> Unidentified: She has no idea what she's saying out in the summer.

[16872-9] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: minutes for that first 30 minutes. And if you'd like to speak for a second time within that 30 minute time frame, that's more than acceptable. Is there anyone here that would like to speak to citizens comments this evening? Okay. Patrick, would you mind?
TEXT> Sorry for the record. My name is Gary Merchant, Ward two. First and foremost, I want to thank every single member of the school board for the hard work, sleepless nights, stressful moments, and tough decisions. You folks have been together collectively on behalf of this community. I want to say in deepest I possibly can from the bottom of my heart, thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16872-14] Eric Abbey | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Eric Abbey: important if you want our trust and to be able to come back to where we should be, we need to know what you guys are going to do to make sure we know someone's looking out for all of these things that went wrong.
TEXT> The interesting the only other thing I want to say, I'm sure there's more, but I'm forgetting. But  one thing in last the last meeting. And whatever it is with with, the school closing on all that, there was one thing said multiple times that I just want you guys to really be thinking about in forward decisions that, you know, over years, how many schools have closed in Claremont and you, you know, be at 30, 40, 50, however many years ago do not say that it it just takes away from the students today, 30, 40, 50 years ago, you had great families, you had families support, you had parents engaged. These children now do not have that. We know the drug addiction problem in this town. They don't have support at home. So to compare it to your 30 years ago, different time, different era, stop bringing that into play. This is the world we live in today. It's scary and it's more scary for those young children. And to discount that by saying you went through it is not acceptable. I just think that you guys should think about things like that before you say it. That's all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Your name and ward for the.

[16872-60] Chris Cogswell | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Hi,  Chris. Cogswell. Ward three.  I. Just wanted to take a moment. I, I really don't have a lot to say to the school board, per se, but more to the students of Claremont. I just wanted to say how intensely proud of you I am.  You know, New Hampshire schools are chronically underfunded. And Claremont within New Hampshire, schools are chronically underfunded.  And yet Claremont kids are doing  above the national average in various statistics. And I just want to make sure that we as a community, take into consideration when these kids are coming up through school now, just how disruptive this event is for them. Could you imagine starting thinking you're starting school in a week and then being told, well, maybe not your favorite teacher is fired  or there's no sports this year. You may not go to college, right?  And so I really hope that not only, we as a community come together to understand that challenge and really support these students, but I hope the state also steps up to support those students. Right.  We're constantly hearing about, you know, Claremont students, and how high the taxes are and, you know, the school system struggling and everything else. And I'm frankly tired of just hearing bad news. We have a lot to celebrate in Claremont. Our students are doing,  tremendously well given the challenges that they are facing constantly every day. Forget who said it. But you. Know.
NEXT> Chris Cogswell: The type of situation that these students are growing up in today is so different than it's ever been before. There's more challenges today than there have ever been, and

[16872-61] Chris Cogswell | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Chris Cogswell: system struggling and everything else. And I'm frankly tired of just hearing bad news. We have a lot to celebrate in Claremont. Our students are doing, tremendously well given the challenges that they are facing constantly every day. Forget who said it. But you. Know.
TEXT> The type of situation that these students are growing up in today is so different than it's ever been before. There's more challenges today than there have ever been, and yet we continue to ask them to do more with less.  And it's one part of the conversation I feel like we keep missing out on. Right. There's a lot we as a community could do for these students to support them, and I just hope that they know how know we know how hard they're working. And that they really continue to, to do what they're doing because they are doing well in the face of tremendous adversity. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[16872-68] Hope Damon | NH State Representative, Sullivan District 8 (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Hope Damon, state representative for Sullivan, district eight.  I just wanted to respond to the question in regards to free and reduced meals with  two pieces of information. Free and Reduced Meals is a federal program that's administered by the state, but the state's education adequacy formula is partly based on the number of students who qualify for free and reduced meals. So I would very much encourage any parents or guardians who have not filled out the application for free and reduced meals. Don't assume you don't qualify. It's worth finding out even if your student doesn't want to eat the meals, because if you qualify, Claremont will get substantially more education funding from the state. So I just want to put that out to the public. And then in regards to an entire school, like the way bluff has been able to offer free meals to all students, that is a separate part of the federal school meals program that's based, I believe,  on a larger percentage of students in the district qualifying. If the percentage is high enough, then free meals can be provided for all the students in the district.
NEXT> Hope Damon: I can, verify the details on that and, follow up on that with folks so we can find out whether Dessner or Maple Avenue would qualify. I know that there

[16872-71] Eric Abbey | Public commenter, Ward 3 (onset clip) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you, Miss David.
TEXT> I'm  still. Abby and I'm still in Ward three.  I did get to think of a couple other things that I had thought of before. I will just say one thing to me personally. Like reading a lot of, you know, the the community comments out there. I feel kind of dirty. Having a child with special needs, special education is taken so dirty looking like we cost all this money and we but I, I mean, the first things that happen are they want our kids medical billing information. So to see such a deficit by special education is so confusing to me. And even that everybody thinks that's putting us in debt. Claremont's never been fully staffed to meet all the needs. We are out of compliance every day on it before now, who knows for how much longer. So it just feels so dirty to have special education targeted every time every financial talking comes about. I just want to put that out there for everybody to think about when they're saying those things, like those darn special needs kids.  The second thing, because the attorney is here, right? I just wonder if there's a conversation because it seems a really good time with the needs that we have to be hiring because we obviously we're lacking in many.
NEXT> Eric Abbey: Is there any talk about contract? Making them better. Let's stop paying people that kind of screw us over. Let's stop paying them. Leave. Are there any talks of of

[16872-134] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: still not going to be fixing everything right now. Two and just a few more updates and going through. So just as a regular principles, I mean superintendents report right now we have a lot of meetings recently I have personally met with some legislators.
TEXT> I've met with, Commissioner Davis  via zoom and things, discussing some ideas. We had talked about some ways, looking at the deficit, looking at some other ways we can help support. They are reaching out. I will appreciate that. To find other, support personnel across the state who can help meet with us.  Meeting with the commissioner. Excuse me, the chancellor of the community college system, looking at all different options just to see connections that we have. I met with Senator Shaheen,  and looking at ways that they can support us as well. We are getting notoriety, good or bad sometimes, but just people are looking to support us and I appreciate that.  And how we can make sure we are, you know, I'll be writing some wrongs and totally fairness and making sure that we have what we do. And I appreciate the comments about the students and a big shout out to the students and all the staff, too. And I know it's coming out of burden to families right now, and I wish I could alleviate all of that. We have some more plans and I'll get into that when we get into the bluff closure piece. But really looking at I met today with Dick, and Gerard just talking about the Stephens Alumni Association.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so how can they help? And we have a shout out and we have some more things to share with that in a minute under our agenda item on

[16872-153] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: want to be part of that success as a member of our school board. Thank you. Mr. Putnam is well known to our community, and he had an abbreviated letter. But many of us know and many in the community know Mr. Putnam as well.
TEXT> Dear Claremont School Board, my purpose in applying for the vacant seat on the Claremont School Board is to offer my sincerity and experience to the Claremont School Board and the City of Claremont, with the goal of providing both an appropriate and fiscally responsible education experience to our children. Thank you, Mr. Putnam. And then the final letter is from Mr. Kevin Tyson. I'm writing to express my interest in filling the vacancy left by Frank Sprague and to serve out the remainder of his term. For more than three years, I have served on the Claremont Community Media Center board, where I also produced a candidate interview program that helps inform and engage our residents. I currently serve on the City Council's Energy Advisory Committee, and previously contributed to its Policy Committee, gaining experience in consensus building and local governance within our schools. I have tutored students at the Alternative High School and supported the source title  for work by assisting Assistant Superintendent Mike Kosky with Survey Data Management. I also volunteered at the Claremont Makerspace. I also volunteer at the Claremont Makerspace,  where I have taught classes on using AI tools to help align school board policy with state and federal requirements. In addition to civic service, I bring over four decades of professional leadership experience, having held roles as vice president, senior vice president, executive director and managing Director and in major financial institutions.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: These role requires strong fiduciary responsibilities, accountability, and in some cases, participation in forensic audits. Experience that I believe will be invaluable to the school board. I'm deeply motivated to

[16872-160] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: the students. And I'll give you a very simplified explanation when I'm talking about and again, not all inclusive. So for a school provide a high quality, effective learning environment. The parent helped set a positive tone for learning with the child and the student.
TEXT> Ask questions when I'm not sure about a lesson or assignment. Second, community engagement and celebration continue to be vitally important. And fortunately, in this community, we already have a strong foundation. Take a look at the ongoing community fundraising. Our successful Welcome Back to School festival. Festivals are well attended and received, and almost every home sporting event. I believe we can nurture and grow this culture of caring and support by expanding those same celebrations to include both academics and the arts, and I often wonder what hanging and academic celebration banner in our school, similar to those in the high school gym. I wonder what that would do for our students and for our citizens. And the same goes for our significant arts programs. Thirdly, our teachers, educational staff, and administration. While pay and benefits are important, I believe they are not the sole determinant in recruiting and retaining staff. One need only to look at the devoted, lengthy careers of some of our current teachers and a few administrators. Lewis, as well as our retirees in this district, some of whom were with us for decades. It's my belief that if we provide adequate compensation and combine it with a true sense of teacher agency in overcoming teacher in efficacy, we can help attract and retain quality staff and eliminate burnout. And that helps to foster a sense of belonging within our schools.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: In other words, elevate the teacher voice to understand and address what they need. Now I'm going to use a military example that I learned long ago. Ask soldiers what

[16872-161] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: belief that if we provide adequate compensation and combine it with a true sense of teacher agency in overcoming teacher in efficacy, we can help attract and retain quality staff and eliminate burnout. And that helps to foster a sense of belonging within our schools.
TEXT> In other words, elevate the teacher voice to understand and address what they need. Now I'm going to use a military example  that I learned long ago. Ask soldiers what they need, listen to their feedback, and then take action. Creating a sense of teacher efficacy individually and collectively will lead to positive outcomes for our students.  Help create a climate where people want to come to work and in our case, and more importantly, stay. Third question asked if we had time to look at the New Hampshire School Board Association website, and I certainly did, I reviewed the governance and accountability, the role of the school board, as well as the school board self-assessment form. The next question that was asked of us talks about the rule, the role of a school board member.  And I'm going to get to the nitty gritty of the question. It says, given the restrictions and the need to have discussions regarding issues that members care about,  how would you, as a new member, participate in important and non divisive debate?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: An important trait of a high functioning team is respect, and one way to model that is through active listening. Or they used to remind my own children and my

[16872-166] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: dedicated communications staff member, so that helps. So the website address very easy WWWDV is in Victor tom.org wsdvt.org. And I'm going to give you a little background on this city. The city is a school district that quote unquote not rich by any means.
TEXT> In the space of about one square mile, there's about 7000 people. It's from most densely populated city, and somewhere around 20 languages are spoken into public schools.  Now, I'm not saying their website is to be all, end all, but we would do well to consider, to explore and see what we can borrow. And again, that's just one small part of the puzzle to improve credibility and in my mind, help restore trust. Next question asked how would you demonstrate your support for public education? Was it real clear to me the intent, the direction of this question? So I'm going to answer this. As a taxpayer, I demonstrate my support for public education, specifically Claremont, by continuing to resist the sirens call to move south to a state where in my particular case, I would be exempt from property taxes. I love Claremont, we chose this city in January of 2000 because of things like the parks and the community, programs like Hallowell, and the myriad number of opportunities we saw for us before we decided to have a family. And on February 15th, 2000, we became  homeowners here. We've raised our kids here, and the school district did very well by my children.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And while we don't have the biggest or the best house in the city for tax purposes, our place is the only one my kids have known as home and

[16872-168] Don Lavalette | Applicant for the vacant school board seat [name normalized to the can | 2025-10-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: we all struggle with personal biases, whether it's deciding what food to eat, where to buy groceries, who we associate with, etc. but being part of a successful team marriage or in this case a board is one of give or take, give and take.
TEXT> Excuse me. Tuning out and turning down those biases and realizing you won't always get your way. And at the end of the day, you're part of a team or a family, something bigger than you. And in this case, a board. Always remember why we are here with a responsibility to the taxpayer and our children. And as Reverend Nye stated so eloquently in 1824, management of our schools is highly necessary and important for the instruction and benefit of the rising generation, the rising generation still applicable today. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Does any the board have any questions?

[16872-228] Kevin Tyson | Applicant for the vacant school board seat (self-identified) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It's part of the article that you had written and it said that Claremont doesn't have a deficit of care, it has a deficit of fit. And then you ended that with, that's not noble. It's negligent.
TEXT> Yes. Because  while we spend a tremendous amount of effort with IEPs and everything else trying to address the individual students, we're still marching everybody through one great at a time. We need to. I think, you know, like I said, not only do we need to have the funding follow the students, you need to have the education driven by the parents  to be what the parents want to see. When we have kids, we take on a number of obligations. We got to feed them, clothe them housing and provide them with an education. The obligation, the obligatory is the parents. It's not the school,  the obligation. Well, the obvious one is the kids, but the other obligations are all of us in the community. These are people who've been to grow up and, you know, serve on juries and vote, you know, do all of the other 12 things that we are obligated to do for the state. And I think we need to, as they demonstrate in this building on a daily basis, be incredibly flexible in the options we provide to the parents to fulfill their obligations.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16872-256] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-10-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.
TEXT> I would like to speak on behalf of Mr. Love because, he made a more persuasive argument in support of public education. We are here to support public education. And, we I think we're in a difficult position at the time. That's obvious. And we don't need more chaos.  We need a stabilizing, situation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Peterson, do you have any comments?

[16872-339] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I had more.
TEXT> Oh, and Mr. Peterson has more good news. And on behalf of the board and the district, in particular, all the students in our district, the generosity of this community is absolutely overwhelming,  but not unanticipated. We have seen time and time again that Claremont pulls together and does what it needs to do to help their people. And so on behalf of the board, the students and the staff, we thank you all. And have something to add.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So, I the notes without on social media that I want you to recognize the Claremont Savings Bank with a donation of $100,000 to the Stevens High School Alumni Association.

[16872-496] James O'Shaughnessy | District Counsel (Drummond Woodsum) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So depending upon if they have any credentials things like that. So you know, there's a good.
TEXT> There's like a sort of a labor law issue of having people working and not paying them a wage, like. So if you asked me as a lawyer, I'd say you can't have people performing work on behalf of the district for free without paying them a wage, that you'd be violating the Fair Labor Standards Act and probably several state laws.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: So what if you pay them $1?

[16872-642] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Second. There you go.
TEXT> Second. Okay. Any discussion? All in favor of authorizing Mr. Angel to sign. A document management. Representation. Letter on, on the behalf of the board, say I.
NEXT> Multiple: I II.

[16872-649] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. And thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just have some a question to ask. That kind of is connected with the audit, and maybe you can help with this. It's not this audit in particular,  but the, state of New Hampshire, on the behalf of the federal government, audits districts intermittently related to grant management. So it's a Bureau of Federal compliance. I know that we have been audited intermittently on our last audit was 2324. And we received that would developed as a result of that. Yeah. But it's just awesome for the public and to help me understand. So I was questioning why we hadn't received one of these federal fiscal grant management reports yearly. So I went to the Department of Education website, and they have actually a several recipient fiscal risk assessment report, which interestingly enough, Claremont is not has not been selected to be audited next year. Right.  So, and the criteria that they use to audit selecting districts changes year to year, and they give a percentage amount to specific indicators such as how  how many grant dollars. And actually, I think staff turnover in the business office is one of the triggers. And a multiple finding in all of our audits has been staff turnover at the Saw office.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And just for the board to know, to be aware of and the public to beware of, that's a problem because, as Mr. Campo has indicated, when you're asking another

[16872-708] Patrick O'Hearn | Human Resources Director, SAU 6 (sentence continuation) | 2025-10-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. You.
TEXT> And you advise. School care on behalf of the employer. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Lauren. Anybody else? I have.

[16872-729] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Special education.
TEXT> And this describes the process. If a family requests an out of district evaluation for their child, it aligns everything with the procedures, the costs, the recommendation, observations, records review that we do within our own district if we do an in-house evaluation. So this is to be sure  that an out of district evaluation follows the same procedures. We, we have an older one. It's not as extensive as this. This was recommended by our legal counsel's firm. And we also, as a policy committee subcommittee, are recommending that we not only approve New Hampshire license, but also because we're so close to Vermont contiguous state. So those two pieces are included.  Also, we we should really have included a rate schedule from the administration and also making available parent guardian request information about where they can conduct those evaluations. Done. So that's for the administration to follow through. The policy subcommittee reviewed this policy and we are presenting this to you. You want to we can do that. This would be a first read. I would recommend, if you've read it and agree with what we're coming forward that we adopted tonight. I don't see that. So let's do one by one. So I'll make the I move that the we have a first read and adoption for policy IABAB special education evaluation second. Any discussion I didn't see anything that. Jumped out to. Me on any of these. Important. This one is. Kind of.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Seemed more than I agree. Kind of RSA driven. And. You know, industry driven. Want me to amend the motion to include all three policies? I think that's the most

[16872-798] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-10-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So do you need a vote? Did we vote?
TEXT> Yes. We need a movement. Well, all in favor of the motion as stated. Say I, I, I, not opposed. Motion passes. Thank you. Thank you. I know everybody is tired, but if we could, if you could just grace me with making sure that our agenda for next week or next meeting is  out, we're going to review the New Hampshire School Board, Association delegate assembly resolutions, continuing resolutions. There'll be a full throated discussion about the intern position, including what the affiliation is at the of the school of the university that they're working with,  the salary breakdown of why that they're being offered the salary and benefits, whether or not that we can bill for their services if they are working under another. Licensed clinical licensed provider. You are there any other questions that we want to ensure, that are that Miss Kennedy is prepared to answer? If anybody has any questions about the interns, could you please email Miss Kennedy or Chelsea to forward it to Miss Kennedy? So she has an opportunity to, dig around and find out the what, the where and the how. And please include Chelsea. Can we also have an update on where our administrative staff is? I know we have an issue related to not having a certified special education. Director and how we're going to manage that for our students. And is there any other agenda items that folks would like to have on the agenda?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We will have a budget update.

[16882-34] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: but I can send those tomorrow. Okay, so the first thing we start with when we do this presentation, and this is really just the, you know, the, the basic legal structure and, and traditional practices apply to school board school districts in New Hampshire.
TEXT> But we start with three core principles, because they're really very important to understanding, you know, where some of the lines exist, why you exist, and and so forth. RSA 191 a one and I'm sure you all know that RSA is the statute. Sometimes we'll be referring to some numbers that we  have the prefix e d. That's just a Department of Education regulation. But RSA 1891 a paragraph one,  shall be the duty of the school board to provide a district expense, elementary and secondary education for all pupils who reside in the district. That is that is why school board your you exist why the school boards exist. And I know we have two separate districts here. And fulfilling that duty is really your only function. And if you didn't have that function, then you wouldn't need to exist as a school board.  But we try to parse some of those words. It means different things to different people. And you also have to I don't think you have to remember, because I think you all remember that you have different constituencies. So, yes, you have you have parents, you have students, you have, you have members of the public, you have members of the public who are on fixed incomes.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And you have to take all of those things into account when you're, you know, trying to make decisions on behalf of your district and your community. But one of

[16882-35] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: think you have to remember, because I think you all remember that you have different constituencies. So, yes, you have you have parents, you have students, you have, you have members of the public, you have members of the public who are on fixed incomes.
TEXT> And you have to take all of those things into account when you're, you know, trying to make decisions on behalf of your district and your community. But one of the things we we would point out is when you're at a crossroads in your your own personal space for how do I vote on this particular event? I mean, occasionally it will happen that you you'll be conflicted and will have a difficult time, you know, deciding one way or the other. It's a good place to, to reflect as to what your function is, you know, why are you here? You're here to educate your kids and in your community. And, yes, you have these other,  you know, these other considerations. But in the end. That's why you're here. So just a reminder that sometimes that might tip the scales and make your decision making a little bit easier. So that's the first part of principle. Second one the collective authority of the school board. One thing that often comes as a surprise to newly elected people, and even even to experience school board members, is that when you're elected to serve on a school board, you have no authority other than to participate as a board member at a board meeting.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And so it's a little different. The public can participate in one way. But once the public comment period is over, they only get to participate if they're, you know,

[16882-37] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: chair. Interestingly, if you if you poke around all the New Hampshire statutes. Number one, you won't find anything that says school board members have any authority whatsoever. It's always the board. So all of the statutes, all of the regulations talk about the board.
TEXT> The only place where you even see reference to a chair is in 91, a paragraph two I mean, colon two, talking about who gets to declare when there's an emergency for an emergency meeting. That's the only place where a chair is even recognized in the statutes. So it's it's basically based on tradition.  Tradition that we carried over from from England and English common law. So what what can what type of authority can the board delegate? Well, they can delegate administrative. Thanks.  So when the chair is elected, the chair presides over the meeting. The chair probably is the person that donated to sign documents on behalf of the board. After the board has made a decision.  The chair,  often acts as the spokesperson in certain circumstances. There are boards that designate somebody else as a spokesperson.  They're instances where you might have a chair who does a lot of traveling and is not always available or just doesn't like to be a spokesperson. So you can designate somebody else.  You oftentimes will have committees that have specific projects. So a building committee perhaps, and it may be that the chair of the building committee is best suited to speak to the building project rather than the chair of the board.
NEXT> Will Phillips: So just those types of things. But what you can't delegate to an individual or even to a committee, are those things that should be determined by the board itself.

[16882-38] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: can designate somebody else. You oftentimes will have committees that have specific projects. So a building committee perhaps, and it may be that the chair of the building committee is best suited to speak to the building project rather than the chair of the board.
TEXT> So just those types of things. But what you can't delegate to an individual or even to a committee, are those things that should be determined by the board itself. So those things that are, you know, require a a collective decision by the board. Are always maintained by the board. There's the only two. There might be a third one that  was you know, it escapes me as a very minor, hardly used one or the two that are,  you know, maybe most commonly, of course, I'm forgetting. The second most common one is the student.  Oh, I know it's the check manifest. So the first one is student discipline. There's a statute that actually says that student discipline. So if you have to have a hearing for student discipline, a committee can do that. Committee of free board members can do that.  And then the second one is the check manifest. I don't, you know, every district kind of handles  check manifests a little differently. However, the requirement is that either the board approves all payments made by the treasurer or two or more members so authorized by the board to do so. So you can have this this, you know, some part of the board doing things on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Will Phillips: And those are the only two places where statutes say, guess what? Less than a quorum of the board can can take action. The third, really core principle is the

[16882-78] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: warning that, you know, it might be a legal change. So there might be a statute that requires you to do something. Cell phones. There's a good example. So we we've had a policy in our, you know, sample database for for 30 years, probably.
TEXT> And some districts had already adopted one. They had a different code, but I had sent out a, you know, updated version with the passage of this law. And  I've already found two districts. They have two different cell phone policies in their manual because they had their own code.  So just just a helpful suggestion.  So next, next, you know, area of, of  sort of administration and school board relationship. Is, is budget. And one thing about budget is and not just budget, but the spending of the money. That is a that is the fiscal  expression of policy. So any when you're setting your budget, you are deciding, here's where we're going to spend money. Now, obviously, you know, the vast majority of your budget is contractual and you don't really have much say about it. But then there are the other parts where you do,  and those decisions are  are given to you to put in your proposed budget and you use you have I think I know this. So you both both of the districts are annual meeting including Claremont. Right. Okay. So the voters have the final say, but your proposed budget is you're suggesting to the voters this is what will serve our students and our community and our business district best.
NEXT> Will Phillips: The the you know, the voters might tell you otherwise. And that's okay. That's their prerogative. But then once you have your budget, what you have is a bottom line

[16882-194] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: a tenured person and they request a hearing, the board might come to a different, you know, different conclusion and reinstate that person to the position. But that's the only way that somebody who is not nominated can remain in that position. For other employees.
TEXT> So non  professional employees and there's some there's some nuances in there. But just for the sake of this. We'll talk about professional professional that have teaching responsibilities.  But also your principal your media specialist and your guidance counselors are all within that sort of definition.  Other folks who have certifications may or may not be included.  And you, you know, you have to look at this specific person and so forth. Hiring of other employees. So these, you know, your your food staff, workers, your transportation employees, if you employ them directly, your,  custodians, your coaches,  you know, all all those other folks,  you can, treat them the same way you do teachers and require that the board approve every single  hire.  Or you can simply have a policy that allows the superintendent to do that and just have personnel reports  back to the,  you know, back to the board. So at least you know who's working for you.  I can tell you that the school board in Manchester is not, you know, spending a lot of time deciding on who's cleaning up the gym on Saturdays after the rec, you know, rec department and uses the gym.  But,  you know, the Hill School District, all of you know, 75 kids.
NEXT> Will Phillips: They're very involved in who's, you know, in their building and dealing with that one school that they have. That's a place, you know, when we talked about those shifting

[16882-199] Will Phillips | Staff Attorney and Director of Policy Services, NH School Boards Assoc | 2025-10-06
PREV> Will Phillips: of an issue. Again, you know, you you, you live in a community, you don't live in a bubble, and you're not required to adhere to the jury standard of, you know, really being distanced and not not have much information about a particular thing.
TEXT> Your, your elected officials and hopefully you kind of know what's going on in the schools and you know what's going on in your community. So you're aware of these things and you'll hear information from, you know, it might be in in the papers, it might be on social media, you might hear it from your kids or your spouse. That that's okay. It's the, you know, the passive,  collection of information that we just, you know, go through where we live in a community. That's one thing. It's the, the, the taking affirmative steps to get more information is what's prohibited. So not required to remain in the dark information on a need to know basis. So if you do have an event that maybe is, you know, leading its way into the school board,  level, it is okay for the superintendent to give you information that isn't specific evidence gathering. So, you know, you you know, you all heard that the kid was removed from the school  by the police. They got to tell you why. That's okay. But but, you know, finding out, you know,  what's going on at the kids life at home. And, you know, that type of thing that might come into a hearing is is  not something you need. The more information you have and the more somebody can point to your being affirmatively gaining information, the easier it is.
NEXT> Will Phillips: Number one, the hardware it is to remain impartial, but the easier it is for attorneys to create the issue. The idea that you are not impartial and and that

[16896-9] Molly Tremblay | Public commenter, Ward 1; early childhood educator (as announced; not  | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Any any objection to the changes to the agenda? All right. Seeing none, we'll move forward with the genda as mentioned. It start with citizens comments. Citizens wish to. Just need your name and ward, please.
TEXT> My name is Molly Tremblay. I'm a Ward one resident. Good evening. My name is Molly Tremblay, and I'm a Ward one resident and an early childhood educator in this city. I speak tonight not just as a resident, but as someone who works every day with the families and children that this board serves. Claremont has faced immense challenges over the last six months. We have been through a lot. However, what I have witnessed is a community that is overwhelmingly risen to the occasion. People, strangers have come together to organize fundraisers, volunteer their time and skills, and help everything fall into place so we can support sports, the arts, and other extracurriculars and programs for our next generation. These experiences are vital, and it is through the creative solutions of this community that our children continue to get the opportunities they deserve. I see on the agenda that there's going to be a discussion on the estimated tax rate calculation. I have two things. First, I would like to take the time to sincerely thank Mr. Matt Angel for his tireless work and dedication as a consultant brought in when the crisis arose. You stayed steadfast, putting in hard, long hours to manage this complex financial situation, crunching and organizing a mess of numbers that would make my head spin.
NEXT> Molly Tremblay: Thank you. Second, I would like to note and stress my primary message the families and citizens of Claremont are facing real struggles. My field of work has changed significantly.

[16896-70] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (opens superintendent's report) | 2025-10-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yes. Thank you. All right. Agenda item number two is our superintendents report.
TEXT> Okay. Good evening. So I have a few updates.  I would like, for the interest of time right now, if it's pleases the board to get right to these, part about the psychology intern update. And then I can get into my report, if that's okay. Yeah. Okay. McLeod, who's our acting director of student services right now. I'm asking you to come on up, please, and share the report that you have presented about the student technologies.  My name is.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Jessica McLeod. I am the assistant director for student support services. In the absence of having a director of student services and standing in and reporting out on the school

[16896-72] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: one school psychologist. Currently, we have about 1500 students enrolled in the district. School psychologists are responsible for evaluating students from preschool age. So those age 3 to 5 all the way up to 12th grade. Evaluations also include those that are out of district.
TEXT> So students that we have placed at various,  out of district placements and those that are at Claremont Christian and charter schools. So things like are places like Riverview Academy, based on our numbers and how comprehensive the assessments that we're doing are?  This would equate to about roughly three full time school psychologists.  Our numbers are currently tracking at about 200 evaluations each year. Those evaluations include initial avowal. And then we're also legally obligated to reevaluate students every three years to determine if they're still eligible for special ed services.  Typically, a school psych on average handles about 40 to 70 evaluations. The time frame for those is about, on average, 15 to 20 hours per avowal. 5 to 6 of those hours may include direct testing. So this might be things like,  standard standardized assessments that you're doing with a student, clinical  observations or interviews.  And then the remaining time is used to to score, interpret, consult with parents and staff and report out.  I will tell you,  given our demographics. So we have about 30% of our students are for for special services. We have twice the number of students that are intellectually disabled.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: About twice the number for emotional disturbance and are developmental delay are usually not just in one area. So they may not just be in speech and language impairment, but

[16896-73] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: is used to to score, interpret, consult with parents and staff and report out. I will tell you, given our demographics. So we have about 30% of our students are for for special services. We have twice the number of students that are intellectually disabled.
TEXT> About twice the number for emotional disturbance and are developmental delay are usually not just in one area. So they may not just be in speech and language impairment, but they're likely we see delays in like adaptive skills. Some motor difficulties. Many of them are medically complex and that leads to more comprehensive evaluations being needed.  So even the train knows that we're doing  a lot of times because even things like Covid have compacted that. So in the past we've done a file review, and now we have to have  a more updated information on these students. And so that lends to having a more comprehensive assessment on them. Based on the aggregate aggregated data I've seen, as well as reaching out to some of the resources I have, which is I sit on a currently on a  board with other directors in the area, and so I reached out to several of them about what the average salary looks like. I've also used resources such as the Bureau of Labor Statistics and more present.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Excuse me.

[16896-88] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: caseload. When we looked at filling the position in the past, we've used private psychologists that were in the area. The rates were between 130 and $175 an hour. Boothby specifically was a virtual school psychologist, and that was about $145 an hour. So if.
TEXT> You think of that in terms of the length of some of these evaluations, it can become pretty expensive. I think the other piece of this is that, and we were seeing this with other related service staff. They're not in person. There's such a shortage of them that we're having to use virtual evaluators,  and it can be pretty clunky and cumbersome in terms of getting that infrastructure for the students to be tested. It often many of our students don't have the prerequisite skills to sit on a computer and do those evaluations. It really has to be done by someone who can be in person. Take the time to get to know the kill the child, build that rapport with them to get the best testing results. So these interns, I think there's a lot of misinformation out there. And I just wanted to clarify. Plymouth State  offers the only nationally accredited school psych program in Massachusetts, Vermont and Maine.  And these are where these students come from. They have completed all of their coursework as graduate students. They are under a letter of a statement of eligibility through the Doe.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Now, school psychologist, because there's a shortage, you can work as a psychologist. With a statement of eligibility under through the Department of Ed. You can also. We also have

[16896-91] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: So.
TEXT> When we get to Medicaid, I think there's some confusion around this too. So a fraction of the school psych services are billable if you think about things like consultation. Report writing, those things aren't billable for us. The biggest bang for our buck with school psychologist is really the counseling  and some of the evaluations. So anything that is when a student has an IEP, the services and interventions that are put in that IEP are to, to, allow that student to have access to their learning. Sometimes a student will have a medical diagnosis. And those services  are  are also medically billable.  So when that happens, we have to be certain as an IEP team  that that the those evaluations are medically necessary. And we have to also prescribe them into the IEP at the same time that we're looking to evaluate them. The problem with that is one of the issues right now is that we don't have enough special educators to amend these IEPs to prevent us from being audited. So if if we feel like we need to evaluate a student and it's medically necessary, we also have to, in tandem, make sure that we're our IEPs are shored up at the same time. The other piece of this I think that's important is trying to evaluations the ones that are billable, you have to the student also has to have Medicaid.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: The, the parent has to be willing to kind of identify that the student has or willing to share that the child has Medicaid and also sign off, that they're

[16896-94] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: legally obligated to have we run the risk of delayed and missed assessments, inadequacy in the quality of the assessments and or the the complexity of these assessments that need to be done and appropriate and appropriate interventions. We run the risk of doughy complaints.
TEXT> So complaints with the Department of Ed, there is increased chances of litigation and legal fees, compensatory services. So if  we can't provide evaluations in a timely manner, parents can actually ask for independent evaluations and then we have to reimburse them for those things.  We also run the risk of if we do not spend at the this. So as this has been explained to me, because this was new for me as I step into this role, if we do not spend the same amount  on special ed as we did last year to assure that we're,  demonstrating a maintenance of effort, we could run the risk of losing federal funding. And then the other piece of this is it just shows a disproportionate impact on some of our vulnerable populations. So if we don't, we can't offer quality assessments. It really does impact our kids. And getting them. The services that they need. They the interns do offer a continuity of services. They help address this critical shortage. I can tell you that in addition to some of the,  the, higher wages that they're seeing down south that are dry. You know, they're they're definitely a lot of these interns are looking to move into Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire because there's higher wages.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: We also are competing with a lot of these private, private companies like Boothby and Silent. And because they're able to offer more competitive hourly wages. And so that's another

[16896-95] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Jessica McCloud: can tell you that in addition to some of the, the, higher wages that they're seeing down south that are dry. You know, they're they're definitely a lot of these interns are looking to move into Massachusetts and southern New Hampshire because there's higher wages.
TEXT> We also are competing with a lot of these private, private companies like Boothby and Silent. And because they're able to offer more competitive hourly wages.  And so that's another challenge for us. And so part of, you know, hiring these interns was to address this shortage, shore up medicaid next year.  And really, the retention of personnel, I can tell you, I was a paid school psych intern here five years ago, and I've stayed here because of the quality of, the related service staff that I work with. The paraprofessionals, just the special ed department in general. I have not seen a huge turnover until recent years, and I feel like a real sense of commitment in trying to make sure that we hire the right people to to deliver the services that our kids are entitled to. Our kids are our biggest investment in this district. And, while I wasn't the one that was responsible for hiring them, I definitely was involved in that process. So I felt a responsibility to communicate that with you guys.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So just.

[16896-128] Jessica McCloud | Assistant Director of Student Support Services, SAU 6 (acting in absen | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Where they mean they have their own caseload.
TEXT> So they're picking  so, they have a number of evaluations that they're doing in a certain building. So for example, in nard, one of our, one of our school sites, Jocelyn is the school psychologist for dessert. And so she is responsible for going to the preschool meetings,  consulting with the preschool, the person who's setting up referrals right now,  meeting with parents. She's also working on the evaluations at dinner two at the same time. Any in addition to those, they have some responsibility. They're doing, some of the behavior management. So they have some of the functional behavior assessments for some of our students in the district. And that includes a behavior. So the behavior interventions.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Conducting the assessments, the evaluations, and then there with the certified school psychologist for the meetings that they attend right now.

[16896-465] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: Well, you don't want. You don't want.
TEXT> If I. I'm sorry. My only my only comment if I can just respond to you. We would not have anyone providing services to our children if we did not have these people in place. I understand your question is about billable under Medicaid. There are restrictions in terms of what services can be billed in that, even for someone who is has that right? I am.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: But we're not taking anything.

[16896-467] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: But we're not taking anything.
TEXT> But for us at this point, it was, it is and it has been for a long time having people who can provide services to our students.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: I fully.

[16896-489] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-10-15
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I is weapons on school policy on property and it defines both the RSA and federal statutes. The policy Committee is recommending that the language be members of the public who violate this policy will be reported to local law enforcement, rather than the word.
TEXT> May we want stronger language for that. You had all of these in your packet J I students rights and responsibilities. This is a priority policy. It's very brief refers to board policies regarding student disciplinary procedures. Then we have JLDBA behavior management and intervention process. It adds one sentence, talks about an ongoing review of the policy. And then those are all of the student policies. So I would like if we would a motion to if you want to do a first read and we can bring it back.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What's the recommendation of the policy committee?

[16951-13] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID) | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Sorry.
TEXT> That's okay. I appreciate this opportunity to address the board. I stand before this board as a concerned community member about the current process for filling the vacancy on the board. The board remains evenly split between two candidates. Both have strong qualifications. But this division underscores the importance of making the appointment process as transparent, inclusive and fair as possible. To that end, I respectfully ask the board to open the search to additional applicants from the community, allowing a wider pool of candidates would help build consensus among current board members and strengthen public confidence in the integrity of the process and open process. Ensures the board's final decision reflects the diverse voices and interests of the district it serves. Our schools our students deserve leadership selected through a process that emphasizes openness, collaboration and public trust. I encourage the board to seize this opportunity to show these values by reopening the search for this essential position. Thank you for your attention and commitment to serving the community. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just so the community is aware, we allow folks to speak on agenda items that we are going to be voting on prior after a board discussion, but prior to

[16951-32] Rebecca | Claremont Middle School teacher; SREA building representative; Ward 1  | 2025-11-05
PREV> Rebecca: have no, no solid nurse. And consistency is the word that keeps coming to mind. Yes. Sometimes there is a place to go for to send children when they need a break, when they're starting to get dysregulated. But it's not somebody, not always there.
TEXT> There are two places they technically could go, but we never quite sure of the status of that. And if they're dealing with one issue, then that's it. The room is closed. We used to have a behaviorist there that would be able to come to you to say, yep, you know,  I'll kind of check out the situation and be able to decide whether that kid needs to go out or not. These students need that consistency. They need to have leadership that is consistent. They need a nurse that is consistent. We need this. Your teachers are suffering. I don't know how many times I hear, I don't know how much more I can take. I'm so glad that I'm close to retirement. What are we going to do next year? Because nobody has any thought that this is going to get better, and you guys have been clear about that. But I hope that you are starting to anticipate how you're going to keep who you have, because this is not sustainable. So please, I know this has been hard and you have been doing so much work, but it's not over. Please address these issues. Your students of Claremont need this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.

[16951-38] Cassandra Edwards | Disnard School teacher; SREA building representative; Ward 3 (self-ID) | 2025-11-05
PREV> Cassandra Edwards: they don't know how to handle it. And we don't have the support as much as our administrators are always moving. You never see them sitting anywhere unless there's nobody in the building, because they are always trying to support teachers the best they can.
TEXT> But to mimic what miss said, we're not okay. We're all doing the best we can. We're all here because we are committed to doing everything we can for the students and for the town, but we can't. We can't do that at the expense of ourselves. I go home every night, and I don't have anything left for my own kids, because I've spent the last 7.5 hours trying to get 247 year olds to listen, to learn, to be okay, to get along. And it is exhausting. We're exhausted. We're going to be sick because we're exhausted. And there's so many of us in the building, and we don't really have the infrastructure to cover that when it happens.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.

[16951-41] Michelle | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID — first name only; a second commente | 2025-11-05
PREV> Michelle: coming to save you. Put on your oxygen mask and move forward. This whole thing is like being in a relationship with a narcissistic, significant other. We're the only ones being affected as everyone doing the work, the resilient ones, and not those showing improving.
TEXT> So many parents and teachers they are that they are not being heard or even respected. Maybe you take the time to go into the classrooms and explain to the students, our children, while you taking them away from the teachers. They adore the school they call safety and why all their dots around them  are pouring from empty cups and may, as kids are getting stuck with the crap end of the sticks instead of enjoying school as children should because others created a mess and you kids have to deal with it and then teach a lesson on how they need to be accountable for their own actions when they misbehave or do something wrong. That your hard working class helps us, but yet your education means nothing. No subs full of classes and being taught and screens all day, or having days upon days off when your parents, your advocates, and your teachers told us this would happen and should have been done before school as they saw it coming, but yet we ignore them.
NEXT> Michelle: We moved on with our own ideas and not collaboration. That's how this has been done the whole time and it's very disappointing. There have been people that have tried

[16951-56] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Just want to go through so this week is Schools Psychologist Appreciation Week. So I want to thank the school psychologist for their assessments and preparation for their IEP and 504 meetings. Their consultation for behavior prevention plans, their program development, working on behavioral programs.
TEXT> They allow us to monitor student progress and respond to student needs across the district. So we thank all of the school psychologists that we have  and appreciate you during your week. It's always a special time, but it was specially during this recognition week.  And so other thing I wanted to update quickly is congratulating the Stevens High School varsity girls soccer team. They had a one zero victory yesterday over Saint Thomas. They are now advancing to the state championship game on Saturday the eighth. Hopefully people can join at 3 p.m.. So nice that  so 3 p.m. on Saturday, they'll be at Raymond High School, at Raymond High School against Raymond High School. Sorry, at Bedford High School. So we wish them luck and congratulations. Girls soccer. That's a big accomplishment.  Families, I just want to do a shout out. We thank you for all your doing support of our work with our students. We are working on scheduling for next year and recognize that this month is really wonky, and we have a lot of days out of school and we apologize for that. So we do have parent teacher conferences on Monday the 10th of November next Monday, so we hope families  are signing up for times. All the staff are sending out there. They're available times.  And getting ready for that. So get a chance to meet with your your teachers. Get a chance to find out how your student is doing in school.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We'll make sure if you need translators, we have translators available as well. And so just a reminder, there is no school on the 10th next Monday for the parent

[16951-58] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So we appreciate your support on that and families, and we hope everybody had a great time for that. So I just want to give an update to we said we're talking about safety. So CMS student who was hit by a car on Friday.
TEXT> That student is recovering. It is okay. But we thank all the CMS administrators, Officer Simons and everyone for the response for that.  We appreciate the work on this. It was a very concerning time for our student  and our staff, obviously, and we're still redressing all the safety protocols and procedures and looking at some other options to to make sure it's as safe as possible. So in terms of the entry into school, and we'll get back to the other parts for actually in school in a moment to.  So I just wanted to give an update. There is a question about the class sizes. So what we have for maple classrooms student to teacher ratios. So kindergarten there's 54 kindergartners at Maple. And so there's a class size average of there's three classes of 18. And so that's well within the standard industry standard for students in that grade level. It's a very lovely number. What's all you. Coming from Massachusetts it would be ideal to have 18 students in kindergarten. I understand it's maybe not what we recommend or we've seen in our district here.  But that's a decent number there. So in first grade, there's 55 students for an average of 18.3.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So there's three classes of 18 or so students. And so for second grade, there's 46 students. The class size average is 15. And there's three classes of 15 was

[16951-122] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: about that. So, we'll be talking about a little bit about transportation. And so federally, we're required to make sure it's an event where a student started. We try and ideally keep a student if they started in one school, keep them in that school.
TEXT> It doesn't always geographically work. It doesn't always work transportation wise.  I will say, having come from southern New England, it's a little bit more accessible to transportation options. There's a little bit more on trained or subways or bussing that's not as available in northern New England. And it's a little bit more of a challenge.  So we do have some payments that go out and we work with and trying to find agencies that can help support. Sometimes it's not atypical to actually pay somebody who's associated with a family sometimes. And that comes through federal money.  It comes through in conjunction. So it's not always just us. It's working with another district. So we had a student say it could be sometimes across the border in Vermont. And that's something that we want to look at to is because it's an interstate, transportation arrangement. Are there you know, we're looking at all options for transportation already that exist and exploring other options to to make sure it's fiscally prudent. We also want to minimize the amount of time a student is in a transportation situation. And so we want to make sure as for McKinney Vento, that a student, you know, depending on where the school is that they may have moved to, if it's towards the end of the year, we always look at like, what's the best placement for the child?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: How long would they be there? Sometimes it's for the rest of the year. We agree to split the costs. And so it could be it could be Newport. It

[16951-123] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: want to make sure as for McKinney Vento, that a student, you know, depending on where the school is that they may have moved to, if it's towards the end of the year, we always look at like, what's the best placement for the child?
TEXT> How long would they be there? Sometimes it's for the rest of the year. We agree to split the costs.  And so it could be it could be Newport. It could be clear, I mean, Charlestown, it could be across the river.  And so we always take that into consideration is how long the student would be transporting. Is it best? Ideally, yes. It's best to keep them in the school where they started.  But  all those factors come into it. So we're just going to share that we're we're looking at costs. We're looking at centers  to make sure we've exhausted all the options to. We are working to make sure Courtney Porter's again our McKinney Vento specialists, and works with all of the schools where our students go to. Courtney, if you want to share anything else. I'm sorry, I didn't realize you were able to come, so. Thank you.  She was originally going to present, and I wasn't sure she was coming. So anything else? Tag on to please. Courtney Porter, Ward one. I am the school districts. School social worker McKinney Bentleys on DC wire.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Prior contact mental health coordinator. All the the And first and foremost, I just want to say from someone who works at a district level is a community member. I

[16951-124] Courtney Porter | Director of Wellness; School Social Worker and McKinney-Vento liaison, | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: you were able to come, so. Thank you. She was originally going to present, and I wasn't sure she was coming. So anything else? Tag on to please. Courtney Porter, Ward one. I am the school districts. School social worker McKinney Bentleys on DC wire.
TEXT> Prior contact mental health coordinator. All the the  And first and foremost, I just want to say  from someone who works at a district level is a community member.  I am so sorry to our families and our students and our teachers that we're going through this. I know that this has caused capital T trauma. I'm hearing it from my peers. I'm hearing it from my families. I'm hearing it from my students. So I want you to know that I'm very blessed that I've said this before at a board meeting. I thank the school board for not cutting my position.  And that I am working very closely with so many of our community partners. As Miss Kennedy has mentioned, we have a lot of great families, like, there are people sitting on this board right now who have donated items to Courtney's Closet, who donated money. There's people here in the audience. I'm sure there's people everywhere that, we have a network of really good stuff that's going on in the midst of all this craziness. So I just want to say thank you to everyone out there who is donating and, for Thanksgiving food boxes, make sure that you reach out to the Clement Soup Kitchen.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: And we have a lot of great organizations that are helping. We do know that the Snap benefits are coming to an end. The Claremont Elks Lodge is doing a

[16951-125] Courtney Porter | Director of Wellness; School Social Worker and McKinney-Vento liaison, | 2025-11-05
PREV> Courtney Porter: of really good stuff that's going on in the midst of all this craziness. So I just want to say thank you to everyone out there who is donating and, for Thanksgiving food boxes, make sure that you reach out to the Clement Soup Kitchen.
TEXT> And we have a lot of great organizations that are helping. We do know that the Snap benefits are coming to an end. The Claremont Elks Lodge is doing a great job at supplying  all of our schools with what we're calling community food markets. So these are items that families can take home on the weekends. Trinity church provides weekend food bags to us. And I also want to let folks know that we have, a grant with cartwheel, which is an online mental health program. And so we can help families to get telehealth so we can work with students during the school day. It's also something that a families are in need of mental health supports when they're at home. They can do some mental health supports at home. I'm currently working with the New Hampshire Department of Ed on a Safe and Supportive Schools grant, where we are looking at our tier one supports, including looking at what is our attendance look like? The loss of our  truancy officer is just greatly impacting our students ability to access their education. Scott Maple was an amazing asset to us this past year, and so right now school social workers are out.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: We're doing the boots on the ground work. I did two home visits today for students that are just really struggling to get to school. And the biggest thing that

[16951-129] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thanks, Courtney.
TEXT> So just following up with the safe and supportive grants, what I do need to look to is to talk about a group. So we have been offered a grant for 16. Thousand dollars. And so I need your approval to make sure we can accept it.  And so it's a two part piece. And so it's the Hampshire Charitable Foundation in conjunction with Dartmouth. Health. Yes. And so it's $10,000,  from Dartmouth and $6,000 from New Hampshire Charitable Foundation. And so five of the thousand dollars we are hoping to engage in a contract with. We are hope. And so they are a wellness support. And so they would allow us to have a wellness coach, specifically at the middle school right now.  And that person would be obviously vetted through all the fingerprinting, everything else, and they would sit at the middle school and be able to take tier one students who are in need of more support. And so this would be builds through insurance for the students insurances. But this particular offer would make sure that the  school can engage in the contract. It would be paid for the a $5,000 retainer. To have them join us would be paid through this grant.  And then to be able to make sure we continue to accept it.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So with this other $10,000, we have the ability to provide more food, assistance for more snacks, for more hospital need. I mean, for medical needs. Courtney, please, you have

[16951-151] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: for students to come in after that so they can see more students. It's usually not as crisis level as, you know, a bigger mental health needs. It could. Right? Absolutely. Just managing day to day stress. It's a great resource and it helps folks.
TEXT> And again, some of the students who are just sort of needing support but are not  at a crisis level of another agency that we. Only have. Absolutely.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: This in collaboration with the work that we're doing through the Car real Grant, which is again, so so the cartwheel program that we're doing that's free to students, that's

[16951-159] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just getting kids through the day or whatever the issues are, which will provide support for the middle school.
TEXT> And it's going to it's going to provide support for the students of families and the teachers.
NEXT> Unidentified: Like, yeah.

[16951-272] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: many of professional development days we've had to exchange. There will be some staff meeting time, professional development wise, and that'll be up to building principles to discuss what's happening within each building on those days that we're having staff meetings in that PD plan.
TEXT> But then we're also looking at how to make sure the instruction is keeping going. For sure. And, across the evaluation tool system as well. And  we're not ready to share tonight exactly what that's looking like. But we're really, how do we make sure, you know, we inspect what we expect. Right. And so we're students are learning teachers. And I understand and I certainly hear the concern about the numbers and things like that too. So, so meeting in the middle there. And so how do we help the staff have professional development to support the needs of the students that are in their rooms, but then also at the same time keeping the need on the, the, the academic achievement within the classrooms and things too. So splitting the difference in that part.  Thank you. And that will come under the grant manager piece too. So hopefully to have somebody to manage that very very soon.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Can we have that as an ongoing agenda item, the progress of the professional development so that we send me a quick email just so I will. Thank

[16951-542] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Year or for this year? Yes, for the high school at $17,000.
TEXT> For student first. Second. Mr. Howard seconds. Any discussion? The only thing I'd like to community to know is that special education costs are paid for by  the sending, town. So this district from where the student is coming. So the 17,000 is just for regular education expenses. So the, Claremont School District is not assume the financial burden of special education costs for that for any student that comes from out of district. Okay, okay. Any other.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Or any student that wants to come in. That's not in the district would need to pay $17,000 per year. That's correct. To be in our high school.

[16951-595] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR 'Mr. Harrington') | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: You want to give the Reader's Digest version. You came all this way tonight and you're sitting there. Sure. Come on. Come and give the Reader's Digest version then.
TEXT> So I'm sorry about the confusion. The. From our understanding. The  the the second. Meeting this month was. Going to be the presentation and then voting. To. Approve it. First meeting in December. We spent we're spending a lot of time going through the program studies. Kind of revamping the entire thing, really looking for a couple of things to make it more user friendly. We've taken really starting the introduction of career clusters. So now the conversation is going to get away from, hey, what do you want to take to graduate, to what do you want to do with your life after graduation? Here are the courses that can  get you on the path that you want. Right? So now we're really kind of looking at how do we engage students in something that's meaningful to them? We're also looking at we have access to a, a survey that kind of as a student interest survey. So now the students, when they talk to you and say, well, I don't know what I want to be, you can have a survey and say, hey, these are the things that you're really good at. Here are the careers that align with that. We are looking at,  the at 306, the new guidance, things that need to be embedded into some coursework.  Oh, what was it?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's a quick link on the agenda as well.

[16951-610] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: the next election. There are more than five months until the election in March, and that is too long to leave the post vacant. He also said that the law that he cited is not a controlling law. So, technically the board could ignore. That.
TEXT> But technically the board could ignore that. And technically the city council could choose not to act to fill the vacancy.  Over the weekend, Mr. Sprague and I had a conversation, and he  submitted a letter to the board, which I forwarded out to the board, and I will read the letter into the record. Dear chair Whitney and members of the school board, I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to formally request reinstatement to the Claremont School Board.  Serving on the board has been one of the most meaningful experiences of my post-retirement life. I remain committed to the students and staff of the district, and I must confess that I miss being on the board and the team we built. During my tenure on the board, I worked diligently to bring forward responsible budgets, improved curriculum standards, and advocated for competitive salaries for our collective bargaining units, to name a few initiatives I champion. I also was quick to volunteer for almost anything. I believe these efforts reflect my dedication to the board's goals and the broader interest of our school community. While the circumstances that led to my departure are complex, I have taken time to reflect and I feel I have much to offer in the remainder of my elected term, and perhaps beyond.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I am confident that I can return with renewed focus, a collaborative spirit, and use my professional experience for the benefit of all. I respectfully ask the board to consider

[16951-681] Kevin Tyson | Public commenter; applicant for the vacant school board seat | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'm sorry, I can't hear you, Mr. Tyson. It's not like I know it's not the microphone. If you could just raise your voice. The microphone is for the CCTV.
TEXT> I was really impressed with how much money I was able to raise for the Stevens Alumni Association. Just by threatening to run. It was. I've never made money like that in my life.  Seemed like a  backroom deal as it was going down, but I stuck with the process. I am not a professional educator. My experience with being an educator is only this year, two days a week. I'm at the other end of this building, tutoring the kids in the academy. I don't get paid for that. This is me giving back to the community. That's the kind of person that I am.  That's scary guy. And as far as education options goes. We are not in the business of getting people out of schools. We are in the business of getting information to parents. We have a website where you can find a vast array of information  about education opportunities around the state, public, private, the entire spectrum. We have fairs at different parts of the state that bring together parents and providers, and we invite the public schools at every one of these.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: So if you want to think that I have horns, feel free. But this is the person I actually am. I am contributing to the community and whatever you know

[16951-699] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm speaking in support of Mr. Lava as a public educator committed to being an advocate for students and public schools, which is the role of people on this board.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak for the motion? My opposition would be because, quite frankly, I see a school board as many other boards. And although I value, the experience and I think the experience that Mr. Lava has and has given back to the community and into the schools, to the students is valuable. We are surrounded by educators. We get all vice from educators. We are guided by educators. We are surrounded everybody we get advice from. As an educator, the only people that represents regular people and and the community is people that are outside of education that have no. And there's a there's about.
NEXT> Unidentified: Other people.

[16951-831] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: All in favor, say aye. Aye. None opposed. Motion passes.
TEXT> The  motion. The policies that we are  recommending is the policy subcommittee. B first read slash adoption are a DB drug free workplace drug free schools JFAB admission of homeless children and unaccompanied youth, which also incorporates the transportation piece that was talked about earlier. JLF reporting child abuse  and neglect. And we've added in a phrase for adult age students because the contact information is different. Deck was discussed at an earlier time. It's the addition of one sentence recommended by Mr. Angel JLDBB is suicide prevention b g board policy development which incorporates.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Those right.

[16951-909] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-11-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: cutbacks and the status of our government right now. I'm wondering if there's anything that. And not for tonight. What? What are we doing to increase applications for free and reduced lunch that families may be able to slide into during this time of need?
TEXT> Sure. Does the music thing. If I could just follow up? Yes. So I just I want to thank Taylor Trudeau publicly. And so I've asked her right now and I apologize because I, I understand the need for it. As you may have heard tonight, there's a lot of other things that are also happening. We're triaging a lot of, you know, areas of need. And so Taylor Trudeau, who's the high school music teacher, and so she's agreed to help us to be that liaison with the public. And so with that, specifically, Melissa Richmond is looking into supports potentially as an external person. And so  there are some  CBA things that we're working on in terms of,  you know, stipends and things like that too, as what does it look like? And so that kind of goes into our discussion about a whole variety of things too. And so it's just, it's not as quick and easy as we would like it to be, unfortunately. And so just people like, I hear you, I want the kids to have band, you know, I play the flute, I get it, I want it to.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so fifth to eighth grade. So like I need this to happen too. But at the same time we also need to make sure we're following all the protocols

[16958-1] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I can appreciate appreciate the pressures that you are under, but they are not relevant from a legal perspective. If the board does not feel the fill the vacancy at its next meeting, there is a risk that the City Council votes to fill it.
TEXT> From a legal standpoint, the board will have no valid or legal way to stop them, and that would be a valid appointment until the next election. There are more than five months until the election in March, and that is too long to leave the post vacant. He also said that the law that he cited is not a controlling law. So, technically the board could ignore that, but technically the board could ignore that. And technically the city council could choose not to act to fill the vacancy. Over the weekend, Mr. Sprague  and I had a conversation, and he submitted a letter to the board, which I forwarded out to the board, and I will read the letter into the record. Dear Chair Whitney and members of the school board, I hope this message finds you well. I am writing to formally request reinstatement to the Claremont School Board. Serving on the board has been one of the most meaningful experiences of my post-retirement life. I remain committed to the students and staff of the district, and I must confess that I miss being on the board and the team we built.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: During my tenure on the board, I worked diligently to bring forward responsible budgets, improve curriculum standards, and advocated for competitive salaries for our collective bargaining units, to name a

[16958-63] Kevin Tyson | Public commenter; applicant for the vacant school board seat (sentence | 2025-11-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'm sorry, I can't hear you, Mr. Tyson. It's not what I know. It's not the microphone. If you could just raise your voice. The microphone is for the CCTV.
TEXT> I was really. Impressed with how much money I was able to raise for the Stephens Alumni  Association. Just by threatening to run. It was. I've never made money like that in my life.  Seemed like a backroom deal as it was going down, but I stuck with the process. I am not a professional educator. My experience with being an educator is only this year, two days a week. I'm at the other end of this building, tutoring the kids in the academy. I don't get paid for that. This is me giving back to the community. That's the kind of person that I am. That's scary guy. And as far as education options goes. We are not in the business of getting people out of schools. We are in the business of getting information to parents. We have a website where you can find a vast array of information about education opportunities around the state, public, private, the entire spectrum. We have fairs at different parts of the state that bring together parents and providers, and we invite the public schools at every one of these.
NEXT> Kevin Tyson: So if you want to think that I have horns, feel free. But this is the person I actually am. I am contributing to the community and whatever you know

[16958-81] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm speaking in support of Mr. Lavallée as a public educator committed to being an advocate for students and public schools, which is the role of people on the scored.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak towards the motion? My opposition would be because, quite frankly, I see a school board as many other boards, and although I value,  the experience and I think the experience that Mr. Lavallée has and has given back to the community and into the schools, to the students is valuable. We are surrounded by educators. We get all from educators. We are guided by educators. We are surrounded everybody we get advice from.  As an educator, the only people that represents regular people and and the community is people that are outside of education that have no. And there's a there's a educators. Excuse me. There is obviously a specific bias that comes when you step onto a board and you have experience. I would have a tremendous amount of bias if I stepped on a board that was closely linked to my profession. So for me, a school board should reflect its community more, and we should have voices that are disparate. We should have. I wish more parents would be able to join, but so many parents have demanding schedules and are overwhelmed with their families. And so for me, I think we have plenty of educators giving us advice.  And  quite frankly, being the president of the union is it is is a biased position to have come from. And so I don't necessarily take that as a positive.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Unions have an important, important role and unions are respected. And as an individual that has been on the negotiating committee, I have negotiated for the best pay that this

[16976-146] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-11-13
PREV> Matt Angell: that, it will save about 12 days worth of time. Okay. We're having difficulties, and the difficulties seem to be on our side of the house. So we're, It's been ongoing problem right now. I'm hoping to have that up and running by next week.
TEXT> We have just turned on, employee access and  the the the all three districts have owned employee access for about three years now. And what it is, it's it's an employee portal. So it's an employee self-serve portal. So the employees can go in there and they can get copies of their paychecks, copies of their W-2. So if they're going to go out and get like a mortgage, they can, they can download that information and that removes time from the saw. Also, we're going to be looking at seeing if we can do  our time sheets through that. Okay. We're going to try to do electronic contracting through that.  You can look at your and vacation accruals right now and you can get a copy of your contract through this. Okay.  Unfortunately, trying to get Claremont and Unity on has been difficult, and I'm hoping to get a link to get both of those  out to the employees by tomorrow. They said they're trying to get it out by tomorrow. And the problem is, is, if you look at the database, there are three entities within the same database. And so they have to build special links  because say you six is the parent and the two school districts are the children. And so they have to build special links for those.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. So we're trying to do things to buy ourselves time and become more efficient. But we do welcome others to provide guidance. And actually we're getting copies of from

[16982-3] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: zero victory over Raymond High School, secured by the first half goal from Peyton Ferland and an impenetrable defense anchored by senior goalie Audrina Pelton, marking the program's first state title in 37 years and a triumphant against all odds story for the Claremont community.
TEXT> And whereas this championship represents not only athletic excellence but also the perseverance of student athletes, coaches, families and supporters who rallied amid challenges to keep extracurricular programs alive and embodying the spirit of against all odds we play on. And Whereas the achievements of these young women serve as an inspiration to students across the Claremont School District promoting values of hard work, sportsmanship and community pride. Now, therefore, be it resolved at the Claremont School Board on behalf of the Claremont School District and the entire community, thereby congratulates the Stevens High School Lady Cardinals soccer team, their coaches, staff, and families on their outstanding accomplishment as a 2025 and high AA Division three State Champions. And be it further resolved that November 8th, 2025, and henceforth will be recognized in the Claremont School District as a day to celebrate this historic victory and the enduring legacy of the Lady Cardinals. Stamping and out the proclamations and the roses for us. And we're going to start with the coaches. And, we have  Tim Saint-Pierre.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. How about, Addison DeRosa? I don't care. Payton from.

[16982-37] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaking in citizens' comments a | 2025-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: Disney Elementary School staff were able to purchase a shirt if they wish. We'll keep working on how we can get these out into other buildings as well, but our pride does not go away. And I think Our Lady Cardinals, showed that quite well.
TEXT> That great and hard from Claremont. It's in our kids, it's in our educators. And we're just proud to be here. So huge shout out tonight to everybody that's been supported.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16982-40] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: kind of taken over into the HR role, so she's unable to assist us. And Miss Kronborg has really stepped up, and she is going to be assuming many of the more duties that this weatherboard was doing, but it's going to be learning curve.
TEXT> So we just beg patients from the community and they're both fantastic people, and we're very grateful for what Chelsea has done for us and what well, it's going to do moving forward. So number one is professional development. Building level administrators received training over the past two weeks on appropriate application of the approved approved behavior matrices  policies, civil rights and due process, both regular education and special education students. The PD sessions were led by Luke Webster from Drummond Woodson and Tara Gear, the consultant that has been working with our special education team. Professional development for educators in the near future will target areas that executive leadership has identified as knowledge deficit issues over the past five years. The deficit areas includes classroom management, tier one and tier two instruction. Mrs. Kennedy will speak more on this when we discuss our New Hampshire Statewide Assessment System results.  Tier one instruction is the core instruction just for the community. Tier one instruction is the core instruction provided to all students that is differentiated to meet the needs of the whole class. Tier two instruction addresses the needs of students who are not progressing as expected in tier one, and often focuses on specific skill deficits, such as particular math concepts or phonics.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Our next item is behavioral specialist positions and budget impacts. Currently, we have two programs at CMS that were previously Esser funded the Arc, which is the Academic Resource Center

[16982-75] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: We were trying to look at that today just to get that we didn't finish it. So I can get this specific numbers. It's a little bit hard because some of the positions changed a little bit. So it's not you know, it sounds.
TEXT> Like you've been meeting the students needs by having teachers teach two subjects, which they can do with the sixth.,
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: More challenging.

[16982-77] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: More challenging.
TEXT> Standing and changing the nature. But that doesn't mean that the children are not being serviced or taught in a classroom.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So it's trickier.

[16982-166] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I know. Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> So then a couple other programs we have. So the early education self-contained.  And so there needs to be at least one educator special educator for that for those are intellectual disability micro credentials that the student needs to have are a teacher, I should say needs to have a pair to keep that program open. There are five pairs for individual one on ones, and so that's what the students require for their IEP. There's a max of 12 students. And so right now we're looking for some more pair educators to we actually I think we have everybody miss McCloud just to confirm. The early education self-contained room. Is that one fully staffed I see initials and everything else.
NEXT> Jessica McCloud: Okay. So, because I gave you the numbers and I don't have them. But. So early, we call that so program approval. It's called the early education program, but it's

[16982-230] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Matt Angell: they belong at. And so as part of me building the budget, I'm doing a staffing map and where they sit in each of the schools and so that I can make sure that they're moved to the appropriate accounting category within the financial statement.
TEXT> So that's in flux, moving it to where they really are at the moment. Correct. Okay. So I looked I looked at, regular instruction in all the schools. And I see I'm looking at the, the column to the, the most right, which is the remaining budget available.  And I see in all schools there is money available in regular not money available, but there is excess money that it doesn't look like we're going to have to use. And that is on purpose to cover, past variances. Okay. So so even so it looks like our plan is working in the sense of we have tried to save money on regular education.  And that interfaces with the report earlier that  while we have had to cut back on staffing, we are still able to address the educational needs of the students. Another area that I was looking at was special ed salaries.  And I see. And special ed salaries are, located throughout the budget. I see that special ed salaries  are have  are have 145,000 left in the budget for them.  However contracted services  are a -701,000. Yes. I mean and so to me I'm interpreting that is we haven't been able to hire staff and we've had to use contracted services that are more expensive. It's differential in those two numbers is almost $500,000, and it's more costly to use contracted services. Am I understanding that correctly?
NEXT> Matt Angell: Yes.

[16982-237] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: be to the good 175,000, but private in-state is in the whole 252,000. So it seems like Paris, we we don't have the special ed in Paris, and we've had to go to private in-state placements to compensate for that. Is that a fair understanding?
TEXT> I don't think it's, I don't think it's because of the lack of Paris. I think it's, some of those kids that went off into private placement. They needed to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay.

[16982-301] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: to say statistics and algebraic thinking. Looking through the requirements. It fits naturally into algebra two one. One.. And but. Thank you. And then U.S. and Hampshire history and Constitution is split between civics and the courses that we have already, which is us. Us.
TEXT> Right. It's all it's all there. There needs to be some additions. To some of the course work, but nothing major. We do have special ed courses, math skills, structured English. And we made sure that as you go through those courses, you will also get those same credits. So it's really about pathways. All right. Making sure that as you go through, the pathways are there for all of our students. Now also heavily hinted at, if not said exclusively, is the need to walk away from that Carnegie unit and that see time. All right. So that you got a year course you're going to get one credit for that.  That is not a necessity. Right. To define that a little better, you're really looking at the competencies. You're looking at the rigor. So you have and I think a good example is civics which is a one credit course now but still happy here. Okay. Which is completely fine. And that works out for us because the rigor of that is that you have to, as part of a graduation requirement, have to pass a naturalization test, which is now through the tide portal, which is the same portal that we do all of the, standardized testing through.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It's pretty rigorous. Okay. So those are the credit changes. What we have done, and we called around to many principals and had some late night conversations with them. Ask

[16982-303] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: test to graduate and they can take it as many times as they want if you teach it to them. Freshman year, they've got four years to pass that test. Okay. It just we're trying to be as thoughtful and forward sinking as we can.
TEXT> I think that we also took lab bio and, into the physical science and the swapped them into the physical science was year. A couple years ago was the freshman course. Yeah, we put it back there. Many high schools in the States. That's where it was. I'm the school in Connecticut. I took a freshman year. I did okay. And our science teachers really thought that it belonged there and would do better for our teacher, for our students. We also have an introduction of a foundations. Science class.  A lot of our students are struggling as they come through. We're going to try this class together. Be able to provide a little bit more support and start freshmen out on a good food. Just double check. I think that is all the major changes, right? I give you the general idea and the driving force behind it and all those things in there. If you have any questions, I'd love to call. I'm not done. I'm not done. I. It's even a pretty color. I don't know how. So  with Missus Harrington. So now all of the early college for the CT programs, if you complete coursework and you complete a program, you're eligible for college credit for that, which is absolutely amazing. And then also, they're working on work based learning, which allows students to learn outside. Outside of these walls. Right. And apply what they're learning on the job and actually make some meaningful knowledge.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: All tech programs, if you're a level two, you get at least nine college credits for free in every one of the key programs. So we have an agreement early

[16982-348] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Michael Herrington: I think that was the name. Or it might have been a name change. Okay.
TEXT> And my other question was, does printmaking integrate with what's happening at the tech center  with that wonderful machine that the kids now have there?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: It does not. Well come on. I will I will say.

[16982-381] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Need to do this. I mean, because.
TEXT> Originally this was going to be the draft presented to you. Tonight. And then, next the vote would be your next meeting. Right? The first meeting in December gives us a chance to  meet and talk and vet some things. Like I said, one of the challenges with a complete and total rewrite is little things can get dropped, which is why I really appreciate the time to come present it. Have you guys thoughtfully go through it, come back, talk to us, and have something that, frankly, our students deserve. Right, right.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Another pair of eyes. My copy did not have the appendix at the end that you mentioned.

[16982-447] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: It was fun. Next item on the agenda is. Any presentation or a request from Miss Kennedy related to truant officer hybrid position.
TEXT> Okay, so  thank you. We are looking to bring back a position that unfortunately was rift. And I understand financially where things were happening. But at the same time it's it's at a cost to us as a district to. So this position is really helpful. It'll go over the job description in a minute, but it helps to bring in the average daily membership in attendance. And so every day a student is not in attendance. It is actually affecting our adequacy aid. It's affecting our students education obviously. And it's just, you know, making more work for folks that need to be, you know, keep reaching and things like that too. And so we want the students to get as much as they can out of an education. There are barriers many times. And that sometimes that's something that we're working on is like, what is it that is, it's not always foreseeable. Things that are happening. And so just some of the job descriptions that are happening. So this role, the officer monitor and track student attendance and tardiness across the district. They conduct home visits, meet with students and parents and guardians of chronically absent students, and really gets to the root cause and what's going on and then providing support.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That's the bigger part of it. And so they collaborate with administrators, teachers, counselors, social workers to identify those barriers and then to figure out what we can do to

[16982-448] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: So this role, the officer monitor and track student attendance and tardiness across the district. They conduct home visits, meet with students and parents and guardians of chronically absent students, and really gets to the root cause and what's going on and then providing support.
TEXT> That's the bigger part of it. And so they collaborate with administrators, teachers, counselors, social workers to identify those barriers and then to figure out what we can do to try and eliminate the barriers and then work together with partnerships. They develop an insulin and implement attendance improvement plans. So similar for students who need behavior. Students who are in an attendance issues will have an attendance improvement plan. And then we'll work on how to make sure that they're attending more frequently. They serve as a liaison between the schools, the families, community resources, sometimes in court as well. They maintain records and documentation of all attendance related interventions, communications and even outcomes. What's happening? They do testify in court proceedings related to attendance and truancy. They're staying up to date on laws and regulations and best practices in relation to attendance and truancy, and participating in professional development areas. And it also does some some professional development to folks as well. And just explaining what's happening, why these steps are important. And so some of the requirements are 2 to 3 years of experience working with youth, families and community organizations, strong communication skills, problem solving skills, proficient and data tracking, analysis and reporting knowledge that can be local community resources and social services.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Valid driver's license. There's a possibility of driving some folks and things, and just reliable transportation and just familiarity with the laws regarding truancy and attendance policies. So we do

[16982-487] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Miss Hawkins.
TEXT> I just wanted to indicate that there is research that if students start in an early age with the habit of coming to school, understanding the importance of school and breaking a model that might be in the home that, well, you know, you're not going to school today. A person who has the skills to get to go into the home, work with the family. Have the child come to school.  Prevents all of those additional programs down the road when those children are older.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I personally I think we'd be better served climbing someone like a guidance counselor back to work. That would be in the school itself. But that's just my opinion. I

[16982-489] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: school itself. But that's just my opinion. I mean, I could if I could interject, Mr. Sprague, thank you. So my name is Scott Maple. I'm the former community attendance officer. And I came here tonight because I figured that you probably have some questions.
TEXT> When I started that position back in March, March throughout until my position was done away with, I made 400 home visits. I had almost 100 students on my truancy list, and that was throughout the school district. So my job as a truancy officer, I took it upon myself to go to those homes, talk with students and parents to figure out why they weren't in school. And I had students from Dessner and I had students from Maple Avenue. I had students from bluff, students from the high school.  And the one common factor why people weren't coming where the kids weren't coming to school was because during Covid, they were made to work from home. So a lot of them missed out on social interaction. And when they came back to school, they found that the environment had changed. And it had changed so much that these kids were afraid to come to school. So that's was the common denominator of all the children that I've talked to, all the students, the young adults from the elementary schools all the way to high school. So out of the 400 home visits and 98 students that I had, 94 of them returned to school at in one  way or form.
NEXT> Scott Maple: Working with administration, which was phenomenal. If we had to change some schedules around, we did that. So that really helps. So 94 out of 98 returned to school, and

[16982-490] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Scott Maple: that I've talked to, all the students, the young adults from the elementary schools all the way to high school. So out of the 400 home visits and 98 students that I had, 94 of them returned to school at in one way or form.
TEXT> Working with administration, which was  phenomenal. If we had to change some schedules around, we did that. So that really helps. So 94 out of 98 returned to school, and I also worked throughout the summer to have that continuity, to have that fluidity. So those kids felt that somebody wasn't abandoning them. When school got out for the summer. So I took it upon myself. To, to make those home visits throughout the summer. Truancy is is is is big, throughout the country and certain reasons why. But my background is in law enforcement. I've got over 20 years as a law enforcement officer, school resource officer. I've also worked for the adult Department of Corrections in the state of North Carolina. And what I found working as a case manager  and a correctional officer is you can trace. Them as an adult. You can trace it all the way back to their education, a portion a good part of why they're in prison is because they didn't have the opportunity that education. They didn't have somebody to help them along the way to make sure that they stayed in school. So I found that out, you know, again, as a law enforcement officer, but, you know, in five months, 400 home visits, 98 students, 94 then returning back to school.
NEXT> Scott Maple: With the help of administration, I think that is a big deal. I think you do need the truancy position or community attendance officer position, because I've heard since I've

[16982-491] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Scott Maple: somebody to help them along the way to make sure that they stayed in school. So I found that out, you know, again, as a law enforcement officer, but, you know, in five months, 400 home visits, 98 students, 94 then returning back to school.
TEXT> With the help of administration, I think that is a big deal. I think you do need the truancy position or community attendance officer position, because I've heard since I've been out that, you know, what's been asked of social workers and things like that. They don't want to do the home visits. I'm not afraid to do the home visits. I'm not afraid to go in and talk to these students. And I talk to them at great length. I talk to them about their education and what they want to do and what they want to be. And I also get to talk with their parents. So I am that bridge between the student, the parent and administration. And I think that's been a big help. And if you ask any of the administrators that we all worked well together, and it's not just me, it's the administrators in the school. It's the it's the ones that take the attendance in the morning. You know, my time as a truancy officer. I visited every school every day to make sure if they had somebody that was on their radar, that could be a potential truancy problem. And I would make that home visit. I would catch them early to let them know that, yes, attendance is important and this is what could happen to you. You know, education fallen by the wayside. So it is a very important position.
NEXT> Scott Maple: And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have.

[16982-493] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6; Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2025-11-19
PREV> Scott Maple: And I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have.
TEXT> I could just add on to the middle school. I mean, Mr. Maple and I had met over the summer when I first came out as a principal, and just eagerly looking forward to all the plans. He already started working with our summer school program and our students in there. And then there were some students we had to file a change. A child in need of support. And it's really affecting because of attendance. And there's a lot of students that are right now in need of more support. And just because, you know, the positions that have been ripped and things, even just in the clerical part of it, we are not even to maintain the data as much as we want to right now. And so letters are supposed to be going home, and I know at the middle school, just with transitions and things, those all haven't even gone home. So it's not even as accurate as it could be. But I know Mary Ellen, the plant who's at the front office as constantly students that are coming in at 815 school starts at 735.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You know, you know, it's only 40 minutes here. And people are like, oh, it's really impacting education. It's really impacting the day to day work and things. And it's

[16982-499] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Doctor Harrington.
TEXT> And I've also worked with juvenile justice, probation and parole. I've been to court hearings representing the school and being able to talk with the judge about those kids that are on the border of possibly going to jail, juvenile detention. But, you know, some of the programs, the Fly Academy and some of these other programs are great, add ons to the kids that can't sit in a regular classroom environment because of that anxiety and depression is because, you know, again, they were made to be they were they were made to sit at home for  a year or so. And now we're trying to get them back into the school and, and just taking the time to talk with them. You know, I can count, you know, at least 5 or 6 students that, that I think I made great strides with. And one of them was one that Jess McLeod was talking about, who just shuts down to everybody. And I was able to make that that connection with her.  And, you know, at least get her through the front doors onto, onto a better path than what she was on so that she gets that education.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So I just want to say a couple words for Scott. And just kind of the reality of the situation. Without a truancy. And I'm actually just going to talk

[16982-550] Scott Maple | Former Community Attendance/Truant Officer, Claremont School District  | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
TEXT> If I could just add something with the, with the in the effect of documentation. So there is a form that was given to me that in every day I made a home visit. And I'm not sure if Miss Kennedy has access to that now, but, it was a form that I'd fill out, who I contacted, who I made contact with, or who I made contact with. What was the, you know, the conversation if I made contact with a parent and then that would be, sent to a spreadsheet. And that's how I tracked my daily, progress.  So that's how I was able to. I remembered all those those numbers at 400. And I drove over 700 miles to make those home visits. You know, throughout those five months. But, I do feel I did fill out that form. It was transferred to, a document that the superintendent and whoever wanted access to that. So I did track my progress mileage that I drove things like that. So that is, and then throughout the summer. Again, just  to keep an eye on those students that I had on my truancy list to make sure that they were doing okay. And, to make sure that they were going to be in school and school started back up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We've we've heard nothing about anything negative about your work ethic. Everybody has said nothing but glowing things about you. I think the only objection was to the position as

[16982-601] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: One is for remote learning for snow days, which Claremont does not have, but also for alternative learning programs, which we do have, and it provides for rescinding permission of if progress is not being made for students who are working remotely in these programs.
TEXT> The next one is policy JLP, which is a brand new policy. It's in response to RSA 18611. It's basically a will not policy in regard to  parental involvement, unless the child might be subject to abuse or neglect. KFD is the use and location of a d,  and it's also in response to legislation. And it allows nurses or has nurses provide CPR training and how to use EDS. They maintain, they keep records, they register them. And there is one statement that was duplicated. Number five, we eliminated that duplication. And I believe that the nurses  already do. A lot of this  was just putting the policy in place. The next policy is BAA, which is board member of. It was completely revised by the New Hampshire School Board Association in 2025. And basically the most important statement in there is that no board member has power of authority to act or speak on behalf of the board or the district, unless given that permission by the board. The next one is BCA,  which is also a revision. Our policies from 2006. School board member ethics. There are 14 statements about school board members expectations, roles, and responsibilities to provide and improve public education.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Also, our current policy has BCA, R, which is a document that school board members are supposed to sign, that we have acknowledged our school board ethics policy. I don't

[16982-659] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Right. And again, it's the way it's being viewed by the CDC and the fact that it says may remain in class. It does not say will is. The other piece that came up discussion.
TEXT> I'll give a little context to this, because I was on the board when the policy was changed to the original policy, and we actually had a board member who ran for the board because of this policy. Like the reason he got elected was this policy,  like flat out because what happened was, is that there were rampant outbreaks of lice in the school and kids were not being sent home and they were not being treated. And so the rest of the class parents were having to assume the financial responsibility for repeatedly having to do the treatment for their kids that were being reinfected by the kids that weren't being taken out of class.  And, So it's. It was a collective punishment for an individual, you know, for an individual's parents not providing the treatment for that student.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: If I can address.

[16982-662] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: That, and it was the CDC guidance at the time was exactly what it is today. Was that May. So the board chose to remove the and make it a will not. So that was a, modification that the board made against CDC guidance.
TEXT> At the time and the nurses. But but to to clarify the piece about the chronic conditions. There is a statement in here. Chronic cases will result in dismissal from school until treatment has begun.  And or a referral to the child's primary care provider. So it's it's I've been in the shoes of the, of the principal who's dealing with this, and it's a very touchy I shouldn't use the word touchy situation, but the nurses are asking that we follow CDC guidelines. The board may vote not to do that. We're just telling you the work that we've done, the discussion we've had there is there was a discussion about chronic cases, and that will not be allowed. Children will not be allowed to return if they're not being treated. And then there was a discussion about providing the treatment and how does that work. So it's something the board has to vote on one way or another, or leave it the way it is. I that's up to the board as a whole.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I would leave it as it is.

[16982-673] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: What's chronic.
TEXT> If they come back and have head lice again? So once I believe that is continued attendance of the child and school with an active. So one day of attendance when the child is, you know, could be checked and has a visible active infestation is defined as chronic.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anybody else have a comment? All in favor of adopting the policy as amended. Say I or raise your hand I.

[16982-682] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: One abstention. Policy warming as is.
TEXT> Okay. The next policy was JLP parental notification and involvement in student welfare. Let me pull that one up. All right. So I'll make a motion and then we have a discussion. Is that okay to do? Yeah. All right. I move that we accept the recommendation of the policy subcommittee and adopt a policy. JLP parental notification of an involvement in student welfare.
NEXT> Unidentified: Second. Second.

[16982-733] Frank Sprague | School Board Member (reinstated to the board 11/5/25) | 2025-11-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's just right.
TEXT> So the former high school principal is sitting here, and he thinks  of the kid who takes that off the wall and zaps people within, say, well, the policy says that I can be used by anybody. So I would I would suggest saying used by anyone in an emergency situation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Change the.

[16982-750] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Unidentified: That was. Gosh, I'm so tired.
TEXT> So I, I just want a clarification because this is something we've always struggled with as a board is the second to last paragraph with. So we're essentially saying that nobody has the power or authority to speak on behalf of the board, blah, blah, blah, blah. But then the last paragraph is, but  those wishing to do that, you know, can do it, as long as they say it's only their their opinion.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: You're speaking as a, as a citizen.

[16982-766] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: And so, you know, I, I just think that from my perspective, as long as you make clear who you are when you're posting and you're not putting things on the the confidential. Capacity, right.
TEXT> As long as you indicate you're not speaking on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Unidentified: Correct.

[17017-39] Unidentified public commenter | Citizen speaker, Ward 2 (no self-ID captured on the recording); retire | 2025-12-03
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: the middle school, and they assist with Stem at the high school. That's not an all inclusive list. The way I see it, we have the volunteers, just not someone available to manage and run it. I have a great deal of project management skills.
TEXT> I'm lean Six Sigma trained or in my yellow belt to VA, and during my time as the Administrative Officer in radiology, I provided coordination, direction, policy interpretation, evaluation and took care of a budget in excess of $1 million for non personnel costs. On behalf of the Chief of Radiology, I'm happy to draft a job description, meet interview with anyone, provide references, whatever it takes. And for those at home or here worried about the legal ease of this being a volunteer role, I say we ignore the noise and get to work. And finally, my wife and I are willing to pony up the cost of the of the fingerprints and background checks for the first five individuals that want to be part of this.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: If you want to contact me, I can either put this on the agenda and also direct you to a citizen advisory, portion of our bylaws so we can perhaps

[17017-43] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; self-ID rendered by ASR as 'Mi | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there anyone else who would like to come up and speak?
TEXT> Hello, Michelle. Be in Ward two.  I am talking I'm here to talk about the half year of science and social studies that's currently being offered at the middle school.  I did email out to the board, and my understanding is that the policy is that  Miss Whitney is the one who responds. And I'm curious if collectively you all discuss the response to that, or if that is just Miss Whitney providing her opinion back to me on what she feels is appropriate for this situation. I'm going to run here later on tonight that this follows an editor 306 standards.  What I'm reading from Ed 306 is that the state has put learning time on the local level. So all of you, in determining what our students need for learning to progress in,  these fields of study. And I strongly feel that we should be looking at  at 306 as a minimum, not as what we're striving for, for the education of our students. I also want to speak to preschool. I think that I'm going to see that in agenda, that we're pushing this out until January or February. My understanding,  I watched the board meeting in June when  a previous director, a special ed, laid all out for you that if a preschool team determines that a child requires preschools placement to achieve their academic goals, then that is what we build into their program.
NEXT> Michelle Beaton: We currently have 15 students in our district who are not receiving their placement in a preschool program. If we're looking to set these children up for success, we would

[17017-44] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (as announced; self-ID rendered by ASR as 'Mi | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michelle Beaton: I watched the board meeting in June when a previous director, a special ed, laid all out for you that if a preschool team determines that a child requires preschools placement to achieve their academic goals, then that is what we build into their program.
TEXT> We currently have 15 students in our district who are not receiving their  placement in a preschool program. If we're looking to set these children up for success, we would not be pushing this out further. You'd be putting this on the agenda so you could have it in our budget for next year.  Lastly, I also have a question about the superintendent search committee, and I'm wondering if that's something that's going to be including parents and community members and teachers. As if we value education. I'm also hearing some under the wiring works that perhaps we're looking at hiring an executive officer next year on our school district, rather than someone who has a background in education. I do feel concerned that, again, we're not putting our students best interests forward if we're following these these models of looking at business administrator people with business degrees and following the minimum standards in our school district. Thanks.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else that would like to come up to speak?

[17017-47] Greg Adams | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified); Claremont Cares | 2025-12-03
PREV> Greg Adams: lack for some of the other areas. Also, secondly, for new supplies, we're actively collecting essential supplies for the classroom and beyond to ensure that every student has the basic tools that they need to succeed in the classroom, regardless of their family's economic situation.
TEXT> We understand that accepting donations and integrating them in  effectively requires careful coordination. To this end, we have already reached out to the principles of the local grade schools to formalize our partnership,  and we're respectfully asking them to confirm their acceptance of the donations at the time when it occurs,  to provide guidance on their most pressing needs, so that the resources that we collect are allocated precisely where they will have the greatest impact. And  thirdly, to coordinate  the secure and efficient logistics of the physical delivery of the supplies themselves.  I know that we've already had  discussions with one of the  great schools, and we're actively working with the  getting hold of the principal of the second one.  This initiative is a reflection of the core belief held by Claremont Cares, that our community thrives when we invest in our youth and work cooperatively. We are committed to making this a success and ensuring that those resources flow directly into the schools and the classrooms.  We look forward to partnering with the community as we work together to strengthen the educational foundation of Claremont. Thank you for your time and your dedication to the students.  Keith and I will be  welcome to any questions that anybody else may have about the organization or the drive after the scoreboard moving here today.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else from the community would would like to come up and speak, seeing no one from the community. We're going to close citizens

[17017-110] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (merged cluster: Madden with Sprague; per-segment  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: the hard place you're in as a board. If you have to come back and say, I'm sorry, we can't do that, that is a decision, you know, to the board as my job, as the principal to tell you what I think is valuable.
TEXT> If the kids Martin's up in the second semester of the sophomore year, you can go online and take a village scores for free.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: It doesn't work for every student, though.

[17017-111] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff (uncertain — introduced by Principal Herring | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: If the kids Martin's up in the second semester of the sophomore year, you can go online and take a village scores for free.
TEXT> It doesn't work for every student, though.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: It doesn't.

[17017-113] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff (uncertain — introduced by Principal Herring | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: It doesn't.
TEXT> One that doesn't work for every student. Summer schools.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Nothing works for every student.

[17017-114] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (merged cluster: Madden with Sprague; per-segment  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: One that doesn't work for every student. Summer schools.
TEXT> Nothing works for every student.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So what I'll say, Mr. Madden, is in a situation that we're both thinking of it. It worked very well, and I think it took a toll on the parent

[17017-116] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (merged cluster: Madden with Sprague; per-segment  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: So what I'll say, Mr. Madden, is in a situation that we're both thinking of it. It worked very well, and I think it took a toll on the parent in that.
TEXT> And it did. But it also took a toll on the student. And I'm an equal opportunity pain. The ass parents should be pushing this too, not just  you and me and the other teachers. Everybody's got to be held accountable.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: There are and I come from. I come from a family whose father did not have the ability to help me through high school. And you have the ability to

[17017-154] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: We'll have you give your presentation and then I'll have Miss Kennedy speak to it. And then we'll have our discussion and and vote on it. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. Thank you for having me to talk about monkey.  This is an important tool being used by our technology program at the elementary schools. I'm here tonight to ask for your approval to purchase the licenses for Code Monkey, a curriculum resource currently being used in grades K through five across both of our elementary schools. But before we discuss the software costs or even the curriculum itself,  I want to talk about our people. Specifically. I want to take a moment to recognize a group of educators who are the unsung heroes of our elementary schools, and that would be our unified art teachers. These are art, music, physical education, and library specialist. They are experts in their respective fields, but in our district, they wear a second, equally heavy hat for one hour once a week. Our dedicated UA teachers step aside  outside of their primary specialty to ensure that our students receive technology instruction. This has been happening for over ten years in this district with little recognition of their challenges, and I want us to really sit with the weight of their contribution. If our UA teachers did not step up to do this, if they decided to stick strictly to the subjects they are trained in, our students would not receive any formal technology lessons for the first six years of their public education in Claremont.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: Think about that from kindergarten through fifth grade, half of their entire academic career with us, they would have zero formal instruction on how to use a keyboard, how to

[17017-156] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: list of links for students to access. They were searching for free typing games or coding activities on the open web. In my audit of these resources, I found that it had become a graveyard for materials that were out of date, broken or not.
TEXT> In compliance with data governance  laws, both state and federal level. This was not any fault of their own. Technology curriculum and legal obligations was not their realm of expertise. They were doing the best to bring technology education to our elementary schools. They told me they felt like they were babysitting for an hour. They felt insecure because technology isn't their primary domain, and they were spending hours they didn't have trying to find lessons that might work, only to find the materials from the Google site didn't always work as expected, but the problem went deeper than just broken links. It was a matter of compliance and safety. This brings me to the critical point.  A piece of legislation in New Hampshire called New Hampshire House Bill 1612. As you know, HB 1612 is a law that governs student data privacy, privacy and mandates that every single piece of software we put in front of a student must meet strict data governance standards. We are required to know exactly what data is being collected, where it is stored, who has access to it, and we must ensure it is not being sold or used for marketing. When I audited the free resources our teachers have been forced to use, I found that it proximately 80% of them were non-compliant. We were directing our students to free websites that were likely tracking their clicks, collecting their data, or displaying targeted advertisements.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: In a world of technology, if the product is free, usually the user is the product. By failing to provide a paid, vetted curriculum, we were inadvertently exposing our district

[17017-157] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: marketing. When I audited the free resources our teachers have been forced to use, I found that it proximately 80% of them were non-compliant. We were directing our students to free websites that were likely tracking their clicks, collecting their data, or displaying targeted advertisements.
TEXT> In a world of technology, if the product is free, usually the user is the product. By failing to provide a paid, vetted curriculum, we were inadvertently exposing our district to significant legal liability and more importantly, exposing our students data to third party vendors with zero accountability. This is the definition of unmasked risk. We needed to fix this immediately. That's why in January 2025, we launched the Code Monkey Pilot. The pilot was paid for by title for grant money. Code monkey is not just a game, it is a turnkey, comprehensive curriculum platform. But most importantly for this board, it is a walled garden. A walled garden gives us complete control over what students see and where they can navigate. The curriculum contains a safe and monitored environment. It is fully compliant. Code monkey adheres to the strictest standards of student privacy, including Coppa, and it aligns perfectly with the mandates of N.H. House Bill 1612. When a student logs in, they are safe and free. Private environment. We own the data. We control the access. The risk of liability drops to near zero.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: It supports our teachers. This program was built for the exact situation we are in. It allows a teacher who might be technophobe or simply untrained in computer science to

[17017-158] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: of student privacy, including Coppa, and it aligns perfectly with the mandates of N.H. House Bill 1612. When a student logs in, they are safe and free. Private environment. We own the data. We control the access. The risk of liability drops to near zero.
TEXT> It supports our teachers. This program was built for the exact situation we are in. It allows a teacher who might be technophobe or simply untrained in computer science to facilitate a high level lesson with confidence. It comes with lesson plans, offline activities, and automatic grading. It updates itself. Are art and music teachers no longer have to spend limited planning time reading privacy policies to see if a website is still safe to use. It standardizes instruction. Before January, a third grader at one school might be learning to type, while a third grader in another school was just playing games. Now we have horizontal and vertical alignment. We know exactly what skills are being taught in every grade, ensuring that when they hit middle school, every student is starting from the same foundation. I've talked a lot about our amazing UA teachers and about our obligations to secure, vetted and  compliant applications. Now, I want to pivot for a moment to the impact on the students. They are the center of all the decisions we make around curriculum. Because the word code is in a name, many often focus on the coding part, the logic, the math, and future jobs. And those are real. But there is a softer, more urgent skill being taught here, and that's digital citizenship.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: Think about how we handle behavior in our schools. We teach children how to be good citizens on the playground. We teach them how to be respectful in the hallways.

[17017-159] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: we make around curriculum. Because the word code is in a name, many often focus on the coding part, the logic, the math, and future jobs. And those are real. But there is a softer, more urgent skill being taught here, and that's digital citizenship.
TEXT> Think about how we handle behavior in our schools. We teach children how to be good citizens on the playground. We teach them how to be respectful in the hallways. We teach them how to resolve conflict in the classroom. In all of those spaces, they are supervised. There is a teacher, a para, or an administrator watching, guiding and correcting them. But when it comes to their digital lives, our children are often alone. They are navigating the internet, social platforms and digital dilemmas in their bedrooms or on their phones, often without an adult standing over their shoulder. They are faced with choices about privacy, cyber bullying and ethical behavior is our duty and moral obligation to support our students on how to behave online, the same way we support them on how to behave in person. We cannot just hand them a Chromebook and say, here you go. Code monkey provides the framework for these conversations. It teaches them that there are humans behind the screens. It teaches them about digital footprints. If we do not fund this curriculum, we are effectively removing the only formal time in their school week. Dedicated discussing online safety and ethics.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: Finally, I want to address the results. We started this in January 2025 and I just day received the latest performance report. The numbers are not just good, they're exceptional.

[17017-160] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: framework for these conversations. It teaches them that there are humans behind the screens. It teaches them about digital footprints. If we do not fund this curriculum, we are effectively removing the only formal time in their school week. Dedicated discussing online safety and ethics.
TEXT> Finally, I want to address the results. We started this in January 2025 and I just day received the latest performance report. The numbers are not just good, they're exceptional. First, let's talk about the value for the money. We purchased 600 licenses as of this month. This moment today, 599 of those 600 seats are filled. That is 99.8% utilization rate. We are not wasting a single dollar on unused software. Second, let's look at engagement code. Monkey compared us to other districts of similar size across the United States. Those districts districts are seeing an average of 239 students logging in per month. In our district, we have more than double that engagement, with over 50% of our roster students consistently, actively logging on in terms of work completed. Our students are solving coding exercises at a rate classified as very high. We just passed 15,000 exercises for this school year. In what, the three months we've been in school, compared to the peer average of around 3000 exercises in the United States. Third, let's look at skill acquisition. Remember, these are elementary students, many of whom have never had formal keyboarding lessons before and for this generation, brought up on touch screens.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: The first time they see a keyboard is when we put it in front of them. As of December 3rd today, our students are averaging 83% accuracy on this program

[17017-161] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: in school, compared to the peer average of around 3000 exercises in the United States. Third, let's look at skill acquisition. Remember, these are elementary students, many of whom have never had formal keyboarding lessons before and for this generation, brought up on touch screens.
TEXT> The first time they see a keyboard is when we put it in front of them. As of December 3rd today, our students are averaging 83% accuracy on this program on their typing skills. They are currently averaging a speed of eight words per minute. This is a fantastic baseline for beginners, and it puts us well on track for high proficiency by the end of the school year. Fourth, I want to address a critical point regarding standardized testing. Our students take high state and national tests on computers. The student does not have foundational keyboarding skills or digital literacy. They struggle with the machine, not the material. We risk masking a student's true ability in reading or mask simply because they cannot navigate the testing platform. Universal design for learning,  also known as UDL, reminds us that we must remove barriers so our students can really show us what they know. Code monkey is helping us move toward the goal of removing the technology barrier so our students can shine a light on the knowledge, instead of fighting to navigate their way through the test. Code monkey ensures every student, regardless of which school they attend, receives consistent, rigorous training in these foundational skills. It levels the playing field to close. I want to be clear about where we stand.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: This program was vetted last spring by the title for Committee, comprising parents, teachers, community members, and admin. The plan was always to continue it. The only thing that has

[17017-162] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: instead of fighting to navigate their way through the test. Code monkey ensures every student, regardless of which school they attend, receives consistent, rigorous training in these foundational skills. It levels the playing field to close. I want to be clear about where we stand.
TEXT> This program was vetted last spring by the title for Committee, comprising parents, teachers, community members, and admin. The plan was always to continue it. The only thing that has changed is the funding source. When we were faced with the financial crisis, the committee crumbled and unfortunately, this programs grant funding. Funding crumbled in the wake of that, and we are facing the possibility of it ending in less than two weeks when our grant funded licenses are set to expire. If we do not move this into the operational budget, we are forcing our UA teachers back to the Wild West of unfettered, non-compliant websites. We would be taking a step backward in safety, a step backward in data privacy, and a step backward in student equity. We have the teachers who are willing to do the work. We have the students who are eager to learn. We just need to continue with the tool. I ask for your support in approving the purchase of Code Monkey licenses so we can keep our students safe, compliant, and prepared for the future. And I'm open to any questions you may have.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.

[17017-199] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Revisit what the essay will look like.
TEXT> But. And then, I think every year we should look at stuff. Anyway, we looked at the time out of a few weeks ago wasn't going please. But it's useful to look at it when I'm looking at this number in this discussion. It's $3,500 and 7000 for 12 months. We I don't mean to gripe about this, but we paid somebody for communications almost $5,000 last month. This is a no brainer to me. If we want to relook at,  you know, what's going to be best for kids to learn on computers going forward. We can have that conversation. But this is if we don't approve this tonight and we lose it and we don't have an alternative in place, it seems like a total,  you know, foolhardy thing to do, especially when we're spending 4500 on a communications person. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Hawkins, and.

[17017-205] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: It was a group of teachers trying to put together something, but it wasn't a formalized scope and sequence curriculum.
TEXT> So while this will accommodate our students needs for coding and for keyboarding.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: In digital citizenship.

[17017-212] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: It sounds like you've offered a lot of opportunity and resources to our teachers, so thank you for that.
TEXT> Yeah, I've tried to put together a lot of choices. So it Code monkey is like the main one. But we do a 20 2020 split. So it's 20 minutes of typing and then 20 minutes of a lesson. So it can be a teacher led lesson. It can be one that co monkey provides. Could be one from  Common Sense Media's digital citizenship program which we don't need to pay for. It's completely vetted and it's safe  and it's all offline. So the kids are not logging into it. And then 20 minutes of coding or  more typing. Some teachers, like the kids, go back and do more typing because maybe they're still struggling. A little bit. So the coding also promotes a lot of critical thinking, computational thinking, and problem solving skills that they can transfer over into other subject areas like math.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you very much.

[17017-256] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So is he using this program?
TEXT> No, no. He has his own curriculum, but one of his one.  During discussions with him last year, he did tell me that they come to him not knowing how to type. So that was his biggest. I  asked him, what do you need them to know? So I  while I'm researching programs. What do you really need them to know to make them successful in your program and has this I really need them to know how to type. And so when I was looking at programs, typing was a priority because of testing, because it is the first time some of these students are using a keyboard, and also because the middle school teacher says, I really need them to know how to type. And at the high school level, they need them to be able to type papers and etc. to. So typing is just a foundational skill we need to teach like we do writing and reading and math,  in the 21st century.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So there is a vertical alignment issue.

[17017-258] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there is a vertical alignment issue.
TEXT> It can't. Yeah. So and I've been so focused on getting our elementary up and running in these over the last 18 months to make sure they had a solid program. And then we can further discussion if this would be, especially if these kids are used to code Monkey as they move into the middle. School. It might be beneficial for them to continue. But right now, where they only right now the middle school has sixth graders in it that have been  exposed to Code Monkey  seventh, eighth, seventh, and eighth have not because we did not have that program and our sixth graders only had it for six. The first six, the last six months of school last year.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I did see that they had a number of options. So did the teachers direct what options the kids will utilize? Because there are math options, there are game

[17017-259] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Christina Swenson: sixth graders in it that have been exposed to Code Monkey seventh, eighth, seventh, and eighth have not because we did not have that program and our sixth graders only had it for six. The first six, the last six months of school last year.
TEXT> So I did see that they had a number of options. So did the teachers direct what options the kids will utilize? Because there are math options, there are game options, there are keyboarding options, and so.
NEXT> Christina Swenson: On the back end, I do the assigning to make sure that we're getting a consistency. And the students, they are given 20 minutes of typing. Some students might get

[17017-260] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I did see that they had a number of options. So did the teachers direct what options the kids will utilize? Because there are math options, there are game options, there are keyboarding options, and so.
TEXT> On the back end, I do the assigning to make sure that we're getting a consistency. And the students, they are given 20 minutes of typing. Some students might get half a lesson done in that 20 minutes. Some students might get three lessons. Then they all have different skill sets. So it gives them the option to move at their pace during that 20 minutes, and then they're given 20 minutes of time to do a lesson. It can be a digital citizenship lesson from Common Sense Media. It could be an offline,  code.org lesson that we call them unplugged activities could be something from the objects library, or it could even be a lesson provided by Code Monkey.  And then the last 20 minutes are like a flex. It's either coding or keyboarding, depending on the student's interest or need. So I have seen a huge drop in the Tracking Santa. App. Last year that was sort of their reward game. It really wasn't a good learning activity, but I haven't seen it really pop up even now in December. So I'm thinking they are certainly engaged and the numbers that I'm getting back are showing me they are highly above national average engagement, even doing,  up to this point in the school year, 100 minutes at home. So that means that it is something they are interested in.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.

[17017-267] Christina Swenson | District technology staff (title not stated on the record); presenter, | 2025-12-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: But that's true of Odyssey where as well.
TEXT> Yeah, but it's not an active use license. The license is attached to the student. When I go in the dashboard it says they're seated. Okay. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other discussion?

[17017-308] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (clipped into a neighbouring cluster) | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Seeing. None. Opposed. No. Abstentions. Motion passes. Thank you. Item number four is discussion about our current state assessment. Standardized assessment scores. Miss Henry, excuse me. Oh, my gosh. That. Kennedy. I don't know where that came from. Sorry. Good evening everyone. Oh. That's okay.
TEXT> So we have. Some good news and bad news in our essay scores. We've got over a little bit, and we've got some plans to talk about for what we've got. So I'm just going to start alphabetically. There filed on this. So Bluff School had been,  designated as a comprehensive support and improvement school, a CSI school,  and that is a school who has not exited their status. They remain in that status. Unfortunately, it is the lowest 5% of all New Hampshire schools for title one schools.  It still remains in that status.  And Mr. Qanat has been working hard from his follow on from where he was at before,  continuing with the state for the grant. And then it's sort of passing the torch right now. So 60% of our students from bluff  are sitting at Maple Avenue School, 40% are sitting at Disney Art school. So we do have a CSI grant that follows this. So this comprehensive support and improvement plan,  and with that grant, we're writing in some activities. We're working closely with Miss  Lewis and Mr. Blunt. And Mr. Shannon's really helping them as well.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: On what can we do to improve this. So I'm going to pass it off to them for 30s. If there's anything you want to share about updates for that

[17017-316] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: support. It was a sigh. It's it continues on. So we need to have a couple of years worth of data that supports all the work that we're doing and showing how to be exiting it. So it won't be exiting for a little bit.
TEXT> But we're using  the the support with this to make sure that our students, you know, again, those subgroups are really making great gains. We're working on some data meetings. We're discussing some other opportunities for staff,  with the you know, those  stipends or discussions for how to make sure. Again, I know stipends is a hard word right now, but through this part with with authorization, with everything else according to the CBA, and making sure that it's done the right way,  and then it's tracked and then it goes through the grant, you know. We both received. With authorization and everything else as meeting students needs.  And so there are funds that are designated to do exactly that. And  this is the one thing. And that's what just caution about the grants to make sure that there's compliance for that.  And what happens and unfortunately has happened in the past is some of the grant is written, people are assuming it's all approved. And then something changes, and then the local funds have to assume the money from that because it doesn't meet the compliance for the grant. And that's what we're making sure it's not happening again.  And so some of it is also the CBA language around the, our the amount of money per hour or things like that, that staff are in the CBA and it specifically dictates what the staff would make as a, you know, state statement a things.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So we are still working with the the additional targeted support and improvement plan for the middle school. And, you know, looking at that. So to the good news though,

[17017-323] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Melissa Lewis: other thing we did, which was not necessarily new, our staff meetings have the focus of building adding to your toolkits. And so we're firm believers. And every time we come together as a staff, our it's professional development based, we don't hold memo meetings.
TEXT> It's how do we add yet another tool to our toolkit in this one hour and a half hour and a half time that we have together? And so last year we began a book study on UDL, Universal Design for learning, which really focuses on how you plan from the get go to meet the needs of all students and give them access, removing those barriers to that tier one instruction. That's ongoing work. We are certainly not experts. We play as we go. We try one new thing at a time, and we just continue to add  to our toolkits. And that's again combined with all the things that Mrs. Kennedy spoke about ongoing data, meetings, looking at student data planning, tier one, tier two and tier three interventions, and best using that data to meet student needs. So we're very proud of what we did.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you.

[17017-330] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I'll take it. I'll take anything.
TEXT> We if we are teaching to the standards in L.A. and math at the elementary level in science for grade five, we are teaching to the test. So if we're if we are teaching content in a way that reaches all of our learners, we are teaching to the test and we should be. The format is what gets kiddos nine times out of ten. And  writing. There's not one, kiddo. Well, I shouldn't say that. I can probably count on one hand the number of kiddos that say, oh good, I get to do a lengthy writing task, right? And so we've got to continue to build kids stamina for writing. So hopefully we are teaching to the test if we're teaching the standards.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: Could you help out Doctor Harrington and get him to teach to the test.

[17017-350] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair (clipped into a neighbouring cluster) | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: I don't think. Mr. Peterson.
TEXT> Is there any incentive or benefit to the students to do?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes.

[17017-355] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So spoiler alert.
TEXT> If I could just interject,  we also do better if we can get 95. Percent of our students. Taking the assessment. As well. We've had several families that have opted out that have not helped us as a district, because the numbers aren't helping our scores and things too. So just opting in and taking it and just doing what you're saying is try your best, do what you can. It's just help to help, you know, help us form, ways of, you know, more support and things. So,  families, if that's the best thing you can do is participate in this. It really is. And so it. Gives. Us that ongoing scores.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Get a zero.

[17017-366] Michael Herrington | Stevens High School Principal (cluster also catches board-member fragm | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: standing as well. And so it's really affecting a lot of our schools positively thanks to. So last one, Stevens. So there are targeted support and improvement plan there working on specifically students with disabilities. And so. Doctor Harrington, would you like to address any?
TEXT> Sure. We had a developed a plan.  At the end of last year,  worked with,  you know, there was a couple  informational  sessions with people at the Department of Education, worked with Mike Kosky,  targeted and again, very specific with looking at  sections  that are affected individuals with disabilities.  Specifically, you're looking at the graduation rate, which is significantly lower than our population without disabilities. So we were targeting  that,  the other issue, the other two issues, that our students with disabilities are not accessing our early college or high school and gaining college credits at the same rate other students are. So that's a ding against us.  And the other area is which is in the same vein, is that,  they're not accessing the tech center as much. Right. So you're getting a push  to have students with disabilities,  access to Tech Center, which Miss Harrington  is fantastic at.  Especially with the advertising at the high school, when you walk in and you get that giant,  picture and wrote of every student who's there, what they're taking, you know, what they want to be.  That really does get a lot of interest.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: I actually even students are like, hey, can we get stuff on that? Like asking me to put stuff on that? And then also for gaining credit for each credit.

[17017-375] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: from the administrative team. And if anybody is interested, they can contact me, and I can tell you what minutes to look at, what CCTV board meetings to watch to, to hear what the people that were boots on the ground, what their experiences were.
TEXT> And so in my mind's eye, it's instruction as our issue here. And it's not for the lack of passion on the teacher's part, it's that they're not getting the support and they're not, not getting the support to get the skills that they need to have  to execute the programs and the curriculum. And Miss Lewis can probably acknowledge whether or not we also  got Teach United to come in to support teachers and give them more skills, responsive teaching, as well  as responsive classroom as well, and also an option of letters, which is the science of reading, which is  one of our deficits words that we hadn't transitioned into the old way of the older way of reading that was actually meeting the needs of most students. And now our new Ela program does do that. And Miss Hawkins was our representative on the curriculum  committee. So I don't know if anybody else has anything to add, because I think it's important that the community knows that this is this is a real it's a real problem that our scores aren't where they are. And we've been working hard and, we're not making the traction that we are hoping. We hope that we would make,  and we're going to double down on our efforts and make student achievement has to be our number one focus  on also for the for the public. You can find a lot of data on the New Hampshire Department of Education website.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It talks about the profiles of students. And what I also wanted to spell is this myth that like poor like because we are poor community, that this is really

[17017-376] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: we would make, and we're going to double down on our efforts and make student achievement has to be our number one focus on also for the for the public. You can find a lot of data on the New Hampshire Department of Education website.
TEXT> It talks about the profiles of students. And what I also wanted to spell is this myth that like poor like because we are poor community, that this is really what's holding us back. There barriers there, but we can really overcome them. And what's really striking to me, and this has been consistent over the years, is if you go under like the the mean growth percentile, it's like how far kids. It doesn't necessarily mean mean they're meeting their benchmark, but how much growth they're achieving over a year. Our economically disadvantaged children and our kids that are not economically disadvantaged, there's no difference in growth. That's that's astounding to me. And and this is an L.A. and this is students with disabilities and students without disabilities. There's no difference. In growth.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Which is what you want.

[17017-385] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford, excuse me, Miss Hawkins. Oh.
TEXT> That's Mr.. I agree about the the plan. If we can develop a plan district wide to increase participation. I mean, you're doing it  at one location. We can do that across the locations, right? The other thing I found myself thinking was the need for professional development. Yes. And professional development can look different. It can be building based. It can be educators talking to educators. It can be bringing not necessarily not necessarily bringing people in, but taking those educators who are really good at what they're doing and spread that throughout the district. And having the intervention is we're talking about a reconfiguration which will give us that opportunity. So it's important that we keep looking at ways to help our kids do better, and they will.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Be helping our teachers do better. Correct. They're going to help our kids do better. Correct.

[17017-386] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: good at what they're doing and spread that throughout the district. And having the intervention is we're talking about a reconfiguration which will give us that opportunity. So it's important that we keep looking at ways to help our kids do better, and they will.
TEXT> Be helping our teachers do better. Correct. They're going to help our kids do better. Correct.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. And they will.

[17017-388] Melissa Lewis | Disnard Elementary School Principal | 2025-12-03
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. And they will.
TEXT> Can I make one more glove. The very first intervention that I think all principals would ask for in terms of parental support. We need the kids there. Get them on time and we need them there. Right. And, and I know all of us are facing some attendance concerns and certainly kids being out sick, family emergencies all justified, all understandable.  But we absolutely need family support in getting kids there because we can teach them when they're there. And if they're consistently tardy over time, that adds up. It might only be 15 minutes a day, but over a week it's 75 minutes and so on and so forth. So I'm really another great way that families can can support their kiddos.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you.

[17017-414] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So that what what we want to achieve is an evaluation. Yep. Go ahead Arlen.
TEXT> One of the things we did discuss also was the impact  of a procedure following this policy would have on the culture and the way the school operates currently with  privileges with with students coming in and out. And we want to make sure that we are improving but not destroying what we have in place. That's a positive for our students. So am I correct?
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Yeah, and there are. And one of the things that we discussed, and I'm going to try to articulate it well, is that this was in response to a very

[17017-423] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-12-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: them be up, because I do think that extra level is an important thing to have in schools in general these days. So I just want to say thank you for that, but please keep that in your minds as well. Thank you. Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> Are we good? Okay.  Next item on the agenda is follow ups. And, Miss Kennedy and I chatted this weekend about what the follow ups were.  Our technology director position adjacent. Bonneville has accepted the position. He is an employee within the district. Currently, he has ten years of IT experience. And Jeff Small's last day will be December 5th. Or he's already already service. And he was wonderful. And we consider him a loss. But I'm sure  Jason will step right into that position. And Jeff had nothing but glowing reports about Jason,  our student services position. Miss Paige Sarvis has accepted that position. So we now have a student services director.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Yes. Out! Off the press.

[17017-496] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Spoke about that. Spoke about. That professional development.
TEXT> So we are working on a professional development plan. So as Miss Lewis had stated the rest of the year as the half days we have one in January, we have one in March. I mean, yeah, March, April and May.  And those are building based professional development plans that those teachers would work. I mean, the principles are working on before the teachers, and then we're also at the same time building. We have a meeting coming up in a few weeks to plan for next year's professional development plan. Exactly. To address all of these areas of concern needs, teachers needs, certainly about differentiation. Just foreshadowing. I've talked about all I've talked to the bargaining units. It's all professional development for everybody. So secretaries, custodians, every position will have something planned for them for professional development. In the past typically some units have taken off that day thinking it was impacted students. But it also impacts our,  you know, our adults where they're not getting educated on what they need to do for certain systems and things, too. And so we're making sure that they have professional development as well.  And obviously everything's in accordance with CBA's, but ensuring that folks get what they need, they have differentiated plans.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so people aren't only getting the same, of course, you know, for everybody to so there'll be more come on that and we're, you know, working on a much

[17017-498] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Weather Service, and Department of Homeland Security. And so Monday afternoon, I spent quite a bit of time with them. We went over. We get the maps, we get everything else going, the projection. And it's a very well informed, very pleased with the process.
TEXT> System. And so making sure, you know, it's something I know folks are like, oh, you hate to call it early in things, but at the same time, student safety is always a paramount of ours. And making sure families have enough time to accommodate. So we were able to call it the day before yesterday. It did snow all day long. And then the impact of the snow. The timing of the snow is usually what dictates it as well. We worked with Pamela from the Transportation Department, making sure that everybody was ready. I know this morning when she had the busses out today, they did some calls to the DPW, just making sure that there was some more sanding in a few places, so hopefully. I mean, seemed I didn't hear a lot of reports. I've asked some of the principals. Everybody made it back safely, but that was what continues to happen. But I know understands that. It's like, you know, there's not a magic eight ball that I'm sitting there like you. Yes or no? Are we going to have school today or not?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And so just putting it out there too. So just a quick clarification on that. And then just one more update for the student, the Superintendents Advisory Council. We're meeting

[17017-499] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Everybody made it back safely, but that was what continues to happen. But I know understands that. It's like, you know, there's not a magic eight ball that I'm sitting there like you. Yes or no? Are we going to have school today or not?
TEXT> And so just putting it out there too. So just a quick clarification on that. And then just one more update for the student, the Superintendents Advisory Council. We're meeting again on December 8th  at 530 at the Dow. We'll be reviewing the meal participation applications and supports. But I do want to just quickly thank the folks have been showing up in. Somebody had asked for clarification too. So on the superintendents advisory Council is Mr. Lewis, Elise Crossman, Jen Gagnon, Rod Beaton, Courtney Porter, Rachel Nagler, Sarah  Brandon, Teatro Colon,  Christina Bernard, Molly DeLuca, javelin, Ken Loney, Erica Kaiser. And then I also meet with the unions. And so with Tammy Yates, Alicia, Samina,  Mary Ellen the plant, Holly Brissett,  Monica Reyes, and then John Bonneville too. So there's a wide variety of constituents that are participating in these programs or supports.  And then quickly so the education system, we are making sure that we're following our CBA again. And the building principal are creating their plans to go out and to do the observation, making sure that they're using the tools that we have accessible.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And they're working on goal setting forums, and that's the next thing that we're ensuring is happening. So we did have a little bit of a setback with the bluff

[17017-500] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (merged cluster: Kennedy with Principal  | 2025-12-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: supports. And then quickly so the education system, we are making sure that we're following our CBA again. And the building principal are creating their plans to go out and to do the observation, making sure that they're using the tools that we have accessible.
TEXT> And they're working on goal setting forums, and that's the next thing that we're ensuring is happening. So we did have a little bit of a setback with the bluff change.  Everything else that was happening at the beginning of year. So hopefully right after, you know, the following in the new year, we're really much more on target of where we're supposed to be for valuations, but that's we want to make sure this the staff, we know what they need for PD. They have a chance to weigh into that and look at their goals and meet their targeted goals. So that student achievement is where we need it to be.  So the organizational chart that I've shared there, so we're looking at positions specifically right now with the Dow, it is obviously down significantly.  And we're right sizing a lot of things we're talking about within the the systems for each school too. And what does the successful plan look like for the schools to meet the targeted educational needs and things? So,  this Friday, we meet with the principals again to go over the budgets and how to we. Millicent was great to help be our guinea pig for the initial organizational chart to align with what we need for tier one instruction, tier two instruction and tiers three instruction.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And that is our guiding principle for this year. And making sure that everybody's getting the right amount of instruction for setting up for next year, I should say. And

[17017-749] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-12-03
PREV> Loren Howard: even if we next meeting, which is, in my opinion, unlikely that Jim's going to be available to give us a presentation, decided that we would want to go with that. It would then be three months of deliberating what that's going to look like.
TEXT> That's also going into budget season. It just sounds this sounds like an impossibility. What that model idea we need to hear about now. But I don't think we're going to be able to do that until Matt Angel has gone in 27 and in mid 2027, and that'll be maybe a better time to actually initiate. We've got our holdovers gone. We are starting a new  now. I just think it's we need a specially at this moment someone who's going to actually lead us, not somebody who's going to stand around and collect $90,000 without a credential  in the educational office and go are looking good. BA. Right. Like, again, not to say that our superintendents have been parked. Clearly they haven't. Do we think somebody with no credentials who's getting less pay is going to be somehow better at getting like educating our children or making sure our schools have a cohesive  curriculum?
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: I don't understand what Matt has to do with it. I don't. Wait, that's what I. Don't understand. Well, it's not one person. It's a role that show him the

[17029-3] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; presiding member, Finance Subcommittee | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: actual spending over budget was significant. Number three, there were unexpected expenses during the year. This current year that we did not foresee. Sped, of course. There were some additional expenditures there. The statewide building billing. Excuse me, for additional school care costs of 868,000.
TEXT> That was a significant amount. And  health care variances.  And so the third one is this year, we have had prior year bills that we've had to pay this year that really weren't part of this year's budget, but we had to pay them in this year's money. And so to look at expenditures in this year's budget is,  is a little problematic because it's artificially high, because of having to pay last year's  items. Okay. So that sets the stage of why we can't use the current year's budget as a model going forward. There are also three considerations, at least three that I know of driving this budget process.  And I think it's important for everyone to recognize that this is our priority. These are our priorities. Number one, it's student achievement. We want to focus on student achievement. We have to get student achievement up.  The second is the student achievement. Some of it is driven by school configuration.  That has that impacts,  a school achievement. It impacts the budget. And we're looking and it also is impacted by  population models. And third, we also in the whole bunch of process.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Of course we are always sensitive to the financial impact on the property tax rate. Those are three consecutive concentric circles that we we focus on. The school configuration needs

[17029-4] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; presiding member, Finance Subcommittee | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: second is the student achievement. Some of it is driven by school configuration. That has that impacts, a school achievement. It impacts the budget. And we're looking and it also is impacted by population models. And third, we also in the whole bunch of process.
TEXT> Of course we  are always sensitive to the financial impact on the property tax rate. Those are  three consecutive concentric circles that we we focus on.  The school configuration needs a little further explanation. Declining student populations in Claremont must be considered. I know this is a really high topic and people are having a difficult time. I've talked to a number of people and I don't think they realize this and that. As soon as I'm done, it's going to give us some information, hard data about that,  about the impacts of that.  Obviously our buildings and the,  the condition of our current buildings.  We've been running on shoestring budgets for way too long, and we haven't addressed up updates to many of our buildings. And so we need to talk about that. And  we also want to see how,  how can we deliver services to students in the best way to improve their achievement. How can we utilize our staff most effectively to increase student achievement? There will be three options presented during our discussions, and I want everyone to realize that. But there will be no, we're not making any decisions here, folks.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We're just gathering data. And, we will be talking about the relative merits and drawbacks of the various models. And I'm sure that the public has thoughts and questions regarding

[17029-68] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: I, I wanted to look at achievement and, and we're about education where you have to deliver it in a fiscally responsible way. But that is not the only determining factor for this education model.
TEXT> No, but what I am going to say is that when I was sitting at the table, that was the message that we were projecting to the communities. We recognized then, right, that this was an achievement issue. And at the time it was a resource management issue. We actually weren't going to get huge budget savings by going to that model. The the position of the board at that time was it was a real achievement issue. And that to consolidate and to align all the courses and align all the grades was in the best interests of the kids that, you know, there may be a little bit of an economic benefit, but that wasn't the primary driver. So I'm just communicating this so that we are prepared to address these concerns to the public, which I will feel, I feel are going to be similar concerns that we will hear.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So I think that's important. I do think it is a we need to move on. And I. Agree. With you. The past is.

[17029-72] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-10
PREV> Candace Crawford: That is a component, but it's it's not the only component. That's all I'm saying.
TEXT> I have to I have to sit on both sides of the fence. So I have to go and work on student achievement, which which I have three goals. And then I also have to work on, making the organization efficient so that we can squeeze out, right, financial resources.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Just interject on the achievement part. So we did recognize at the last board meeting the schools that have come out of exited at sea. And you know and. I

[17029-427] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Matt Angell: engineer. So this is a this is like civil mechanical. I think it's like a mechanical engineer who just specializes in fire, life safety stuff. And what he's going to do is he's going to calculate what the capacity is for the. For the team.
TEXT> Well, I understand the capacity part, but for the scheduling part. So can we move these kids around as they rotate through the classes? Do we have enough classrooms and the capacity within the schedule?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Well, I think part of that is, constructing the schedule for the nine through 12 and limiting course offerings. Yes. To free up those extra classes.

[17029-433] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee member (uncertain — identifie | 2025-12-10
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Well, in teachers too. So it could be, you know, if you're offering Spanish, is it a Spanish 7 to 12? Is it 9 to 12. Is it. So you know. What does that look like?
TEXT> And so would there be, you know, what's the what's the impact academically and what's the impact financially to the budget? Sure. Now, I know there's a benefit to having  the, you know, one of the issues that we've had in the past, particularly at the middle school, is that there haven't been opportunities for high performing kids to access courses that would have them physically, you know, physical access for them to challenge. And so there is a benefit to that,  combining of the middle and the high school is so you, the kids that are high performing. Right. They could access, they could just go as fast as they and not get bored.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And structurally right now they're doing right, which is more options. Right. Because they cannot physically get to their our schedules aren't aligned so that if they took math at

[17037-118] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: So so above the 78 that aren't filled. Correct. How many are really needed that we have to put currently.
TEXT> Right. And the reason I'm I wanted to focus on this is we really to your point, candy. And and the the administration's point is we're trying to focus on student achievement. And so  for me, I really want to know the what positions are like, what are we really talking about as far as what we have for human resources to provide educational services to the kids. And like if we throw this,  number of 78 positions vacant to me, if I was somebody who wasn't watching these meetings and didn't know the little dirty details, I would be thinking, right now  we need 78 more people. Yeah. Where in reality we have we've dropped down a school, reconfigured. So what do we what do we what are our actual. Vital positions? And really.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What are the most critical.

[17037-181] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Matt Angell: Underneath special ed.
TEXT> Right. Okay. So that would be one of those student services, right. I'm going to push back.
NEXT> Matt Angell: It's in my experience that's the model for student services. Okay. Yeah. Now it's questionable whether you need to. I'm just going to say it to administrators. In the next

[17037-460] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: The what? The work that you've been doing with the administrator. Yes. When we're thinking of the three school models.
TEXT> I'm saying even with the for school model, like if we, no matter what model we go to, our  aim is to provide the best academic  options to align with the most achievement at a fair price to the taxpayer. And so  what? I'm afraid. I'm not afraid. What I'm hearing is that we're accepting the budgetary requests from the schools, primarily at CMS and Stevens High School, that mirror the programs that were,  offered prior to I called the tsunami event. Right. So  if we are actually going to value align ourselves to target student achievement, then we need to have our budget and our program program, programmatic offerings be aligned with those values.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Sure. We we just we just approved a program program of studies for the ice cream.

[17037-496] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; Finance Sub-Committee member | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: The the Masonic building was purchased. Correct. Correct.
TEXT> Because it was it cannot be that the right we cannot keep this program in the tech school and the tech building and the board at the time, with the support of the Citizens Advisory Group and the tech  subcommittee, requested that the board make a public motion supporting moving this program into another facility. Correct. And also a discussion occurred related to it is not in the best interest of the students that are in this type of program to be housed within a large school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Right, right, right.

[17037-543] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-12-12
PREV> Candace Crawford: Be an alternative.
TEXT> Politically, not this year. Maybe next year. But the the problem is, I, I would think that any any program related to bluff, the best thing you could do to it is to actually  give it to or rent it to a nonprofit that would offer that service for us for a fee. And so you're renting the building Safer 110,000,  but then it costs us,  you know, $200,000 to send the kids there. So then it's offsetting our, our, our costs.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But but we were the estimate we were provided was we could bring back almost 1.2 and out of district savings if we had the right.

