[15722-108] Kat McLaughlin | CURRICULUM DIRECTOR, SAU 6 - she presents the K-8 instructional-math p | 2024-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: raises heck with pacing. If you've got someone who's doing coverage and somebody else is doing mastery, right. So, I would hope that that would be part of the PD, that somehow what the what the district's message is, is going to be on that.
TEXT> Right. So what I'm trying to do,  and I should state too, that my background is as a middle school math teacher and then an instructional coach for mathematics. And I've done this work now for 8 to 10 years in terms of helping districts aligned to the standards and helping teachers  improve learning outcomes. And one of the things that's really helpful for teachers is understanding what are the most essential concepts for my grade level, and then what are the things that I can teach for exposure. So, for example,  first grade students need to be fluent with numbers one through ten. They need to be able to add and subtract,  and they need to be able to do that quickly and accurately. Shapes are not so important. Not that they're Not that students wouldn't learn shapes, but number one, they get exposed to that in their everyday world.  There are ways for teachers to expose kids to that. Those concepts and what those shapes are that can be incorporated into art.  So there are a variety of different ways to make sure that kids develop that essential understanding of shapes without necessarily focusing on that exclusively for two weeks. In math, if the students really need that additional time to become fluent within one through ten. So I'm really trying to help the district focus on the concepts from kindergarten to eighth grade that lead to success in algebra one.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We used to call that the must haves and the nice to knows.

[15722-164] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR of the Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC)  | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: This is a great opportunity. And they're crazy if they miss it.
TEXT> Right? Right. Well, we've had great, great reviews, rave reviews  for students that have gone through. And we've been tracking to see and we do get a good number of students that have gone through the summer program that are excited about coming back here. Good. There's a little gap because in ninth grade, they always get to take the electors that they want. But we've had actually this year, we had a student that took one of our electives and came to me and said, can I work the summer camp? And because it's Perkins funded, we can hire our students from here to work for that week and be a part of that.  That's what we're going to do.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's a great way for them to be introduced to the tech center.

[15722-212] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - she gavels in ('I would like to call t | 2024-05-15
PREV> Ben Nester: since 1819. We transitioned a number of students in and out of that program very successfully. And I feel like, you know, this year in particular, the program has absolutely gelled and become like a real, a real positive, very positive thing. Worse worth mentioning.
TEXT> What would you say  the transition rate is, say, in the pride program now that it's jelled? So you have like, is it 25% of the students that are enter the program by the next school year, they are able to exit or and integrate into the regular classroom setting.
NEXT> Ben Nester: That's a great question. I, I mean, I guess what I mean by gelled or really come together is, is the program really, is just like a well-oiled machine right

[15722-308] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member - she reads the ROLL CALL in the clerk's | 2024-05-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford.
TEXT> I'll make the motion to have Miss Whitney sign for on behalf of the Clements School Board  to agree to this side by letter of agreement.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: There a second. I'll second that. Is there. Any further discussion beyond what we've already taken time for? Mr..

[15722-339] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District - she presents the S | 2024-05-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> We. Pay to send some of our kids out to the company, bought and stuff like that.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And we haven't spent any of. That.

[15786-12] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (strategic-planning consultant) | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: in speaking, we're going to close citizens comments, and we're going to move forward with our first agenda item, which is the DMG presentation for strategic planning for our strategic planning process. And, Tessa, I'm sorry I don't have your last name, but welcome to.
TEXT> Nicholson Powers. Yes. Thank you. Yes.  Good evening. It's great to see you all. And thank you so much for having me. Yes. Excited to talk tonight, both about how the district is going to approach the strategic plan, the why and the what, and then we'll talk about how that is going to work. So just introduction of myself. I'm a director at District Management Group. I  and I will be leading this work with my team who's not here tonight.  I've done this work in over 60 school districts across the country, from small one building school districts in Kentucky to Los Angeles and many places in between. And I lead our strategic planning and special education practice areas at DM Group. So I'm very excited to be with you all tonight. So just to give you a little background on district Management Group,  we fundamentally believe that in order to create systemic change in public education, there needs to be a focus both on educational but also management best practices. So through the strategic planning work, we will have a relentless focus, of course, on student outcomes, but also strategic resource allocation and operational efficiency to see the results you want for students.
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: As I mentioned, we've worked with hundreds of districts across the country. You can see some examples here, but supporting millions over students. We have a few different business units

[15786-14] Tess Nicholson-Powers | Director, District Management Group (strategic-planning consultant) | 2024-06-05
PREV> Tess Nicholson-Powers: for common elements, which you can see here. We found that only 3% of strategic plans we studied had some type of prioritization, 3 to 5 priorities. What we typically find is strategic plans can be very lengthy, beautiful documents that sometimes live on shelves.
TEXT> I and don't actually guide the day to day work of the district. In addition, when we talk to folks in multiple districts stakeholders, whether it be school leaders, staff, community members, families sometimes don't feel like their voice is heard. And it was written, you know, in a separate room. So really, our approach was founded on this research and discussion with others. So a couple of key components of our strategic planning approach that are important. So the first one there is getting alignment among stakeholders. And I'll talk about how we've already started doing that  ability to prioritized having a short list of priorities to stay focused,  setting a guiding theory of action strategy that drives budget choices so that budgeting will become those decisions, hopefully a little easier once you align on strategy. And then lastly, being able to track progress against your strategy. So having actual targets goals to know if you were successful. So with that this is our framework. We printed it out  for school and district leaders today to hang in there offices  and of course starts with the mission and vision. What are the aspirations that you hope to be true for the students you serve and the district?
NEXT> Tess Nicholson-Powers: Going into a theory of action. So I'll spend a little time here. You may have heard this called Theory of change, but essentially a theory of action is your

[15786-31] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Melissa Lewis: I will defer to Mr. Kosky.
TEXT> Yes, we're. We're looking at doing a trimester grading for elementary. The first quarter makes itself for a very short grading period, particularly in the younger grades. And so several weeks are spent just getting kids accustomed to school. And then we end up with six weeks of material to grade from. And so by extending it to a trimester, we get a better picture of the child early in the school year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Great idea.

[15786-69] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: that our Swot analysis was provided. To our consulting team and to the administration to help incorporate those goals within the strategic plan. And so that's all I have to offer on that agenda item. Moving forward to the New Hampshire sass. Results. Mr. Costa.
TEXT> Great. So the first thing to note is English scores have not yet been released. We were told May and then June, and,  they did a new writing.  Sample in the scoring is taking longer than expected. So here are overall grades 3 to 8.  Were Sass scores in math. Now I'm afraid I don't have them on the slides. I'm sorry, but the the state average for math was 43% and the English average was 51%. We won't we won't be able to compare English scores tonight. But that was from last year. So math 43% and then science 37% moving from left to right. These are our best scores. Those are the lower scores. Red is a below grade level. Yellow is approaching. Green is on grade level and blue is above. So we, we have about half of our students for  proficient than the state average does. And when you look overall now that isn't encouraging. It shows us we have work to do. But as we break it down a little bit, there are some bright spots.  Here they are by school and grade three. I just want to note over at, bluff, our grade third grade students perform much better. This is their, overall score of 26%, but it's much better than the rest of the district. And we have some teachers there that are doing a great job in improving.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And I like to think of don't have direct evidence, but I like to think it's based upon the PD that we did last year with our math instructors. And

[15786-72] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Mike Koski: the strand data in the end of June. Grade five science. Science is tested grades five, eight and 11. And it's an accumulation of science in grades three, four and five for this grade five test. The state average was 37% for the science exam.
TEXT> And we're we're lagging behind. I would say a bigger part of our,  science grade is the  need to improve reading skills. Almost every science question has a section of reading that needs to be done and understood. And then you read graphs, you read pictures, you read data charts and then apply that information back and forth. And so by building our students reading skills, we'll see these scores improve. Here's the grade eight science again. Seventh eighth grade had half a year of online science and a half a year with a teacher. I think that has impacted their scores. And then grade 1,121% compared to the 37% state average. Looking at some trends, grade seven, we can go back to this. The current grade seven students, and we can see back when they were in fifth grade and taking the math test. So fifth, fourth grade, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh grade. And what we see is this growing gap at the bottom where students are not catching up. And so we really need to address that.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Our top performers tend to be shrinking a little bit and our students falling behind seems to be increasing. So if we look at the eighth grade group as they

[15786-82] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: But they're being tested.
TEXT> But it's being tested in 11th grade. You're right. Yeah. And and throughout. And I think as we were chatting about earlier, the the science test itself has the information in the question. And it's a, it's, it tends to be a thinking okay type of question. So I don't think we're really putting our students at a disadvantage by not requiring the Earth science course.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do you have access to release items that we could see? Yes, I would love to see what examples of.

[15786-207] Heather Whitney | Board Chair | 2024-06-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: that's that's a huge struggle. I mean, we're lucky we pretty much have it on the same campus. So it's opening new opportunities, but really breaking down those perceptions of what a tech center used to be compared to this is what it should be.
TEXT> One more thing. I know we're running out of time, but this was exciting too. There was a representative from River Valley Community College that was there, and they are so ready to embrace everything that we're I mean. Yes, they couldn't. Be more excited. Yes, they were to help us facilitate whatever we need to. We would like to facilitate their offering,  professors or offering space,  talking about being able to bus students from here to  River Valley Community College to take courses there. And in particular, this would be great for kids who do not thrive in a traditional high school environment. So it could open a lot of doors  that have really no cost to the district. It's just we have opportunities that are available that we we haven't been able to tap into,  for numerous reasons, scheduling or just having a vision of how it will look and what and what it will mean for our students.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So because I can tell you, I mean, from high school to now, the position of winning now River Valley Community College has been such a true and really trying

[15786-208] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: cost to the district. It's just we have opportunities that are available that we we haven't been able to tap into, for numerous reasons, scheduling or just having a vision of how it will look and what and what it will mean for our students.
TEXT> So because I can tell you, I mean, from high school to now, the position of winning now River Valley Community College has been such a true  and really trying to get the kids that experience, no matter where they lie, whether they're struggling or not.  You know, I've already had a, you know, quick conversation with, in with Jerry Apel and the gentleman who was there and stuff and guides to we want to start working at both ends. We want to find a way to, you know, maybe there's an opportunity to take the academy and move it over to the community college. So there's kids feel what you know to be successful, not successful, but give them that experience, because sometimes that's all they need is like, I can do it. And at the same time, providing an academy for the other end where students need to be challenged more. And so every step of the way that men willing to work with us, and I think that, you know, we should be lucky not as a school, but as a community, to have such true partners where we're going to be able to really reach that next level with all learners and giving them the opportunity at a college level class, no matter where they are. Because sometimes that's all they need is like like, you know, being in that professional environment, I.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yes.

[15786-216] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2024-06-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So other business.
TEXT> I just want to, thank  Mr. Sprague for attending the the breakfast this morning.  It's always nice to, you know, show united front and having the kids see us, you know, all sitting around the table as as one team and we're able to talk to the kids. We're able to talk to each other. But it was much appreciated by, you know, school administration, myself and the students. Just to have us all kind of just sitting at the same table. So it was nice.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: You know, you're getting old when one of the administrators at the table with you as a former student.

[15814-20] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: insight into, you know, me coming on as you know, superintendent. So I want to thank him. I wish we were working together longer, but I wish him the best of luck and appreciate everything he's done for Sussex community. Thank you Ben. Thank you.
TEXT> And on behalf of the board, we we knew about this  resignation a while ago when we've kind of all been misty eyed about it before. And  so for the folks in the public that didn't see that, we want to acknowledge Mister Nestor's contribution.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you. Good luck to you.

[15814-28] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: So I want to confine. So I'm protecting his identity.
TEXT> We're moving on to discussion and action items. The first  item on our agenda this evening will be  presented by Doctor Herzog. And before you start, on behalf of the board, we publicly acknowledge again, we wish you the best of luck.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Thank you. Appreciate that.

[15814-31] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you for all that you've done for us.
TEXT> So on behalf of Andre, who's our chair of the Vision Committee. He asked me to read this before we get our Shri report. And I think we're Winkler's up there ready to go on that report part, so that's great. So,  good evening. Board members. And I'm reading this off what Andy said. Tonight, the vision committee for Claremont sugar River Valley Regional Career and Technical Center is pleased to present the findings of a comprehensive study conducted as the first phase of a longer term project intended to ensure the continued success and improvement of our CTE center. The study is the culmination of a project that started after the 2022 deliberative session, inspired by our community's aspirations for a CTE center and programs that are cornerstone of the educational experience here, providing important career direction and opportunities for its many current and future students. The process was meticulously carried out over the. With the assistance of the Southern Regional Education Board, SRB,  a leading authority in CTE educational excellence, and marks a foundational step towards advancing the quality of education and career readiness offered at our center.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: The purpose of this study was to critically assess our current programs, identify areas for growth, and provide inputs for a strategic plan that assures insurers alignment of our offerings

[15814-32] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Alex Herzog: future students. The process was meticulously carried out over the. With the assistance of the Southern Regional Education Board, SRB, a leading authority in CTE educational excellence, and marks a foundational step towards advancing the quality of education and career readiness offered at our center.
TEXT> The purpose of this study was to critically assess our current programs, identify areas for growth, and provide inputs for a strategic plan that assures insurers alignment of our offerings with the needs of our students, and with the current and future demands of our regional labor market. The scope of the study included analysis of student performance, labor market alignment, program quality, access, and equity and career advisement systems. Our intent is to see these recommendations fleshed out further and implemented beginning with the second phase, for which she has already been hired to help facilitate. We are confident that our community will achieve all that is recommended, recognizing that with the help of sRGB, our school board and the SAR leadership and implementation will occur thoughtfully, ensuring the priorities are balanced with resources. The recommendations presented tonight represent a foundational step in the work that comes next. We firmly believe in the importance of the center and its programing to the educational experiences in our community, and to the future of its many students currently enrolled and yet to come. You're invited to engage with these recommendations, support their implementation, and join us in our commitment to providing every student with the career pathway and tools they need to drive thrive.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Excuse me. Thank you to our and their guidance and expertise to our director, Alex Herzog. Vision Committee members, see you leadership, school board members and the Claremont community for

[15814-33] Alex Herzog | DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVRTC) - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Alex Herzog: and to the future of its many students currently enrolled and yet to come. You're invited to engage with these recommendations, support their implementation, and join us in our commitment to providing every student with the career pathway and tools they need to drive thrive.
TEXT> Excuse me. Thank you to our and their guidance and expertise to our director, Alex Herzog.  Vision Committee members, see you leadership, school board members and the Claremont community for supporting this process as we strive for excellence and brighter future for our students.  Sincerely, Andy, the chair of the River Regional Vision Committee. So thank you. And I'll leave it to Mr. Winkler. Doctor Winkler.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: Thank you. Alex, I appreciate that introduction. Give me just one second. I'll get my slide presentation.

[15814-37] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: be educators and decision makers to review data and promising practices. And we develop action plans and our coaches and our program directors in the Office of School Improvement help state education agencies, as well as school districts and local schools implement these action plans.
TEXT> And we currently provide professional learning and coaching services to schools and districts in 30 states across the nation. It was back in early 2023 when we were first contacted by Claremont CTE Vision Committee  about conducting a review of its technical center. And after several meetings, it was decided the best process would be to use sRGB career pathway review. We call it the CPR and the CPR process. It helps schools and districts and even regional consortia of secondary and post-secondary and industry partners determine whether their existing CTE programs align with opportunities for students to earn credentials and degrees, and launch careers in the high demand fields, and also meet Perkins five the federal CTV act. The requirements of it, which require that periodically all schools conduct a comprehensive local needs assessment, and it ensures that the current programs align with your regional labor market needs, and it provides the school and the district and opportunity to involve community partners in this continuous improvement process. So I'll briefly just give you a little overview of the process that was followed.  This began in the fall of 2023 with the review of data. We call this first a desktop audit. The data elements include enrollment in the CTE programs over the past three years. Looking at student achievement, both academic and technical achievement. And we  went available.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: We looked at student transition data. And then we held three virtual sessions with the CTE Vision Committee where the data was discussed. And we did a little deeper in

[15814-38] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: began in the fall of 2023 with the review of data. We call this first a desktop audit. The data elements include enrollment in the CTE programs over the past three years. Looking at student achievement, both academic and technical achievement. And we went available.
TEXT> We looked at student transition data. And then we held three virtual sessions with the CTE Vision Committee where the data was  discussed. And we did a little deeper in each component of the data. And on site visit was held March 28th and 29th.  Two members of the shrub Review team came to Claremont to observe the CTE classrooms at the Tech Center. We held interviews with district leaders and school leaders.  We held interviews with teachers, students and the high school counselor. Also, the team reviewed several artifacts such as course assessments,  syllabi, and teacher self-assessments. We use the Association for Career and Technical Education's High quality CTE program review. They have a self-assessment that was administered to the teachers, and we looked at that data. As I stated earlier, Perkins, five with the Federal Reserve Bank of Education Act. Does the local education agencies periodically conduct a comprehensive local needs assessment? And you see here on this  slide the needs assessment areas that are addressed. And we have aligned our career pathway review process to  meet these six areas under student performance. We're asking the question. How are students doing in their core academic courses and technical courses and their labor market alignment? The question is, do the CTE programs aligned with the in-demand and high speed jobs in the region?  As far as size, scope and quality, do the programs in the industry standards, and do they safely accommodate students interested in a particular career cluster?
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: When we talk about programs of study and the implementation of the programs study, is there a clearly defined sequence of both core academic and technical courses that will provide

[15814-41] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: of a health science, a rare cluster. And within this cluster are the pathways of health informatics, biotechnology research and development and therapeutic services. Followed by that are the programs of study specific to a data analyst, a bio medical engineer, and a registered nurse.
TEXT> When we talk about the program of study, we would talk about the  both core academic and the technical courses one would take on the path at the secondary level and the post-secondary level in order to be a registered nurse. So I just wanted to share that. So as I say those terms career cluster, career pathway, and part of the study, that you have an understanding of what I'm talking about. It's very important for students, parents, counselors and teachers to understand career clusters where pathways and programs of study to make informed decisions  about course selections, about industry credentials that will be offered, about work based learning and dual enrollment opportunities. Students need to see the end game, or they need a map and help them achieve it well. In a clearly defined program of study for the various career pathways, helps in making good choices and becoming completer of the CTE program. Also, it assists with making smooth transitions from the post-secondary education to the workplace. Thus, you'll find in the red section of the report that we provided an emphasis on programs of study and career advisement.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: So I want to draw your attention now to the. That was on the completion of the review on pages four through 15 of the report, you'll find data that

[15814-43] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: sunset existing programs. You'll find in the report several tables and charts that you'll want to dive into and review carefully. And we'll be happy if we need to come back at another time to go into each one of these data points with you.
TEXT> Really courage that this data is analyzed by the school leaders, by faculty, by the CTE Vision Committee and community partners. And then the following questions really should be asked. What does the data tell us? How will the district and community use the data? When in the future will the data be collected again and analyze? And what additional data elements are needed to make informed decisions about program offerings, about staffing, about the professional learning and development we need to provide to our instructors, about program quality and how we're going to continuously look to improve about student learning experiences, and also, how are people, our community in this? Because they really need to be at the table helping lead the discussions around the tech center. When we get beyond the data. And the next section is on page 16 of the report, we highlight some promising practices that we  had while we were there on site. And we really encourage the community and the leadership of the school district to build upon these promising practices. Through our interviews with focus groups, through district leadership, we found out that there is a high level of support for career and technical education.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: Many people, including the students that we talked to, appear to want the technical center to expand and succeed. And that's great because there is a lot of data out

[15814-44] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: site. And we really encourage the community and the leadership of the school district to build upon these promising practices. Through our interviews with focus groups, through district leadership, we found out that there is a high level of support for career and technical education.
TEXT> Many people, including the students that we talked to,  appear to want the technical center to expand and succeed. And that's great because there is a lot of data out there, a lot of research that is done, done that shows that students who are actively engaged in a CTE program are more likely to graduate than those who do not participate in CTE. They're also more likely to go on to some form of post-secondary education and training than those who do not concentrate in career and technical education, and they are more likely to be employed for years after graduating from high school than those who do not concentrate in career education. Your facility there in Claremont for its age, is in a very good condition and it has room to add additional CTE programs. Students in most of the classrooms that we observed were engaged during those observations, and the interviews that we held with students just confirmed dissipating in their CTE classes. Now, in the final section of the report, pages 17 through 25, we address five over arching recommendations. The first recommendation focuses on high quality programs of study. As I stated earlier, it's important for all students in the district to have access to information about course sequences that will help them achieve their career and life goals. I'm getting a lot of feedback. I apologize as I'm going through this. Check my body.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: But what courses are going to allow those students to achieve the credentials that are valued by your regional, business and industry, and what's going to help them transition smoothly

[15814-46] Dr. Dale Winkler | SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, Southern Regional Education Board (SREB; ASR 'S | 2024-06-20
PREV> Dr. Dale Winkler: adding therapeutic services, as well as teaching and counseling. Also, additional data that's been shared with us after our audit and looking at newer labor market data shows the opportunity to look in the area of biomedical technology and its growth there in your region.
TEXT> Also, to see improvements in student achievement, students must be willing to put forth more efforts. And one strategy for helping students put forth effort is the integration of core academic skills and CTE programs. Career and technical education helps provide context for learning math, science, and English language arts. The integration of core academics and CTE can be enhanced by offering students the opportunity to gain real life experiences through workplace learning, dual enrollment and participation in career and technical student organizations such as schools USA, There's Future Business Leaders of America and Health Occupation Students Association, and one mechanism to address these recommendations is through input and assistance from the community. The CTE Vision Committee provides a means for addressing the recommendation and it's important to CTE Vision Committee. Continue to meet and guide the city programs, and you'll find that there are recommendations there for how to make that a permanent, focus and committee on May 30th, the CTE Vision Committee, along with three members of your school board, meant to unpack the findings and the recommendations in the report.
NEXT> Dr. Dale Winkler: It provided an opportunity for stakeholders to review these findings and to ask questions. We also facilitated a gallery walk, where teams of 3 or 4 discussed in detail one

[15814-62] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Our next item on our agenda is a presentation and a discussion related to a Stevens High School trip to Puerto Rico. From Doctor Michael to Harrington.
TEXT> Thank you. I just wanted to. I  am not being a person tonight. And I have the second apology, because at 630 tonight, I found out that my camera on my computer is no longer,  compatible with Chrome. So you're seeing. My name is bass.  The trip that, we're looking into is  a parent came up to me  and had expressed it. They had gone  on trips and Puerto Rico several years ago and  thought it was very, important for the students to have access to similar trips. And in conversation, we came to the conclusion that it is a fantastic, fantastic place to live and work. And I think if it's going to do all that, it would be an access to  an experience, different culture, and see how people working in places,  and I know that the trip that would come to you to go was a big success. And in  conversation with. In the district,  trying to put a trip like this for juniors and seniors every other year so  students that could go,  you know, in their high school career at Stevens had the opportunity  to at least once  have access to a trip like this. The  trip is put together through the same  company that they went on before, and I believe we even have  a substantial credit with them.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: And as part of this, we're looking at a five day trip and trying to limit it so it aligns with the people break minimize the time actually out of

[15814-70] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: So I believe you're asking me to be loaded into Spanish. Is that correct?
TEXT> Students that have completed Spanish two at least. Yeah. So I'm wondering what the criteria is. If it's open to all students, if we're limiting it to specific students in that are in Spanish, two are above. And what the funding mechanism. What what the anticipated funding mechanism was.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Oh sure. Yes. We're looking to get my colleagues. You're cutting in and out. So I'm trying to piece something together. So if it doesn't, I don't think you're not

[15814-90] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you. Are there any other questions or comments from the board before we proceed with a vote, miss Gillen, are.
TEXT> I wonder. What what. Will be the implications and possible challenges that we have to face if the fundraising goal is not met? For every student that hoped to attend the trip, for them to like, for them to overcome whatever financial burden they need to to overcome. I guess that's another question. More of a more concern. Yeah, yeah.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. patron.

[15814-93] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee - CHAI | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Petrin: group, but so that was my understanding of how these have worked in the past, is that, you know, you're going to spend at least this amount we're going to fundraise through as a group. We're going to fundraise individually to bring your total down.
TEXT> Then as part of the I would, I would like to I do support this going forward. And I guess my comment is like to strongly urge the  adults who are organizing this and coming up with the fundraising scheme that we will proceed with to investigate fundraising schemes that are expected to yield the kind of results that would allow a student, any student, to attend, possibly even a student who may have like zero family contribution. Like if it's if it's selling something. I want a student to be able to sell $1,200 worth of something. And not that we pick a fundraising scheme where you can the max profit opportunities $800. Does that make sense? Like for us to do our research and make sure that the profit opportunity for the fundraising scheme aligned with the needs of the student to attend the trip?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other comments. Or questions? Mr. Pratt?

[15814-99] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: And not to speak to Doctor Harrington, but I'm sure he's he's on board with that as well.
TEXT> Yeah. So those were discussed as absolutely, absolutely discusses. You know, anyone going on a trip through high schools representing the high school? And once we have standing in behavior and increase and that would be well,  as far as, you know, making sure that raising is available to being able to find that, I will not with very little meetings and when I'm trips and ended up where I am today because of that,  I would in my genuine hope to offer that to our students as well.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any other comments before we vote? All in favor? Doctor. Miss Kronborg, would you mind reading the motion?

[15814-110] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> Okay. So again, and I think it's Mr. Pratt said it's the period schedule is really there's pros and cons to a period schedule and for the cons to a block. And the important thing is to be looking at our population now,  and the things that we're seeing. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to give you a very quick snapshot, which is  a lot of what Mr. Kosky is going to show you when you go over sass testing and just a couple of data points. Right? So when we,  when we look at, the current what  we are in our staff, science scores, you know, 62% of our students have to go in science scores this year. That's a very significant number. You know, and following on looking at SAT scores,  and the reading and writing, you had, 46.5%,  not yet approaching the standard and the math. You had any 1% not yet approaching, significant numbers that are showing the students aren't where we would like them to be.  They they can get there, but what? They're not good yet. And I think what's worse is that the Excel diagnostic, which is really needed for remediation. Mr. Pratt, when you came in and it was the students were and that they needed a tool for remediation in 94.9% of the students tested, which is about half of the student body.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So this does not represent the entire body. But what, you know, far greater level, which is a significant issue. So what we have is, for whatever reason, whether it's,

[15814-114] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: you have everyone actually in a class, which doesn't happen in block schedule at the time. Tiny class. And this is, this is the tough information is when we move to the digital path system. And we were we were able to pull that data.
TEXT> The average path time being made is 15 minutes. That's 15 minutes out of class for these kids.  And that tells me personally they can't sit in class for 78 minutes. I do walk through. I see a lot of students. Halfway through three quarters, through their block class, they  have their head down. They're trying to sneak you to, not on the phones anymore. But but they're finding ways to disengage. So the statistic that I gave in front of you are the passes for a semester two, which was 88 student days. You had, you know, a few students that had one pass during that, you know, the entire semester. Two.  You had one with 422, which is, I think, you know,  four passes on the four passes a day. Your your mean is 63 and your medians 47. And that means that in a way of median, being 47, you've got some kids in that high end which pushed that over.  So you've got a significant amount of kids  that are outside,  you know, that that are  in the classroom. Frankly, because they can't sustain. And it's not just and I know  some of the conversation is, you know, you're looking at your struggling students and you're looking at your high fliers.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Do you have some high fliers that do well in a block schedule? Yeah. Is it the majority of the school? No. The majority of the school, from what the

[15814-115] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: of kids that are outside, you know, that that are in the classroom. Frankly, because they can't sustain. And it's not just and I know some of the conversation is, you know, you're looking at your struggling students and you're looking at your high fliers.
TEXT> Do you have some high fliers that do well in a block schedule? Yeah. Is it the majority of the school? No.  The majority of the school, from what the data showing me in my observations, is that they have a very difficult time with block scheduling.  Also, when you do the math out. If you have 40% more time  in front of the teacher. And when you  are,  you know, below where you should be academically  is that time is invaluable. 14% of extra teacher time is incredibly important time. Some added positives that we have. Is that the  run, you know, students have been asked if they want  and there was a high rate of return. I believe 97% of the students, got what they wanted. If you try to get there, he can confirm that. I pulled that from my notes, but I believe that's, that's the number that we've talked about. I mean, it did well in what they wanted.  Also the negatively affected. You're running double block there. It will actually get a little bit of a increased teacher telling,  you know, I think moving to a period currently a block of 78 minutes and you're going to be moving to a.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Two period of 45 minutes ago. Get 90 minutes. They'll get 12 extra minutes. You know, which is, I think, rather important. And that's, that's mostly everything that I have

[15814-118] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - onset immediately after the chair | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any questions on the board? I saw Frank sand first, Mr. Sprague.
TEXT> Someone asked Charlie a question. So? So the 97. Percent. Is that 97% of the kids got. No.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's 99. It's the run that we have. 90. Which is. Which is just so it's.

[15814-121] Unidentified | DIARIZER CATCH-ALL CLUSTER - 55 mostly sub-second fragments ('Thank yo | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: So the folks at home.
TEXT> Yeah. Okay. Thank you. So the schedule that we built  the first run was 90%, which is I mean, we've scheduled anywhere from like 82 all the way up to 95. And as you know, just because you get 90 doesn't mean that that's a great schedule either, right? I mean, it all comes down to how many holes have to be filled in the kids schedule because normally they don't get everything that they want. So I can I can just jump in for.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So when I when I hear.

[15814-123] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: So when I when I hear.
TEXT> That note, it tells me that 100% of the kids got 90% of what they wanted. Correct. It doesn't mean that 90% of the kids got everything they wanted. Correct? Correct. Right. So but I can, I can I can honestly tell you that building this schedule.  We did very, very, very well. I mean, I had  a lot of fears, and some of you have been on the board for years, and you might remember when we did the A, B, B schedule and that was the nightmare right there. It was a nightmare for a couple of years. I'm still seeing medical people. People, you know, when the kids sing a song about a graduation. That. Yeah. Yeah, I can, I can tell you, though, with a pretty good comment. I've been doing this, you know, building them for over 20 years that I'm very, very happy with the way the schedule came out. I think many would even talk to the fact that finding  substitute classes and alternate classes for students to go into for things that they might not have gotten, should be relatively easy and much easier than previous years under the block schedule. So I'm very, very confident about that. And it must have been in cars. Yeah. Abandoned cars on what we did.
NEXT> Unidentified: So we have a little bit more flexibility with the seven period day in the past. As you know, under the block period three was an extended block. So what

[15814-124] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: go into for things that they might not have gotten, should be relatively easy and much easier than previous years under the block schedule. So I'm very, very confident about that. And it must have been in cars. Yeah. Abandoned cars on what we did.
TEXT> So we have a little bit more flexibility with the seven period day in the past. As you know, under the block period three was an extended block. So what we would do is we would run into the blocks and we would run music the first 45 minutes. Then we would have a 30 minute lunch for those students and then those students that also wanted to do, let's say, concert choir could do concert choir  with the other half of that period, or they could do a study hall and the same thing. If they did choir without them, they could do a study hall, in this case under the seventh period Day band in its own block. I believe it came up period one under the seventh period day and choir came out on its own, I think, period two, if I remember correctly.  Right. So that's.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's enough from having done millions of details.

[15814-126] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's enough from having done millions of details.
TEXT> Yeah, yeah. So so, what I like about that, right, is under the blocks, band and choir were forced into block three because we knew that we wanted to split them and still have the flexibility to offer lunch at the same time without impacting the rest of the students day. With a seven period day having smaller classes, we can say schedule that. Where best needs to go doesn't have to be in the middle of the day. If we can go block one, put a block one. If it can go block, you know, block seven, put it in block seven. So what this did is it allowed greater flexibility.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: To me that was one of the biggest issues always has been because it would eliminate kids from coming up here at the third block. And any honors classes are

[15814-130] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Whitney Skillen: ago. Yeah. There might have been some conflict with tech classes because of the length of time it takes to do them. I don't even know. Yeah. And so I'm wondering, is there a way that this schedule accommodates that, like a double period? Okay.
TEXT> So every single tech center class. So under the old school, just so you can compare because I don't know the history of how much of you guys know. But under the blocks get period. Every class, whether it be Tech Center or Stevens High School academic or elective or Altria, the same, they were all one individual block, which meant for the 78 minutes. We know that if we go to a 45 minute block, it's not enough time to get the kids up here and then back. Like what would be the instructional time? On top of that, we also have to worry about our students that want to go to Newport, and that also are coming from Newport to our programs. Not going to come here for 15 minutes just to go back. So what we did is we double blocked every single tech center class. So if you're taking a tech center class, A level one class is an example. Let's say building construction one. You'll come to the tech center for periods one and two. There's your 90 minutes  now to get to your other  of do we have the flexibility? Yes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Because we kept advisory and we put that at the end of block two. So that again, for the students that are dealing with transportation to and from Newport on

[15814-131] Unidentified | STEVENS HIGH SCHOOL / SRVRTC MASTER-SCHEDULE BUILDER - male, in the ro | 2024-06-20
PREV> Unidentified: taking a tech center class, A level one class is an example. Let's say building construction one. You'll come to the tech center for periods one and two. There's your 90 minutes now to get to your other of do we have the flexibility? Yes.
TEXT> Because we kept advisory and we put that at the end of block two. So that again, for the students that are dealing with transportation to and from Newport on our end, we want to make sure that they can get back here in time for the start of block three and not miss out on any instructional time. That's going to be key, because if they come back late and the blocks are only 45 minutes, if you have an English class third block and it's, you know, so we purposely set up the schedule in a way to ensure that for the level one and the level two classes, which are the ones that are most impacted by Newport, that we still have basically the same time frame set in place so that those students are not negatively impacted due to transportation needs.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Awesome.

[15814-144] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected March 2024; chair since 4/5/ | 2024-06-20
PREV> Michael Herrington: of teachers to come up to me, and when I read a communication committee, I'm there all summer. And I think those things out and be available to any parent that wants to talk and go over things. And I'm back August 14th. So families.
TEXT> You're working with the families. As well. It does sound like the kids were exposed to this, and the families were introduced because you were running the.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Schedule, right? Yes, like a mock one. And so the kids understand what this one looks like.

[15814-145] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School - PARTICIPATING REMOTELY, with his came | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: You're working with the families. As well. It does sound like the kids were exposed to this, and the families were introduced because you were running the.
TEXT> Schedule, right? Yes, like a mock one. And so the kids understand what this one looks like.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just have two quick questions. What's the impact on class sizes and teacher load?

[15814-152] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Pratt.
TEXT> And I'd like to add is that when you talk about students who want to continue to, to, you know, challenge themselves and get more, it's now that we're moving more,  we have we've doubled the amount of classes we have for dual enrollment through the community college. So it's not like before. It's like they take their history class and then they want to take AP history. They have to take two separate classes. Now that one class can facilitate both, they can get the the dual credit and college credit  and also their high school credit for that. So at one point, you know, students would technically could be missing because. Oh my AP classes at the same time as this. So I'm going to miss out. Now we've combined them. So they're in a class. They can get their dual credit as well as their history credit.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Did you have any comments to make about the teachers reception to this and the collective bargaining update?

[15814-155] Michael Herrington | PRINCIPAL, Stevens High School (remote) - THE SAME VOICE the diarizer  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: several times and Doctor Harrington has done the same way and Doctor Harrington tell me if I'm wrong, but there was an overwhelming support from the from the faculty that they prefer a period schedule over the block under the current circumstances. Is that correct?
TEXT> Yeah. I put out a survey, ask and really just ask. Two things is number one, how ready are you? And number two, you know, do you think this is, you know, better for the student? You know, they, the surveys definitely said that they thought better students more than they were ready for it, but again, it often said they were ready for it. You know, there's some trepidation. It is a it's a change for them. From the conversation with the majority of the staff is that,  you know, there's a couple of things that we need to be able to do well, make it work. And really, it comes down to, facing guys, which they've worked on, on for the majority of the year. Making sure that they're ready for it and then also moving into procedurals for your  higher classrooms. Right. You know, with the 45 minutes, you got a minute? And how do we milk it for every minute that we have? And that's the beginning of the PBS all around that at the high school right now. So that would be our absolutely ready to move into it and  start learning.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there any further discussion from the board before we vote? Seeing none. Would, you know, would you please read the motion again?

[15814-160] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Okay.
TEXT> Excuse me. Okay. So. I we put out a survey to staff, teachers and students for both surveys. Received a around 50% return, which which is great. So 225 students and 32 out of 57 faculty. And then you have the results in front of you for the questions we were able to quantify. But basically the surveys were the same. Has the, for the teachers has affected student learning? Can you give examples? Was it how easy or difficult is it to to  comply with it  and suggestions or  comments for the students? I had an additional question of how often do you bring your phone to school? And they're still bringing their phone every day. You look at the data, it's really not kept kids from bringing their phones to school. They had a very different opinion than the teachers.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: What a surprise.

[15814-163] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> Right. So the, the really interesting thing in this first question, the impact on student learning, there were two choices that it's somewhat worse or made it much worse. And there was no response from teachers on both of those categories. So pretty strong response from staff. And then in terms of compliance. How difficult is it. Nobody said very difficult. And a small percentage said somewhat difficult. Most said it was very easy. And if you can take a look at the comments, I just tried to pick some some positives and negatives, but generally they're appreciative of the clarity of the rules and, the lack of the need for discussion and an argument in class about why the phone should be away instead of out and being used. Students, on the other hand, still bring their phone all the time, but, most found it. Hasn't had an impact or it was a somewhat negative impact.  Some about a quarter said it's much worse.  But when you when I dig a little deeper into that much worse and we look at the comments about and the, the, the comments are classified as somewhat better, much better, somewhat worse.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And the much worse comments are, from an adult perspective, not so severe, I would say. So one was, without having phones in school, we won't be able to capture

[15814-167] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: to understand the way it's, you know, works at the high schools is going to look different at the middle school, middle school, you know, they might say needs to be in the pouch. We need to see it and it needs to be off.
TEXT> You know, you might have to go back to at the beginning of the year to to do the same thing when we first rolled it out to high school. But, you know, we've seen huge results from that, from the academics to relationship building. And but I mean, it's the kids want to do it. No. But I can say is the former principal is that they stepped up and they did it. You're always going to have a few who, who, who didn't, but they got it soon enough. And kids are always going to find ways to make to it. But  overall it was very proud and impressed with the faculty, the staff and the students in regards to, you know, they didn't like it, but they did it. And I think that's that's the bigger thing there. And they were honest in their their feedback in the, in the results. But I think the, the, the pros outweigh the cons when you have something like this. And how much of an impact it can make negatively on a school climate, just being able to have them at all times.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One quick comment. So maybe we should start and looking at the student comments, start teaching kids how to read analog clocks in kindergarten.

[15814-178] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Excuse me. I. I only received one complaint from a parent. Excellent. Since the beginning of this and and that was just very initially when it when it was begun. I don't know if you have.
TEXT> Yeah. I, I received I think two and we were able to resolve the situation through my kid is not bringing his phone to school, so therefore he doesn't need the pouch as they will have the pouch. And instead of  showing that  you know his post, he can. We just gave him a card and that was the parent had to sign off saying, I know my son or daughter is not bringing their their phone to school and so is the card. So we're able to resolve that. But, yeah, I was like I said, I was we were very surprised, but very, happy with the way, you know, students stepped up to the plate. Parents seemed to be very supportive of it. You know, for situations they,  they can come down the office, have their phone unlocked and used it. So we try to make these accommodations along the way where we were listening to the parents, we were listening to the students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So and I think that, you said was absolutely true, that they, that there are some students who will find ways. But, overall, it's been a success.

[15814-181] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Peterson.
TEXT> I like the no foreign policy and I understand the use of the pouches, and I think I would like to see at some point, and I know it's probably a large undertaking. As we talk about how we have to educate kids more and more on things that appear to be outside of the school, you know, the school responsibility is teaching the kids some self-control of not using their phones right now. They're not using their phones because they can't. So once they hit the real world and they're at their job, and I see people at my work walking that, you know, walking around with their cell phone out all the time. I think when we talk about the role the school takes in teaching kids, we also need to look at some point of teaching, you know, kids restraint. My phone's gone off five times from my pocket tonight.  I, I didn't check my phone because not because it's not in the pouch, but because I'm at a meeting and I'm here at the meeting. So I think, you know, moving forward, at some point, we really need to look at,  holding the kids accountable for not using their phones. Having and I know it's a big undertaking, but having teachers enforce a universal rule of no cell phones,  and somehow taking that step to doing that without pouches.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. I mean, you bring up a good point, and it's something that we spoke about right from the beginning. We spoke as a faculty, and we said at some

[15814-186] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair calls on him by name twic | 2024-06-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: should have shut the thing off and look how much money this is. Closter. And I think people don't realize that this can go with you for a long time. Yeah. It's like tonight I just shut it off completely. I don't even want to.
TEXT> The reason we initially started looking at this with all  the school safety that was going on, that goes on the world in regards to you know, you know we initially looked at a lot most of the  when they were intruders in schools majority. The time they found out they knew where to find where people were based on the cell phones going off and the pinging and stuff. That's what kind of initiated this was looking at from a school safety standpoint, you know. But I think, you know, it's so we took we took care of that. But also we got more out of it. You walk into a cafeteria cafeteria. Now kids are talking. It's great. You know, you're in the hallways. They're talking. They're they're not, face down and and texting and stuff. So, I like I said, but I was very proud of the students and the faculty and staff the way that.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: You know, it was one time my husband and I went to a couple of years ago, and it was two parents with three teenagers, and I think one of

[15814-187] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member; outgoing CHAIR of the Capital Improveme | 2024-06-20
PREV> Chris Pratt: Now kids are talking. It's great. You know, you're in the hallways. They're talking. They're they're not, face down and and texting and stuff. So, I like I said, but I was very proud of the students and the faculty and staff the way that.
TEXT> You know, it was  one time my husband and I went to a couple of years ago, and it was two parents with three teenagers, and I think one of them was already in adult, and they were taking the kids out.  And after they placed their order, everybody, all the kids took their their phones out and they were doing whatever. And mom and dad was just sitting there like this, and I still can't get it out of my head all these years. It's still. Resonates with me how  how it's hurting them.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I just to the point about bringing them back. Many of us had the benefit of growing up without cell phones, and our brains develop pathways and learn to handle

[15814-188] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - the chair announces at | 2024-06-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: the kids took their their phones out and they were doing whatever. And mom and dad was just sitting there like this, and I still can't get it out of my head all these years. It's still. Resonates with me how how it's hurting them.
TEXT> I just to the point about bringing them back. Many of us had the benefit of growing up without cell phones, and our brains develop pathways and learn to handle those situations. A lot of these kids haven't, and so they need to learn a new pathway through their brain. Just like if you had to learn how to brush your teeth left handed. If you haven't ever tried it, try it sometime. It's very difficult. But it takes time and you have to practice  over and over and over again, like learning to do anything until you develop a quick pathway through your brain and you learn how to manage the ringing or the beeping or those kinds of things. So I think we can get there, but it's going to it's going to take a little longer than.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's definitely a phase two. Yes. That's it.

[15814-195] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2024-06-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: detrimental effects on mental health and adolescence and kids, babies going like this with their finger with in the air and there's nothing. There that's terrifying. That's the that's the pathway that they burned. Number five is financial update. Miss Mary Henry, our business administrator.
TEXT> Okay, quickly. As of May. 31st. You had. 870. Thousand and $35 in surplus. That doesn't. Include. Any additional surplus that you would have had in your, in your revenues yet. Haven't got that totally tallied. But I know I talked to you guys that you've had gotten some extra money in there,  so that would be higher. Since then, since everything's been run, it's come down a little bit. But I also know I have one point, I think 3 million right now that's still encumbered for out of district placement, which I'm going through those purchase orders with Ben and Jen to  figure out just how much is going to come off of those. Because I think there is some money there that's going to come back to the bottom line. And even if I just said 200,000, that's still  a considerable amount of it. Just based on a few I did today based on the kids that are out, you know, multiplying it by two more bills, which it wouldn't be a full two bills for June. But. That's what I used. I'm getting close to that number. So, I'm confident that we're going to probably have close to a million by the time everything is said and done. That will be on our bottom line. But again, it we're not done yet, but all the payrolls are done, so that's good. So everything's encumbered is released now.
NEXT> Mary Henry: So that's all finished. So the only other things out here is I have 1.84 million that's encumbered roughly in the budget right now. And now it's time to whittle

[15814-288] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board - five short fragments interleaved  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Fourth grade. Some areas of red. Some areas of green. Areas where they're excelling. Areas of weakness. And now we can look at these by classroom and begin to address each of these writing strands or these writing, focus areas to target them for improvement.
TEXT> So one of the I just want to point out my own experience with this. We we looked at writing at the high school.  We found that we had Mike Landau, who was an English teacher there at the time, took the lead on this,  and he analyzed  a number of writing samples from our kids. And we found that there could be exceptional  examples of writing. Yes, there were only three paragraphs long and not so great examples of writing that were four paragraphs. They got a substantially higher score. Right. So we are we looking at the actual.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: There's a.

[15814-303] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board - five short fragments interleaved  | 2024-06-20
PREV> Mike Koski: Yes. Yeah. We have identified that issue and have it fixed.
TEXT> Remember literally hurting kids writing kids down to make sure. So kneecap.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It is my understanding, though, that if a child doesn't take it at a certain level, it's recorded as a zero. Yes against us.

[15947-7] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: as written. We'll now open the floor to non-agenda items for citizen comments per policy DEDH. Is there anyone present motion to speak this evening? The citizens comments. Seeing none, we're going to move on to our first order of business, which is superintendents report.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. It's good to see everybody again. I'm just going to give you a brief overview of the superintendents report that I sent you. In regards to this, a lot of some data in there. Yeah. Education, but also for so we welcome everyone to new School year just to know that our focus,  this year is on a handsome instruction, practices and building strong family relationships. This year we are dedicated to in our kind of motto. This year is meeting minds and shaping lives, one student at a time. We encourage open communication and consistent attendance to support, you know, our students. And we talk to that a little bit about in my letter that went out to families is, some of that was discussing the importance of being involved with the schools and attendance, because that's going to issue over the years. So we're really trying to to work on that, with the community. So some of the key highlights from the superintendents report.  One is academic achievement.  As you know, we're still seeing the aftermath from the, the pandemic and the challenges and students performance in math and Ela is improving thanks to targeted inventions in the summer program.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And technology continues to play a crucial role in supporting personalized learning. Professional development. Our educators have undergone extensive training, including introduction to MeeGo. It's an AI frameworks that we'll

[15947-8] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: some of the key highlights from the superintendents report. One is academic achievement. As you know, we're still seeing the aftermath from the, the pandemic and the challenges and students performance in math and Ela is improving thanks to targeted inventions in the summer program.
TEXT> And technology continues to play a crucial role in supporting personalized learning. Professional development. Our educators have undergone extensive training, including introduction to MeeGo. It's an AI frameworks that we'll be using this year for grades five through 12, and community engagement. We want to continue to strengthen our relationships with families, and that remains a priority for us. Just talking about to get families more involved in the schools, in the child's education. Some of the focus areas that we're we're looking at this year is instructional excellence. We are committed to providing exceptional education through refined instructional practices. And that's really we right away, even when we got into, started with the new teacher orientation the other day. And then,  the meetings that we had today were really focus focusing on, instructional excellence in actually what good instructional practices are and how can we do introduce new instructional practices in the classroom to make teachers better at what they're doing to support the students in the wide range of learners, as you'll see in the report, you know, five or fours are going up there, going up across the nation. And, you know, in that report, I did a, ten year study, really?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: 504 is just to remind us is.

[15947-57] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member - the chair calls on her by name in the  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Right, right.
TEXT> And for those students who don't succeed with the accommodations then a formal evaluation process might be initiated.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes.

[15947-81] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Policy subcommittee. CHAIR | 2024-08-21
PREV> Chris Pratt: really looking at instructional practices. We have so many different types of learnings. We have to do a better job of meeting them where they are, and not just assuming that they have to adjust to the teacher. We should be adjusting to them, right?
TEXT> Are there services in the community like through TLC or Turning Points Network? I know they do a lot of other things, but I have learned that their portfolio of services a lot more robust than I previously knew. So I'm wondering if there are services to help families with, to help families help their children manage their symptoms. Really. That's really what it is like manage their symptoms when it comes to stuff like that. Because I get the whole classroom management thing and helping students succeed in all of that. But,  there are for, for certain like conditions, there are like ways that you can learn how to manage it. And I'm wondering if these kids are getting the support and the help to be like, hey, when you're feeling a little distracted, you might be able to put your energy into this little thing and get back to your goal. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Mike Koski: So one of the it's not the elementary school, but we've targeted the middle school this year for that training where we're we've had a team of teachers from the

[15947-93] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you. Thanks. Very. Oh,  off of Frank and,  Whitney, what they were saying, I grabbed to hear my ears perked up when I hear, you know, students on a 504 plan to be able to go take a walk.  That to me, sounds like it could be something that's catchy that I hear. That body is going to plan to go take a walk, so I need a plan to go check the lock. So hopefully. Right. So. So I hope we are doing these sorts of training, some coping skills, not just giving the kids crutches for the rest of their life. We need to be training these kids on coping skills and how they got, because if head is working at her job, she can't go take a walk in the middle of a surgery. You know Frank well. Frank retired. You can go take a while. I can't, you know. So teaching these kids these types of coping skills and how do I within themselves, I think is going to be very beneficial, one for the rest of their lives rather than just give them crutches? Yeah.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's it's it's more about teaching them how to manage it. Yeah. For long term and not just accommodate it.

[15947-99] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Whitney Skillen: and in your workspace. Like the work, the work, the professional work environment is definitely moving in the direction of being more accommodating to the needs for the success of a team, for the success of the goal, for the success of the profit right.
TEXT> And everything we're doing. It's like if we're trying to really teach the kid the soft skills they need to be successful. For some of them, this is a major part of that. And so it's but you're right, you know, we have seen it. Oh, you know, I need to go to the bathroom. Some of these kids, they'll try to take advantage of it, but they're reeled back in. And Lisa at the high school and the teachers say, look here you're abusing, you know, yes, you have to. And if it gets to a point and say, they always say, I think it's time to go to the nurse. And because it's because of that, it teaches a very good. It's just you feel that, you know, the work that Michael did with the the team we had that we need to train a bunch of teachers and have them train their peers. So we're all on the same page in regards to post high school life.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Arlene, just.

[15947-112] Tina McCusker | SPECIAL EDUCATOR AND CASE MANAGER, Bluff Elementary School - presentin | 2024-08-21
PREV> Tina McCusker: also their social emotional well-being, to give them motivation, self-esteem, coping skills for the things that are going on in their lives. The program emphasizes developing competence and confidence. Many things that our young women need connection, character, motivation, ways to contribute and give back.
TEXT> It was founded in 1996 by Molly Baker.  So why did I ask to do this? Well, bluff, as you probably know, is a very poor school support in the district. We have 45% of our students who live at or below the poverty level.  Many of the kids on my caseload, I had a very large caseload last year. And I won't share the numbers because you'd probably be very upset.  But come from shelters. So literally they come out of a shelter they might not be in from yesterday at noon, and they're coming to school to eat breakfast with us. So they're very there. Poor, 33% are on an IEP. So the special educator is the great folks that are in this room, all of you. You're part of that team of bringing those kids up,  and teaching them how to give back when you are poor, many things are given to you.  You don't learn how to give back. You'll often come to school with no dreams. If you don't know where your head's going to land, you don't know where your next meal is going to come from.
NEXT> Tina McCusker: How will you hope to become a doctor one day? So this is just a little tiny piece that we can use to give these girls some sort of motivation.

[15947-117] Tina McCusker | SPECIAL EDUCATOR AND CASE MANAGER, Bluff Elementary School - presentin | 2024-08-21
PREV> Candace Crawford: Just like I, I, I am familiar with this program. Lots of relatives who are in programs in other districts, and it's an amazing program. And I know in the state of New Hampshire, it's a wonderful program.
TEXT> It is very well run. It does come with a curriculum.  So there is a lesson. And,  I had spoken with our guidance counselor who's now taken on another role, but she had planned to do that curriculum during a lunch bunch. So most likely I will tap some other teachers on the shoulder to help me do the lunch bunch and do that curriculum piece during that time. The after school piece is two afternoons a week for up to 45 minutes,  so they're physically active for 90 minutes a week. And that's another thing. When you're on a carb rich diet, you are either really skinny or really plump. So, you know, these kids need different avenues where they can say, look, to be healthy, I need to do x, y, z to when I'm angry because I live in a shelter and I have head lice, and I'm coming to school and I have any instance, noon yesterday. I can develop coping skills by running, by becoming physically active. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes. Candy.

[15947-133] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member (returned to the board as a write-in in  | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Arlene. Seconds. Motion. Mike, do you have a question?
TEXT> Just question. Maybe more for administration about the student program at another school. You know, bluff is one of three many schools in the district. And I'm not against, you know, 1500. But if it's bluff, you know, these numbers can start piling up. So just wondering, is there anything else in plan for other schools, which would be nice?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I haven't been approached by any other schools, but I'm sure if it's successful. Me, I mean, I would see that probably Maple.

[15947-243] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: Oh, the full time director.
TEXT> They're both they're both full time. And you know, our person will predominantly be here to go over there to learn programs and the setting there so we can come up with a future plan to continue to build both programs and create the pathways needed for all of our students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So they have an assistant. Excuse me. I'm sorry. Go ahead.

[15947-472] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 / Claremont School District. The chai | 2024-08-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> I just want to apologize. It really wasn't my intention to cause the lost that ensued. It was just that I needed to make a good decision. With school a week away, in the guise of what I thought was going to be best for the students. It was never my intention to you that you are you on or anything like that. So I just wanted to say I apologize for for any of this. I just wanted to.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: You are not. You were put in a tough spot and your intention was to have that voted on and not having to see it. That's not your fault. And

[15994-21] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Candace Crawford: one, am happy to see us approve of it. I think we should. And, but I guess all the I'm hoping that the questions and conflicts that had arisen over the past couple of years that had prevented us from adopting it have been resolved.
TEXT> Yeah, I went through it. I mean, being new around the table, there's nothing it just good practice. Yeah, it's nothing in there that, you know, should limit on what we do. Right? It's just it forces us to, you know, it doesn't force us, but we should be working more collaboratively together with some of P and Newport anyways, because it's about the kids. I don't see anything in here that limits us to do that. I think we just have to have a keep that open line of communication. Because you have Newport, they're going through a lot, you know, a building project, and they're trying to improve their programs. We're going to continue to improve out here. It's not about competing. It's about how we can,  collaborate with each other to, you know, offer students what they need.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And I see that, you know, again, that we have to have at least one joint meeting a year. And I think it's important to get that on the calendar.

[15994-40] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (started ear | 2024-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Don't we bring their kids back?
TEXT> If we bring their kids back, we're picking up our kids, aren't we? I'd have to look at the route.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. The way the route is, it's like it's, circular. If they're coming here, we're sending someone there so we never have to make a run specifically just to bring

[15994-141] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-09-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr. Crawford.
TEXT> I, I think that having Michelle be the career counselor is is good because I think she does have the background. My concern is having her be the career counselor and the assistant. All wrapped up into one job.  I think that career counselor, it's it is  working with the students and and doing,  career counseling. Obviously, it's also working with the businesses in the community and making sure there are  alliances between the tech center and the business community to make sure that that's a strong relationship, that we are training our students for those jobs that are out there that that they need staff for. And, and our students need jobs. So that's a strong relationship. And I think I think Michelle, from her background, I think she could do it.  It's the administrative piece that is of concern. The second thing is, I did think that there was a to having Eric involved because, he has done a good job growing the program in Newport, and he has he has lots of contacts and he has familiarity with the building, you know, getting a building plan over there, which we're going to be doing here. So I think there's benefit to having him involved and being the director of of two campuses. However, I understand that that that can only work if he has a full time assistant over in Newport and one here.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: He doesn't have it. Right. This is the whole option.

[15994-144] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITIONS straight into  | 2024-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: it is too much. And, but I feel okay with it because I think if we go with you sort of being in the background or being the assistant that she's going to do a lot of those functions anyway with considering her background is.
TEXT> So. Yeah, I mean, you're right. I mean, as you know, it's kind of like a, as a, as a superintendent here, you know, in this district, I find that I work very closely with all the principals anyways. And I think, you know, I have the benefit of knowing Michelle for eight years and her capabilities and knowing all the stuff she's already done already. She's already met. I think with most of the kids one on one, she's already had field trips out into the community and stuff. So she's doing both right now. I think it's just a matter of having someone else, you know, behind the curtains, working on the, you know, the, the bigger stuff. So deadlines. So, you know, right. Keep an eye on those things there. And having the main point of contact, you know, be, you know, someone in the district on record as the director. So we're getting those those communications and stuff. I mean whether, you know, we decide to whatever we decide whether I'm going to be just as involved with or without the title, over here, because that's just part of my job is superintendent is being involved and helping make decisions, and whether it's grant spending, whether it's hiring, whether it's  policy and stuff, it's kind of a you're doing it anyways.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And with Michelle, like I said, I'm lucky. I've known her for for many years and I've, I've given her a lot of things over the years when I was

[16011-24] Arlene Hawkins | CHAIR, SAU 6 Joint Board (re-elected 4/11/2024) and chair of the SAU 6 | 2024-09-12
PREV> Unidentified: Seeing your meeting.
TEXT> We're certainly seeing how you're moving this district forward. And we're looking forward to continuing to growth under your leadership. And we're working on a strategic plan, receiving student achievement data boards and detailed reports about RCU. So we thank you for all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of that. Thank you.

[16011-295] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Mr. Pratt.
TEXT> You know, for me, superintendent, doesn't matter if you're Unity or Claremont, you know, we're going to support both schools. I think in any case, whether it's a unity exploratory committee or a Claremont exploratory committee, that's all they are, is exploratory committee. And I think there's too many moving parts right now. I think for any side to say, this is how we're going to do business moving forward. From my standpoint in my office, we're going to continue to to move forward and provide what's needed, whether you're Claremont or Unity, because that's what the kids need. But I think at this point, just have everyone just settle down. I can see where miscommunication may have happened, but I just want to say it's both sides have exploratory committees and that's all they can be. And nothing should be drawn on the sand or written in the sand or  a  line drawn. We don't know what the future is going to hold for Unity or Claremont. But you know, from our standpoint right now, from my office perspective, not speaking on behalf of the board is that for us, it doesn't matter. Right now, Unity and Claremont, no one.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And that's the direction we're going to move as a superintendents office. But I think each side has a right to do their committees. And each side can disagree and

[16011-297] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: could never expect it in this collateral damage there. But it's not intentional on any pot. There are things sometimes that, we miss beginning, but there's also things we missed for Claremont. But none of it's in intentional. We're trying to rebuild a school district.
TEXT> So I think it's we're all caught in this, in this  arena of trying to make decisions and trying to figure things out before we even know certainties. And we've got a lot of messes to clean up. And I think right now I know I'm frustrated with a lot of stuff we have to clean up, but I don't want to throw have anyone throw the towel in because I think when things are going right, I've seen in a short time we work well together and it's just a matter of talking it through. So, you know, I'm pushing forward in regards to whatever, you know, we need for the kids and support staff and everything. You know, I think we're all looking at that no matter what exploratory committee you're on. So thank you for letting me speak.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And I just do want to say that the discussion around this really was, is utter transparency. So there was an option that that Claremont was completely opposed to, which

[16011-346] Chris Pratt | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 (appointment formally announced at th | 2024-09-12
PREV> Chris Pratt: how well they work together. We do have our bumps in the road. We have our bumps in the road, but for the most part, and we have these difficult discussions all the time, whether it's principals, the superintendent or an office to superintendent. But.
TEXT> Too often, I mean, we go through these bumps all the time, and it's just a matter of working through it and say, we're going to do what's best for the kids. And sometimes it goes south like this. But I don't think it's ever an intentional, I mean, with you guys a short time, but I know when things are going right was spot on. But I think when things are going wrong, we get to still stay focused on,  you know, what's best for the kids no matter you know what the numbers show, it don't show. We're doing this for the kids and that's what's going to lead our discussion. I'm not saying it's not, but I'm saying making these decisions like you guys are making, having these conversation happens in my day like five times a day. And it's just trying to only way to put it in perspective. The saying it's about the kids, what are we going to do for the kids? We might not agree with each other, but if we're doing what's best for the kids, then I think it kills us in regards to as adults. So, you know, I, I appreciate the conversation.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: They are difficult conversations and it's unfortunate sometimes we have to have them, but not having having them and even do more damage by not doing that. And I appreciate,

[16021-5] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (Stevens High School principal through 1/11/2024 | 2024-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: none, we will, take a vote on. Approving those. All those in favor, I, I posed. No. We're fine. Okay. Citizens. Comments. I don't see any citizens, so we'll close citizens comments. Student representatives. So we'll go to the superintendent's report. Great. Good evening everyone.
TEXT> So this month's superintendent report provides a comprehensive overview of the district's current initiatives, achievements, and ongoing challenges across schools and departments within six. The report highlights the district's commitment to improving student outcomes through strategic initiatives that focus on academic achievement, technology integration, community engagement, and resource allocation. Special attention is given to addressing the diverse needs of students, including those requiring special education services and English language learners. Efforts to strengthen instructional practices through professional development and curriculum alignment are also emphasized, demonstrating the district's focus to maintain high educational standards. Additionally, the report covers key operational improvements such as facilities maintenance, technology upgrades, transportation efficiencies, and reflecting the district's dedication to providing a safe and conducive learning environment. The report also underlines the importance of community involvement and parent engagement, and enhances student success, as seen through increased efforts to involve parents in decision making process.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for the superintendent.

[16021-71] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, SAU 6 (started early July 2023). The chair han | 2024-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: up as far as, actually through the New Hampshire Department of Revenue Administration sets our deadlines that we have to meet. And so it has to be a an intentional process to get through it all. Okay. Moving on. Finance report. You're on, Mrs. Henry.
TEXT> Okay. Okay. Rough estimate of the district fund balance. I'm going to make this brief because I know the finance committee is going to talk a little bit, too. But as of right now, the report I sent you had $544,145.29 in surplus. There has been a change to this report, and the change has been the encumbrance has gone down to 65,000. And that's because of the roof POA being rolled into the new year and paid for the roofs. That was the big part of that. $648,000 was the roofs. So now it's down to 65,000. I need to go through those POS and see what is still relevant and what isn't. I've done some of them, just not all of them. Again, this can move a little bit, but not a lot. But I would expect at your next meeting that we need to vote on a number on how much we might want to retain.  Going into in this year so that I can put that on our Doe 25 or the miss 25 for the tax rate settings. The other thing I wanted to let you know is we do have a revenue.  Revenue. Well, I don't call it a surplus, but we received more revenue this year, roughly 205,000. That came from a special ed line that for anybody at 22, because they increase from 21 to 22, that we had to take care of the students till that age.
NEXT> Mary Henry: And anybody that had that there's only 15 schools got additional monies. So we were one of those that got 210,000. And again, this revenue number could change when I

[16021-157] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, PRESIDING in the absence of Chair  | 2024-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> But we also learned that, the bulk of the. Absenteeism is about it's not 100% of our kids. It's about 30% of our kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's the same kids.

[16021-190] Candace Crawford | BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2024); Finance Sub | 2024-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh, okay.
TEXT> Okay.  So I am absolutely delighted to report that the,  visioning committee of Bonnie Miles and Mike patron and I met yesterday with the new, director, actor director at the tech center,  Michelle Harrington. And she's been on the job for 17 days, and I. I think I speak for all three of us. We were blown out of the water with the amount of work that she has done and  what she has organized and created. Having been a thorn in the side of the administration for three years regarding the tech center. I am absolutely delighted to see this, this,  progress.  One of the things she shared with us was that in the 17 days, which they were weekend days in there, just to remind you,  that she has interviewed 150 students that are 150 students at the Tech Center, plus 13 or 15 I can't remember, from Newport. And she's interviewed them all. She's taken pictures and she has a bio of each kid, and she has created a video showing what the kid. I'm sure. I'm sorry. That isn't very professional, but you know what I mean. The kid, the students. Thank you. The student,  what the student is, is taking for,  at the tech center.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, what their, pre recs were, if you will. What courses did they take in preparation for enrolling in the tech center programs? And this video is on a loop

[16021-191] Candace Crawford | BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2024); Finance Sub | 2024-09-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: each kid, and she has created a video showing what the kid. I'm sure. I'm sorry. That isn't very professional, but you know what I mean. The kid, the students. Thank you. The student, what the student is, is taking for, at the tech center.
TEXT> And,  what their,  pre recs were, if you will. What courses did they take in preparation for enrolling in the tech center programs? And this video is on a loop that is airing in the lobby of the Tech Center as well as the library at Stevens High School. And so all the students at Stevens High School can say, hey, I know Joe. Oh, this is what he did, how he is at the tech center and what he has done that was for me, that was a really big accomplishment. The second thing,  she had a whole series of dates of,  engagements with the general public  to have them at the tech center.  She is  in has the expectations that each  area of of interest will have its advisory committee. The and all the advisory committees are going to be meeting as a group in October to work together to see each other and what they're doing and what they're expected.  The, the students. That's already been a field trip,  for, for the  some of the students at to the,  ambulance.  And there are other field trips scheduled, for example,  the culinary arts are going to Will orchards to see the apple picking, apple processing, apple pie making cider making that whole thing. I, for one, a big advocate of field trips. So I was delighted to see that,
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Student of the month.

[16046-7] Dale Girard | MAYOR OF CLAREMONT - speaks first for the City Council ('We would like | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: tech center. There's been a lot of activity. Just a few words, because we know this is critical to the economic development of Claremont. And so we think it's important for the council to know kind of what's going on to you. Mr.. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening. We would like to thank the  school board for hosting this, for hosting the Claremont City Council this evening. It's a pleasure to be together. For what marks the first joint meeting between our two bodies in several years. This evening, we're not just coming together as elected officials, but as partners in building a stronger community. Over the past few months, city management  and Superintendent Pratt and department leaders have dedicated time and effort to identify areas where the city and schools can collaborate more closely. Their leadership and shared vision have laid the groundwork for partnership that benefits every resident of Claremont. Tonight, we look forward to hearing how these initial conversations can translate into concrete steps that make the best use of our resources, improve services, and enhance overall quality of life for our community. By working together, we can address shared challenges, create new opportunities, and ultimately set a higher standard for what collaboration looks like between our city and our schools. This is a great opportunity to build a stronger foundation for our future. When the sports, our students, our families and all call Claremont home. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And thank you. And first, I want to thank everybody in this room for taking even more time out of your busy lives to attend this meeting. I also want

[16046-28] Yoshi Manale | CITY MANAGER, City of Claremont - the chair hands the first agenda ite | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Go ahead.
TEXT> All right. Thank you. Thank you. Well, good evening.  Esteemed members of the Claremont City Council. Superintendent Pratt and the Claremont School Board representatives.  Thank you for being here. Thank you for having us tonight to discuss our ongoing partnerships and shared goals. I'd like to begin by reviewing a foundational principle in the Claremont City Charter that highlights the importance of cooperation between the city and the school district. Our charter outlines the mutual responsibility that the city government and the school district share in ensuring the well-being of our residents, particularly our students. It is collaboration and resource sharing, policy alignment and delivery of service to support city operations and the educational environment. This joint commitment is key to promoting a unified approach to solving community issues and improving the quality of life for all. With that charter mandate is our guide. I am pleased to provide an update on several areas where our collaboration has begun recently. Police Chief Walmart, Fire Chief Chamberlin and Superintendent Pratt met to discuss potential changes to student parking. The goal is to reduce parking on Broad Street, which will improve traffic flow, enhance the safety of our students and residents by relocating student parking to the staff parking lot directly outside the high school and the staff parking to summer or other street parking.
NEXT> Yoshi Manale: We believe this change will be both necessary and beneficial, and we will continue working together to find the best solutions to meet the needs of our students and the

[16046-29] Yoshi Manale | CITY MANAGER, City of Claremont - the chair hands the first agenda ite | 2024-09-30
PREV> Yoshi Manale: goal is to reduce parking on Broad Street, which will improve traffic flow, enhance the safety of our students and residents by relocating student parking to the staff parking lot directly outside the high school and the staff parking to summer or other street parking.
TEXT> We believe this change will be both necessary and beneficial, and we will continue working together to find the best solutions to meet the needs of our students and the community alike. In addition, Fire Chief Chamberlin has established a new collaborative partnership with Michelle Harrington, who recently succeeded Alex Herzog at the Tech Center. They are discussing launching a student ride along program as part of an initiative to help with fire  department recruitment. By engaging with our local schools to reignite interest in firefighting careers. They also discussed a long term vision for establishing an actual class taught by our firefighters at the tech Center. I'm not sure if a mayor has. Maybe we can have that connection as well on the emails, because I know that it used to have that so that it'd be good to maybe do them collaborative. Like.
NEXT> Dale Girard: I think Chief Chamberlin was actually one of the last classes we did as a collaboration.

[16046-45] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Feel the pain.
TEXT> Don't know. I'm new here in Claremont in this role. I share that I had have taught here for six years previously, three years at Stephens, three years at bluff. So I, I understand or understood the challenges of Claremont  coming back to work here  this July and then another job that I have,  between my work in Claremont and my my other job, I really see the issues of hunger and poverty. And parents who oftentimes have to choose between hitting a home or buying groceries, helping people who struggle to make ends meet every day. And those are some very real challenges in this city. I taught for three years at bluff, and quite often I would have students who would go home at the end of the day and know that they would not have another meal until they came back to school the next day. If it weren't for the different programs that would send kids home with backpacks of food on a Friday, a lot of these kids wouldn't have eaten, for the weekend, you know? So there's there's there are some really good things happening, but maybe some more things we we can do.  And, you know, I was amazed. I, I knew that Claremont had some struggles, but I never saw it more clearly until I realized that some of my students, you know, third, fourth, fifth grade have lived their entire life in temporary shelters.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: You know, that's stuff we'd hear about somewhere else, but it really came full circle working at bluff and seeing it. I just want to share some direct correlations that

[16046-46] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: can do. And, you know, I was amazed. I, I knew that Claremont had some struggles, but I never saw it more clearly until I realized that some of my students, you know, third, fourth, fifth grade have lived their entire life in temporary shelters.
TEXT> You know, that's stuff we'd hear about somewhere else, but it really came full circle working at bluff and seeing it. I just want to share some direct correlations that poverty,  can play in the life of many of our students that we deal with. And my hope is that, you know, you can hear me and that it helps bring some understanding to what our students and what this community faces every day. So poverty significantly impacts the academic outcomes of special ed students and honestly, all students, because not every student who's living in poverty is a special ed student. But there are at least five issues that it really affects. First, cognitive and emotional challenges. Students from low income families often face chronic stress. Which can affect brain development, particularly in the areas of memory and emotion. And this can lead to cognitive lags and emotional difficulties, making it harder for them to perform academically. They they struggle with limited resources.  Our schools and many times struggle with that. Schools and low income areas may elect the necessary resources that support special education students effectively. I know that when I was at bluff, we were using materials that were probably 20 or 30 years old,  very outdated when when you live in a digital age and the kids are inundated with, you know, the newest and the best.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Everywhere you look and but you're bringing out materials that are weathered. They're old, old, tired for them to relate to it at times. Health and nutrition. We see this

[16046-47] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: students effectively. I know that when I was at bluff, we were using materials that were probably 20 or 30 years old, very outdated when when you live in a digital age and the kids are inundated with, you know, the newest and the best.
TEXT> Everywhere you look and but you're bringing out materials that are weathered. They're old, old, tired for them to relate to it at times.  Health and nutrition. We see this all the time. Poor health and adequate nutrition.  Are very common in low income families.  And it can affect a child's ability to concentrate or learn. Sitting in classrooms and hear some student stomach rumbling. And you're wondering why they're not paying attention to what's going on, why they're not attending to their studies. It's awfully hard to learn when you're hungry.  When? When that's all that's on your mind.  We find a parental involvement in low income families often wanes off, and it's harder to get parents to the table to take part in their children's education. And then one of the things we're seeing really very clearly here in Claremont is social and behavioral issues. Poverty can lead to social and behavioral issues such as acting out or disengagement.  And these behaviors become more and more pronounced with our special education students. So there are some things we can do to help mitigate the impact of poverty.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: For our special ed students and all students at that one is providing comprehensive supports and services. First is health and nutrition programs. Ensure that every student has access to

[16046-48] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: and behavioral issues. Poverty can lead to social and behavioral issues such as acting out or disengagement. And these behaviors become more and more pronounced with our special education students. So there are some things we can do to help mitigate the impact of poverty.
TEXT> For our special ed students and all students at that one is providing comprehensive supports and services. First is health and nutrition programs.  Ensure that every student has access to healthy meals and health care services programs like a free and reduced lunch program and school based mental health clinics can address basic needs that our students face every day  offering mental health support. And some of this we've struggled with since Covid, you know, some of those old relationships have gone to the wayside, but more work and tired and reestablishing some of them. I don't think Claremont has had a mental health crisis counselor in district, and Patrick and I were talking about it in a. While. Several years.  We interviewed someone today, so hopefully we can we can reel them in and bring them into the fold to really help some of our most struggling students deal with the stress and the emotional impacts they're dealing with every day. Enhancing educational resources, making sure all of our students have access to technology. Making sure that we've got the best of specialized instructional materials that are tailored to the educational needs of all of our students.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Fostering strong community partnerships. That's what we're doing tonight, right? We're we're really trying to build a community partnership. It's very encouraging to see. I lived in a small town

[16046-49] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: and the emotional impacts they're dealing with every day. Enhancing educational resources, making sure all of our students have access to technology. Making sure that we've got the best of specialized instructional materials that are tailored to the educational needs of all of our students.
TEXT> Fostering strong community partnerships. That's what we're doing tonight, right? We're we're really trying to build a community partnership.  It's very encouraging to see. I lived in a small town as a board of Selectmen member for a long time, and I hated it when we got together with this school because they had a huge budget. You know, costs are always spiraling. I get it, it's it's a struggle. But we got to work together and figure out. Answer is,  making sure. Professional development. Nice to hear about the collaboration with HR. You know, trying to make sure you've got good professional development, making sure  that we're training all of our teachers on the impact of poverty and and educational needs for our struggling students, and then creating an inclusive school environment. So that there's equity for all students. You know, and I know special education is sometimes, you know, you look at the budget. A lot of money goes into special education.  I think Superintendent Pratt talked about the unpaid for mandates, the federal government in the state. State government tell us there's a lot of things we have to do there.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: Non-negotiable. But they don't always pay for them. And we're left trying to figure out how to do that. So, you know, things like our related service, speech and language,

[16046-50] Mike McCosker | DIRECTOR OF STUDENT SERVICES, Claremont School District (effective 7/1 | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: you know, you look at the budget. A lot of money goes into special education. I think Superintendent Pratt talked about the unpaid for mandates, the federal government in the state. State government tell us there's a lot of things we have to do there.
TEXT> Non-negotiable. But they don't always pay for them. And we're left trying to figure out how to do that. So, you know, things like our related service,  speech and language, occupational therapy, physical therapy, mental health therapists, specialized instruction from special ed teachers.  You know, there's a lot that we have to do to meet the needs of of all of our kids. And I  had another sheet on my computer. If we got the print but might have bored you with it. You know, I'm passionate for this community. I'm passionate for the students I've had in this community. I've still got some contacts with some who've long since graduated, and you're living life, and they look back at the time that they had at Stevens and some of the people who played a role in their life. And, you know, I left for three years, but I wanted to come back. I couldn't wait to come back. And so. Here I am.
NEXT> Unidentified: Expensive? Yeah.

[16046-58] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: stop bringing students back? You know, what does that look like for Claremont? Because you figure for spending $4 million, even if we get, you know, three students back anywhere between, you know, without transportation, you're looking at 75, $80,000 just to get them there.
TEXT> And then it goes up from there. You could be paying much as 100, over $100,000 for one student if it's not a district placement. So we're really trying to reel that in and find ways that we can facilitate. We'll probably never get all the students back, but what the ones we can get back trying to create our own alternative kind of setting for out of district placement that we can use for Claremont to bring some of our students back, but also open it up as a cost saving for surrounding districts who are paying the high costs instead of them paying $100,000. If we have our own program here, maybe they can pay 50 to $60,000. So it's a revenue for us, but it's also a cost saving for other districts, you know? But that's one of those things that doesn't happen overnight. But we're spending a lot of time trying to figure out how we can make that happen here for a collaborative that other districts can pay into, because that's money that is coming out of taxpayers pockets. And we're not we're not ignoring it. But I think in full disclosure, there's a lot of money tied up within our budget. Like it's it's only second to employee benefits and salaries. So, you know, we're really trying to focus on that.  Because like we said before, it's all coming out of the same pocket. It doesn't matter where we're spending it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I mean, taxpayers, a taxpayer. So, you know, special ed funding is, you know, it's it's not unusual to have a district, you know, be, you know, in the top

[16046-62] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. And Assistant Superintendent. Got some slides to show. Okay. You can begin with this little slice of okay. So yes.
TEXT> So I just want to give you some sense of  the work that's happening now and the improvements that are being made to instruction right now. Just understanding where we're at in terms of that demolition and reconstruction process,  I think it's important to understand that frequent turnover at the essay for a number of years has created a lack of clear instructional priorities for teachers, so instruction hasn't been aligned to the New Hampshire standards for a college and career readiness, which dictate what students should learn at each grade level. Instruction K-12 can be thought of as a relay race. You need to make sure if you want to win the race that everybody is on the same track. Everybody is able to efficiently pass the baton on to the next runner and that everybody knows what the goal is in this district. Our students are the batons, and it is not clear that everybody has been on the same track. It's evident to me that we haven't even been in the same stadium. So I think we're really working on getting everybody on the same track right now. I can tell you that right now.   We have instructional materials for both English language arts and mathematics for the elementary level that are aligned to the standards. This is the first time this is happening.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Claremont, I am so excited to be a part of this work. I want to highlight the fact that we are working with a non profit publisher, Great Minds. They

[16046-63] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: on getting everybody on the same track right now. I can tell you that right now. We have instructional materials for both English language arts and mathematics for the elementary level that are aligned to the standards. This is the first time this is happening.
TEXT> Claremont, I am so excited to be a part of this work. I want to highlight the fact that we are working with a non profit publisher, Great Minds. They put out both our Ela program and our math program. That's huge because they are not focused on profit. If I call it Pearson and I tell them that I want textbooks, their their main interest is how much can they sell me and how much can they get me to spend. If I'm dealing with a nonprofit, their concern is what do we need in order to help our kids reach their potential? So it's a very, very different partnership. And again, I'm really excited to be part of that work. As we continue to, to work on this, We're also really focused on how do we use data and where do we get data. So we're using a variety of assessment tools both for reading and mathematics, so that data can help us understand what instructional decisions we can make in order to help improve learning outcomes. Ideally, if we know what every kid needs, we can begin addressing that.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: So again, that's another piece that's in in progress. I want you to understand that if our students, we have many students, as Mike McCosker has pointed out, who are

[16046-64] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: we're using a variety of assessment tools both for reading and mathematics, so that data can help us understand what instructional decisions we can make in order to help improve learning outcomes. Ideally, if we know what every kid needs, we can begin addressing that.
TEXT> So again, that's another piece that's in in progress.  I want you to understand that if our students, we have many students, as Mike McCosker has pointed out, who are starting off in homes that are in poverty, if those kids are starting kindergarten, it's not uncommon for them to be starting at about,  the intellectual level of a 33 year old or a four year old. So in order for those kids to make gains, we need to have high quality instructional programs and a lot of professional development for our teachers, because if those kids make one year's worth of growth, that's great, but they're still behind the eight ball. So the goal is to help them make more than a year's worth of growth, ideally 1.1 and a 12:45 and a half years worth of growth. So that way we can begin closing the achievement gap. What I would love to see is every kid starting at the middle school level, on grade level, it's a goal, it's in progress. But that's where I want to be. That's what would attract new residents to the city and really support the economic growth of the community.  Change can happen all at once.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: One of the things that our teachers are dealing with right now, that the new Ela materials for English language arts, that's a heavy lift there in year 2 or

[16046-66] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: skillful at actually using them. So that takes a little bit of time and a little bit of practice for early signs of improvement. This year, I'm going to be looking at third grade. I want to begin seeing a little bump in the scores.
TEXT> Ideally  other grades. We should also begin seeing small incremental improvements as the kids in k one two start moving up over the next few years, we should see increase NH scores at the elementary level. And as those kids move up, we should see those can continue to increase because now we're running the same race and we're all on the same track. So that's what I'm looking for.  And my goal  I would love to see us meet and ideally exceed the state average on the NHS assessments.  Given the level of poverty that we have, if that's our target, I think we would be doing a really good job ensuring that all of our kids have an educational experience that provides them  with opportunities for success. And ultimately, I think that's what we all want for our kids.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I just have some early reading data. In 2122 we were still using. Oh thank you. We were. Off target, so to speak, with our learning materials. So here we're

[16046-69] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 - presents the K-4 spring reading-leve | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: Now the next step is to make sure it's consistent as much as we can through all the grade levels. We're definitely seeing growth. It's just not the rate that the state wants to see it. But kids are improving in the past two years.
TEXT> And and the reason for showing these early grades is this is where our focus has been. We're starting at the early grades, building the reading level base of our students. So as they progress through the system,  to go into the upper grades and just try to start there or at middle school, it requires a lot of specialists. Those teachers are content specialists, and we'd have to hire reading specialists. Our elementary school teachers are reading teachers, and so we can more quickly implement changes and get the students to move from that way. Any any questions?
NEXT> Unidentified City Councilor: Yes. I just have one quick question. I'm just I'm assuming that the 2223 and 2324 each line is the same. So the top line in the first one is

[16046-71] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 - presents the K-4 spring reading-leve | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: the green. But I'm also seeing, in grade. Yes. One. You're seeing some red increases in there as well. So you talk about growth in the green area. But I'm also seeing some based on your numbers that Pearson growth in the area as well.
TEXT> Can you. Yes a little bit about that. So it we always get our highest scores in kindergarten. It's the easiest place to make growth as as things become more difficult becomes more challenging for students. And and so we we are shifting our students from right to left overall. But we do end up with still some. Each year becomes exceedingly not exceeded  continually more difficult. So so yeah, there may be some drop off.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: One of one of the other things that I would point out is that there's a lot of, students we have occasionally have students leave the district and then students

[16046-72] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike Koski: becomes more challenging for students. And and so we we are shifting our students from right to left overall. But we do end up with still some. Each year becomes exceedingly not exceeded continually more difficult. So so yeah, there may be some drop off.
TEXT> One of one of the other things that I would point out is that there's a lot of, students we have occasionally have students leave the district and then students come in. So we don't have control over. What those students coming in have in terms of their learning gaps. I would say that  the one thing that we do have control over is the kids that start off in kindergarten and stay with us. If we make sure that those kids are growing, then we know that we're vertically aligned. So there will be some variation in the data, especially if we get kids coming in from other communities. So that needs to be taken into account as well.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah.

[16046-79] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. Yeah. And I think relatively just one jump in. And so relatively, you know, in this district a lot of this is very new, you know, really  identifying the professional development that teachers need so we can continue to move forward. But we're also seeing is that, you know, we're we're seeing over the last 2 or 3 years, we are retaining more teachers. I think when I got here in 21, I think we had about a turnover rate of. 41, 41 teachers this year. We, you know, we had the high of 41 teachers. And so, you know, in all the fields when you do that, have to do that every year, it backs you up because now you have to retrain and get them all qualified. So we are up to think we this year we hired 2323 teachers. So making that difference in that difference is going to help us to not have to retrain and go back and spiral back every year to train a good portion of the staff. So we are retaining more teachers. But also when you look at the test scores, one of the other red things I've seen and  in Claremont is that as the kids get up to the higher level and they don't, you know, like the expectations that we're requiring for them now, you know, at the high school level, you see, is that the parents will pull out saying, I'm going to homeschool  my homeschool
NEXT> Chris Pratt: for a few years or a year, and all of a sudden we want them back. So now we're also dealing with that as we're really trying to create a

[16046-80] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: the kids get up to the higher level and they don't, you know, like the expectations that we're requiring for them now, you know, at the high school level, you see, is that the parents will pull out saying, I'm going to homeschool my homeschool
TEXT> for a few years or a year, and all of a sudden we want them back. So now we're also dealing with that as we're really trying to create a structure of accountability in the higher grades. And they're, you know, when they don't like it, they'll pull them out, they'll homeschool, it's not working out. And then they come back. So those kids are behind now too. So that might be some of the the red areas to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just I want to jump in. One thing is I want everybody to know that our teachers are now, at market rate. We are we are where we should be

[16046-81] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: the higher grades. And they're, you know, when they don't like it, they'll pull them out, they'll homeschool, it's not working out. And then they come back. So those kids are behind now too. So that might be some of the the red areas to.
TEXT> Just I want to jump in. One thing is I want everybody to know that our teachers are now,  at market rate. We are we are where we should be as far as our salaries and our benefits. We are pulling teachers now from Newport,  Kearsarge. So teachers from other districts are coming here because our compensation and benefits package is very competitive. And I think in part that has  impacted our turnover, which is fantastic for our students. So just publicly, we thank the taxpayers for supporting,  the board initiative to get our teachers up at  a market rate, or we can attract the folks that we need  to do the job that needs to be done. So thank you.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: Question to answer that question as well. Their core cards are critical because they provide that structure. Teachers have to fill out the report cards. It's a legal document. I

[16046-85] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: for that to really skew some of this. In your opinion, these challenges are the challenges that we face. Is it stabilized, is it getting worse? Is it getting better, and is it a critical variable in assessing the improvements to the program and students?
TEXT> So I think it's definitely something to be aware of.  We know that there's there's no question that poverty has an impact on a child's learning. However, we also know that there are strategies that we can also use to help engage kids. And if we engage kids and progress academically, and we support their social emotional growth that supports, their academics, and it creates a buffer, right? Poverty is devastating. But when we use strategies like engaging students in academic conversations. So if I back up, kids growing up in poverty often grow up in homes where there are very short, stunted sentences, do this. Don't do that. Okay, get ready for bed. Eat your dinner. Where as middle class and upper class homes, they engage children in conversation. Where would you like to go today? Do you want to go to the park? Do you want to go to the library? So the level of conversation is completely different. One of the things that we're focused on, you can see this in some of the posters behind you that's left over from a professional development session that we did.
NEXT> Kat McLaughlin: We I provided training for teachers on how to engage kids in conversation. For example, if we have a Stem, a poster that says I agree or disagree because then

[16046-86] Kat McLaughlin | DIRECTOR OF CURRICULUM AND INSTRUCTION, SAU 6 - chair's introduction ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: you want to go to the library? So the level of conversation is completely different. One of the things that we're focused on, you can see this in some of the posters behind you that's left over from a professional development session that we did.
TEXT> We I provided training for teachers on how to engage kids in conversation. For example, if we have a Stem, a poster that says I agree or disagree because then the children can learn how to fill in that blank and we're teaching them that their ideas matter. We're teaching them how to engage in conversation with their peers and how to disagree appropriately. So we are embedding or focus on, increasing the level of academic rigor through conversation first, and that can be across the content. So  talking with children about what they're reading, talking with them about how they solve them,  a math program and how did you think about that,  and then also using that to support their social development. That's those are all things that a school can do if we focus on that. So I'm really trying to focus on what are the most essential factors that we need to focus on in order to get our kids to move forward and  provide our kids in poverty with a buffer, because these things help protect kids. It's good and right for kids.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I think it's it's worthy of saying is that it's just in the last five years is that schools have changed so much. Were at one point we were

[16046-87] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Kat McLaughlin: to focus on what are the most essential factors that we need to focus on in order to get our kids to move forward and provide our kids in poverty with a buffer, because these things help protect kids. It's good and right for kids.
TEXT> And I think it's it's worthy of saying is that it's just in the last five years  is that schools have changed so much. Were at one point we were just charged with coming in, doing your English and math and your science and your social studies. But the way it is now is that in some areas in Claremont is not unique to this, is that now we're doing what private schools used to do. We're trying to educate the whole child. Before, if they wanted that, your parents would pay to send their student to a private school. Now we're looking okay before we get a lot of these kids, before we even get them to level of learning, we're going to make sure that they're in a place in a state that they can learn. Like I say, if they're coming in, being hungry, if they're coming in with a with a bad home life or whatever the circumstances are, is that we get a as a school now we have to make sure that they're in that state to learn before we can even present them with the the materials that we're talking about. Now, that's a huge shift because like we talked about earlier, with that shift comes, you know, the cost of it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You know, we're not just we're just not providing them education. They're academics like we used to. Public schools have become we got to take care of the whole child.

[16046-90] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: lower level education and helping that, but I haven't heard much about those that already exceed those standards. And they're being taught at that same level from my understanding. So what are we doing for those that are a little bit more above the schedule?
TEXT> I can I can talk a little bit on move forward. But it seems that, you know, at the we're doing a lot more what's called benchmarking students in regards to at one point when, you know, most of us were in school, you get your tests at the beginning of the year and you get one at the end of the year. Anything that happens in between if you're struggle and you're struggling. But now the way the, curriculum in our systems are set up, we benchmark the students. It could be once a week, it could be twice a week. So we're getting live data in regards to is the instructional practices working. So we can dive into you know this kid's excelling. He needs more challenging stuff.  And I can speak like for the high school, for instance, you know, is that we use the Excel which every kid takes their test. And so we know we're meeting them, meeting their individual needs. The teachers can move forward what they need to teach, but we're assessing these kids on a weekly basis so they can take a look and say, okay, this kid's struggling at this level.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We can't push forward until they meet these here. So we're really trying to, at least in Claremont, based on individualized and learning styles. I know at the high school,

[16046-91] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: And so we know we're meeting them, meeting their individual needs. The teachers can move forward what they need to teach, but we're assessing these kids on a weekly basis so they can take a look and say, okay, this kid's struggling at this level.
TEXT> We can't push forward until they meet these here. So we're really trying to, at least in Claremont, based on individualized and learning styles. I know at the high school, you know, we wanted to provide opportunities for the kids who were excelling. So we went from, I think 4 to 6, do enrollment classes through River Valley Community College. I think we're up to 14 now. And that meaning they can get college credit for taking a class, whether it's on site or going to River Valley Community College. You know, we and we also offer a lot of online stuff, too, for kids who want to excel. But we're trying to expand on those opportunities, not just at the early levels. Well, it's more about finding out where they are. So they're going so challenging them so they don't get bored with school. So we're trying to work at at both ends here. But you know, the when you when we're talking about, you know in the public eye people focus on you know, the test scores and you know that's what you're seeing here. So we're really trying to work at both ends and providing opportunities for the kids who are struggling and the kids who are selling, but also the kids in the middle.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The only way we can do that is continue to move forward with assessments that we're we're looking at them periodically, not just waiting. Oh, beginning of the year data

[16046-92] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: on you know, the test scores and you know that's what you're seeing here. So we're really trying to work at both ends and providing opportunities for the kids who are struggling and the kids who are selling, but also the kids in the middle.
TEXT> The only way we can do that is continue to move forward with assessments that we're we're looking at them periodically, not just waiting. Oh, beginning of the year data versus end of the year data. So you know that's where we're trying to that's what we've been trying to work on is meeting the kids all the kids where they are. And that's a lot of the conversation that's gone into the strategic planning that we're doing is how do we meet not just kids, both ends, but all the kids. And it comes down to individualized learning for each kid. I think that's where we are right now is, is navigating that and figure out the best way to do it. For the students in Claremont that we have right now, we have to revisit it, you know, 4 or 5 years down the road as as kids continue to move through the different schools. But right now, that's one of the main objectives of a strategic plan, not just to help us that we're spending money. It's going to be built around the strategic plan, but it's also if we're educating students, we want to make sure that the way we're doing it has to be fluid, but we're just not taking data twice a year.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's ongoing data points, so we know what we're doing is working because with that cost, cost money. If if we keep doing good after bad, we want to make

[16046-106] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: It was okay.
TEXT> RSA 193. See, this statute outlines the establishment of educational standards in New Hampshire. It emphasizes the importance of adopting clear and measurable standards for student learning, which I believe our administrative staff and our teachers are all on that path. To do that again in the school board, we're looking for the support of the community and from the school board to be able to do this, to move the educational system. In Claremont, RSA 18611 is the RSA discusses the duties of the New Hampshire Department of Education, including the responsibilities to develop and implement educational standards that promote student achievement and readiness for post-secondary education careers. RSA 1891. The statute posts on the basic educational standards that schools must adhere to, ensuring that all students receive a quality education aligned with state expectations. Do you want me to try to get into it? So I'm on, I. Think. Screen three one go. One more. There we go.  Okay. Curriculum development. The RSA guides the development of curricula that meets the established state standards, ensuring the educational materials and teaching practices align with the learning goals set forth by the state. I know I'm kind of reading this word for word assessment and accountability. The RSA is also relate to the assessment of student performance and accountability measures in place to ensure the schools are meeting the established standards, updates and revisions.
NEXT> Mary Henry: The laws may periodically update, which will reflected changes in educational needs, trends and practices, ensuring that standards remain relevant and effective, which I think we have gone through a

[16046-107] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: forth by the state. I know I'm kind of reading this word for word assessment and accountability. The RSA is also relate to the assessment of student performance and accountability measures in place to ensure the schools are meeting the established standards, updates and revisions.
TEXT> The laws may periodically update, which will reflected changes in educational needs, trends and practices, ensuring that standards remain relevant and effective, which I think we have gone through a major overhaul.  Again, I think the state needs to do a little bit more, but that's my opinion.  State standards for special ed. These are the ones that really hit us hard. Concerning special education, primary falls under 186. See, here are the key aspects to that related for special education. The purpose establishes the framework for providing special education services to eligible students with disabilities. It ensures that these students receive the necessary to support, to  access a free and appropriate public education, or they call it Fate.  Eligibility. The statute also outlines the criteria to determining that eligibility for those students individualized education programs again i.e., mandates and the development of individual  IEPs for students identified as needing special education services. Again, this is all out of our hands and what we have to do.  But we have a team that does that. And Mike McCosker could speak more about that than I could.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And this is when we get into, you know, the high costs that we see that drives the school budget is the special education cost, because at any point, you

[16046-110] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Microphone at the podium.
TEXT> At the podium. You're not at the podium okay. So next, parental involvement. The statute emphasizes the importance of involving parents and special education process, which we do through the I. We have our parents are involved in this now. Free and appropriate public education. RSA 186 C ensures that all eligible students with disabilities receive Fate, which includes special education related services designed to meet their individual needs. Now,  I want to talk a little bit about this, because if you're in a private school, you don't have to take special ed kids, right? If you're in a private school and you're in our district or you're in a,  a charter school within your district, this school has to provide services on our dime, not  on the charter schools dime. So we still have to take care of our kids that are in other schools within our district and to provide those services, even though we don't get special ed for those special education, we don't get any revenues from that through adequacy aid. So just want to make people aware. Of that. Yes.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: So and we've got two schools in district one charter school, one private school. The other thing on faith that's important to mention is it's free, appropriate public education at

[16046-115] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: That's correct. So like I said, and we just don't get any money for that.
TEXT> And so if a child another piece I'm sorry if I was you this is what I would want to know. So if you if we have a child that the parents pay for their kids to go to a private school, the state of New Hampshire gives us, I think, roughly $4,000 per student. That was in our system, in our buildings. So we don't get that money at the district level, but we have to provide all the services to that child out of our school budget.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Usually a lot more than four grand.

[16046-120] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mike McCosker: To 21 to. 22. Oh, sorry. No.
TEXT> Sure. Okay. 21 to 22, I apologize. 21 to 22. Oh, gosh, I know, scared myself there. So now we have to pay for those students.  Till the age of 22. We did receive one year  a grant that came through to help offset some of that money, which was about $200,000 that we received in this district.  Inadequacy aid. But again, that was only a one time deal, from what I understand. If it may have changed, maybe there's another year, but I think there's only one year on that. One year.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think it's the only one.

[16046-144] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: Slowly going to lose money.
TEXT> Slowly going to lose money over ten years.  Kind of like they were doing with the stabilization grant, which wasn't exactly working out because a lot of the towns like Claremont and another district that I was working with at the time, it was really hurting them because they did not have the funds within their town to offset that. So they looked at major cuts, and you get to a point where you can only cut so much and there's nothing left. And if you're trying to grow your community, you need a school. And that's what usually brings in the families to be here.  But I just wanted to let you know that as far as adequacy goes, please contact your representatives. I can't stress that more.  It's it's so important for our students and for our communities like Claremont that really rely heavily on adequacy aid. The next thing is our estimated revenues.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Next slide Vanna.

[16046-157] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And you know, again, I know the school board is looking very diligently into this going into fiscal year 26 budget.  You know, they've given us some directives on where they want us to go. And I know as an administrative team, we are looking very closely at things. I know when I did fiscal year 25 budget, I looked at what we had at the time, and in fiscal year 25 budget, we had to do away with Esser. So we eliminated a lot of positions through there. But we did as a school board, wanted us to do keep some of those people because we felt they were going to help us move the needle, such as coaches such as an extra, Instructional instruction coaches, the extra, the one you just found to hire mental health counselor. We were looking at all those things as key points to try to move us in the right direction for our students. Okay. Next one. So this is just the pie chart  of it showing you, like, the regular instruction and how much it is and how much special it is based on that same thing as what I just talked about, but just in a little bit different way, debt services.
NEXT> Mary Henry: I want to say that we'll be going away and we'll decrease every year. I think I said we had another three years on that before it goes away. So

[16046-176] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - the chair hands the first item to ' | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified City Councilor: that I'm saying cut people. That's not what I'm talking about. I've been talking about using the resources that we have, keeping those people, bringing more people in, but doing the process in such a way that it's even more efficiently saving money, saving costs.
TEXT> It's looking it's looking at working smart enough guides to trying to do everything we can with the resources we have. And I think, you know, and I think the teachers that we have here, there, we have worked in a lot of districts. I mean, the dedication that we see from the district, the, the, the community support, you know, that I feel that the schools have in just in my short time here. I mean, I think that's, that's that's our goal is to do the best we can with what we have. You know, in a city, schools, they don't have that luxury. It doesn't matter. You got to prevail. You know, every student has to learn. And sometimes,  you know, whether it's urban, pro, urban, Local or. Or, you know, suburb, it's it's the same we have to educate these kids and there's no excuse for,  you know what we have, what we don't have. We have to find a way to do it. So that's the first step in meeting.
NEXT> Patrick O'Hearn: Tonight to pay. You back off of Mr. Pratt's point. When I. Listened to you. Talked about process improvement. I think with. A. Strategic plan. We're doing. Something specific. And

[16046-178] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board - presides over the ENTIRE joint meeting | 2024-09-30
PREV> Patrick O'Hearn: then how do we track it. How do we improve it. And then what do we want to look at the end of the year. So I think we're just at the infancy stage of those kind of more nuanced process improvement type of plans.
TEXT> So truly, when I say we were we're starting from. Like foundation. Yeah, we're starting in. The foundation. I think it's in, in some part related to budget cuts in the past. So we've kind of stripped down to bare bones and then all those luxury kind of activities, such as data points and gathering kind of fell to the wayside. And, just I guess I can just. Frank isn't here. So I was he was supposed to speak to the finance subcommittees role, the budget process. And that kind of speaks to your question, is that the charge that. The Finance Committee has. Given to the administrative team, as well as the board is to, of course, provide high quality education to our students, but to look in every nook and cranny for efficiencies, not necessarily cuts, but how can we get more with what we have now and what we need to have without asking our employees to work at 100. Percent.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: With no employee more than 100%, or think we look at like 80%, that can bump up to maybe 8,590% productivity and like peak demand situations. But what we're trying

[16046-185] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: putting those, you know, funds aside, to be able to pay for these things so we don't have to hit the taxpayers with a, you know, $40,000 bus and have, you know, so we're trying to budget that way as well. Yeah. At this moment.
TEXT> Then I want to make a comment and then I'll go to the report.  One of the things that I hear people say, oh, you should treat, you know, run education like a business.  And,  one of the things that when you try and make the correlation between public education and a manufacturing,  if you're a manufacturer, you get to control your raw materials. If if you've got a supplier that is not living up to expectations, your expectations for the raw materials that are coming in, you switch suppliers. You get a better quality, a better deal on your on your raw, raw goods that come into for manufacturing.  Education doesn't have that luxury. We are totally dependent on whatever students come in. We have all the laws that they've gone through. I think the staff has done a great job. The many kinds and the many levels of  requirements that we have to meet, and we have absolutely no control over the raw materials that we use  that come into our schools. We have to educate our students. And that's that's a very big difference from public education. When you try to compare it to manufacturing.
NEXT> Unidentified: I figured out.

[16046-188] Mary Henry | BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR, Claremont School District / SAU 6 - chair's in | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay, you go ahead and then I'll.
TEXT> Get my I'm just going to put one more. Thing out there. Please contact your representatives, please, I beg you. I was at that trial the whole week I testified. And it is so important that you reach out. Education is really in a critical state at the state, in my view, based on how I feel about education, I don't know if everybody else feels that way. We all have our own opinions, but I really see that, and I see it starting to hurt us. And, I believe in having the playing field be level and fair. And right now it isn't. We have all these laws are saying that we have to abide by other places. Do not. So again, like I said, I really, truly believe that we need to look at how we educate our fund adequacy. I know that there may not be an ideal revenue stream for that. I understand that, but we do need to try to find something and be creative about it because it is so important. Education is the foundation for every kid you know. I wish I had thought that when I was in school because I did not, you know, but, it is so important.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So let me talk about the tech center because I'm really excited about that. So that was, one of the things that's why I joined the school board. I guess,

[16046-189] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Mary Henry: try to find something and be creative about it because it is so important. Education is the foundation for every kid you know. I wish I had thought that when I was in school because I did not, you know, but, it is so important.
TEXT> So let me talk about the tech center because I'm really excited about that. So that was, one of the things that's why I joined the school board. I guess,  she's a year ago. My God, so many.  So,  I had. So I try and tell the truth, and that's not true. So,  a couple of years ago, there was a lot of focus on the, the tech center and what was happening with the tech center. And I truly believe that,  this is a tremendous resource. This community has,  and we need to maximize this resource. And I think that Claremont is the perfect community for a, robust,  technical program.  We we  need this program.  And, and so a couple of years ago,  we formed the  visioning Committee. We called it  it was about 25 or 30 people from the community who met pretty much once a month to identify how we could what what steps could we do to improve the tech center, to get numbers up, to get programs expanded? To to so that the community could see the benefit from  training those students?  You might keep in mind that about, 35% of our students don't go on to higher education.  They need. So when you're talking about those students, this is the perfect place. We need to train those students,  while they're part of the public school system.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So the technical, school. We had a couple of years ago, we had five programs. I think we're up to seven programs now. We have a new director who joined

[16046-191] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: and ask them, how how they happen to get involved in tech programs, what their, process was to enroll in tech programs, what kinds of, requirements, what kinds of courses did they have to have before they couldn't role in the two year tech programs?
TEXT> The tech program  provides a two year,  credentialing for for various programs. And she she  recorded those 150 interviewed interviews and placed them regularly at the high school library so that other students at the high school can see, oh, there's Joe. I didn't know he was at the tech center. Oh, that's what he had to do in order to enroll at the tech center. And now, you know, you have a conversation,  that the kids are beginning to see,  the tech program as  a viable,  a career, something to work toward.  Second thing that.  So I thought that was terrific. Second thing that  we, we were excited about is the the partnerships with the community. And again, my experience on economic development, and I think it's all about building relationships with, with  the businesses we have in town, the businesses need employees. And we at the tech center need to train those, those students so that they can go into the job market and be valuable employees. As of September 17th, they already had had a field trip. God, I can't remember. Oh, there was a. It was. Thank you. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. It was to Golden Cross. The students at the tech center went to Golden Cross as as a potential further employer. I know that on Thursday this week,

[16046-192] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: center need to train those, those students so that they can go into the job market and be valuable employees. As of September 17th, they already had had a field trip. God, I can't remember. Oh, there was a. It was. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you.  It was to Golden Cross. The students at the tech center went to Golden Cross as as a potential further employer.  I know that on Thursday this week,  micros is coming to the school here and work with the students about what the opportunities are at micros and how they can be trained here at the tech center. I know, next week.  Nancy Merrill, our economic development  director, is meeting with Michelle to work on working together.  Being able to share information about what are some of the,  pays  pay scales for jobs in the area so that they can market that to our students and say, look, if you do training here at the tech center. This is the kind of pay you can expect to get. In the it's only the 30th of September. Michelle has already met with the staff at the county home because there are many opportunities there. It started when we were  Mike is works at is an employee at the county home. And during our discussion we said, gosh, we see,  great interface with the tech center and the, the county home.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, and Mike was saying, yeah, you know, we're we're building this facility and for the building trades folks, they need to come and see different stages of, that that

[16046-193] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: the county home because there are many opportunities there. It started when we were Mike is works at is an employee at the county home. And during our discussion we said, gosh, we see, great interface with the tech center and the, the county home.
TEXT> And, and Mike was saying, yeah, you know, we're we're building this facility and for the building trades folks, they need to come and see different stages of,  that that growth construction that's happening on. And  I know Derek Ferland, the county administrator, is working with Michelle. And, they have already set up meetings  and had meetings so that the students in our new,  medical tech program,  they're working with getting the  county home. They they can see how some of our students can become their employees and how they can  interface there. Another area between the county home and here is with the dietary program. Our  culinary arts program is working with them to to go out and observe what it's like actually providing food. And so I know that tomorrow night,  here at the tech center, all of the, crafts each each area  of, each area of trade, for example, culinary arts, building trades, plumbing and heating  of engineering,  medical technology. Each one of those areas has its own craft committee. Craft committee means that they are people in the community who are employers or employees of that area of, training. And and they meet with the staff here at the tech center to make sure there's a good interface with what they're learning every day here and looking towards  future employment.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so tomorrow night is a giant meeting of all the craft committees. Michelle, Harrington again is coordinating that. So you've got the members of the community, the employers with

[16046-194] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: people in the community who are employers or employees of that area of, training. And and they meet with the staff here at the tech center to make sure there's a good interface with what they're learning every day here and looking towards future employment.
TEXT> And so tomorrow night is a giant meeting of all the craft committees.  Michelle,  Harrington again is coordinating that. So you've got the members of the community, the employers with the tech center,  teachers  working together to make sure that that we have that that interface working together.  So it's a very exciting time.  And we are lucky to have  our technical director as our superintendent. And, and in the past,  one of the things that we heard repeatedly when we were doing our visioning committee work over the past couple of years is how important, how critical it is for the the superintendent to be an advocate in integrated with the success of your tech program. And indeed, that's what we we have. I am delighted that that that's working in a positive way. And if you haven't met Michelle Harrington, if you see a whirlwind go by, it's probably Michelle that she is amazing. Additionally, we do. We finally yay! We have a career counselor who is full time here at the Tech Center, who works with our tech students to make sure that that  our students are are doing well, integrating with their academics, with the tech program, and that we're building the programs and get getting more students here at the tech center.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Thank you.

[16046-216] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the trades/industrial-arts cou | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: And our aging population.
TEXT> And, and  the plumbers, electricians, the carpenters are such, such demand right now. And this is right. This would help with the housing problem. And and these kids go and they don't have to have a college debt and make lots of money.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And they can have a good life.

[16046-218] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the trades/industrial-arts cou | 2024-09-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: And they can have a good life.
TEXT> It is, it is it's a much better program. And I applaud, you know, the the vision going forward. Because a lot of the things that I was doing, we didn't have the companies coming in and talking to us, taking us out there. And those are the key things that's going to get these kids out there and interested in the program. So thank you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Hopefully it's going to get them stay in the community one way or another. But you can work in the community. And it's like you said, just, you know, if

[16046-224] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Chris Pratt: My brothers are in the trees and they making a lot more than I am.
TEXT> And that's. Why we want the trades.  Representatives for the from the trades to come into the schools and talk to the kids and say, look, this is, you know, you're going to have a nice life. You know, you got to work hard and you got to pay attention. You got to learn. But you could have a very good, very good life.
NEXT> Unidentified: And there are significant shortages in the trades we need. We need people who are well trained.

[16046-232] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member - BONNIE MILES or ARLENE HAWKINS. The di | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: talking about with your constituents, the energy that you see in our district and the positive vision that we have. And I think we have a real chance of moving the needle. And the first time, for the first time in a long, long time.
TEXT> And the quality of leadership that is here now in Claremont is wonderful, coming from different states, to see the quality of our administrative team really makes one optimistic. And we recognize the balance of our responsibility to our students and to our taxpayers, because we're all taxpayers and maintaining that balance. So looking for quality and understanding the need for efficiency. And I'm excited also to be a part.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That as you talk to citizens in the community, I hope you share our enthusiasm and our vision for removing the district forward. And I think that we all, as

[16046-233] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the Capital Improvements / lon | 2024-09-30
PREV> Unidentified: really makes one optimistic. And we recognize the balance of our responsibility to our students and to our taxpayers, because we're all taxpayers and maintaining that balance. So looking for quality and understanding the need for efficiency. And I'm excited also to be a part.
TEXT> That as you talk to citizens in the community, I hope you share  our enthusiasm and our vision for removing the district forward. And I think that we all,  as school board members and as  city councilors, I think we all have to encourage our parents, the parents out there to to read to their kids, to talk to their kids, to have conversations. Kat, the  curriculum director, was talking about how important it is to have discussions with with children, to have them learn about talking and and speech, speech development, reading, reading to the kids, having the kids show up at school have 100% attendance. Those are all things that make such a difference that together we can work  and and the schools will benefit from that cooperative effort.
NEXT> Mary Henry: Yes. Anyway.

[16046-239] Unidentified City Councilor | CLAREMONT CITY COUNCILOR, never named - the chair says 'We haven't hea | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: We haven't heard from you at all.
TEXT> I'll go down. I think this. Was great. It made me feel a lot better. I've been I was on the school board when we did the first Claremont last year. That's how old I am. Not 25. And you look 25, but, you know, not a lot has changed at the state.  They bounce things back and forth.  It depends on who's in office, but I don't know if we'll ever see them, in my opinion. Do what's the responsible thing and create equity in the state for all the kids. So unfortunately that bounces the ball back to us. And it's difficult in Claremont because we all know that that taxpayers struggle. And we just had a reval that that put a lot of the burden  off of the commercial properties amongst the backs of the residents again. So that makes it even tougher. So when we spend money at the city level, we try to do it as efficiently as we can. I've watched many players come and go from the school board and the administration over the years, and I have never seen any, any group that I think will represent this community better than this group here.
NEXT> Unidentified City Councilor: I'm encouraged. I'm happy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You guys want to do. And, you know, it's not easy because there's never any easy answers when it comes

[16046-249] Unidentified | Claremont School Board member - BONNIE MILES or ARLENE HAWKINS. The di | 2024-09-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: That's our vision. So do we.
TEXT> Yep. And we work as very well as a cohesive team. You know, we all come with different perspectives, but we have our children and our taxpayers and people put us in this, in these roles to help Claremont become what it can be.  And we don't lose sight of that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Anything else? Yes. Mr..

[16049-23] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> I'll leave school right now. Good times.  So I have slides.  I shared them with Mr.. And I think Chelsea has them too. Oh, they're in your packet. Yes. Perfect. They're just on my phone, so that's why I'm looking down. This is my. I want to say, third year running summer school. I think at the high school,  this year it went from July 10th to August 8th, from 9 a.m. to noon, Monday through Thursday.  It really went from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., but we were finding that the kids got very squirrely around the 12:00 mark. It's hot. The second floor of the Stevens High School building. And they just they were kind of done, but they can't. And so we changed it to noon, and we saw a very big decrease in behaviors and increasing engagement, which we thought was really good. So we'll be keeping those hours going forward.  It's Monday through Thursday because it's summer. We want kids be able to still enjoy time with their friends and their families and have vacations.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Kids work, so we won't be able to have the flexibility for them for working. July 8th and ninth was set aside for teacher workdays. We have found that teachers

[16049-24] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: decrease in behaviors and increasing engagement, which we thought was really good. So we'll be keeping those hours going forward. It's Monday through Thursday because it's summer. We want kids be able to still enjoy time with their friends and their families and have vacations.
TEXT> Kids work, so we won't be able to have the flexibility for them for working. July 8th and ninth was set aside for teacher workdays. We have found that teachers need those two days to prep for  the summer work.  Because I don't always have finalize the list until school is over. So when they come in for those two workdays, I give them their lists, they make their packets, Google classrooms, whatever they're going to have the kids do for summer work, and then they're ready to roll when the kids come in. We have Chromebooks for the kids to use  in the library. We also use Hilary's computer lab,  and Mr. Silva's computer lab. So we have plenty of technology for the kids to use as well.  We have eight teachers. We had two English,  Sandra and Joseph. Tim Weatherford. Hillary did computers.  Mike Richmond and Rick Johnson did math. And then Ryan Markey and Leslie did science. So we covered English, math, science and digital technology. And then you have me as a coordinator. So we have a pretty strong group.  Very strong. Pretty strong. Very strong.  We were all worked really well together this year, and the kids responded very well to everyone, which was really good to see.  You know, there's a point.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: It was a source of pride for some of the kids, like, oh, I passed, I did it. You know, when the teachers were there to be happy with them

[16049-25] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: me as a coordinator. So we have a pretty strong group. Very strong. Pretty strong. Very strong. We were all worked really well together this year, and the kids responded very well to everyone, which was really good to see. You know, there's a point.
TEXT> It was a source of pride for some of the kids, like, oh, I passed, I did it. You know, when the teachers were there to be happy with them as well.  Students are recommended by their teachers in the appropriate areas throughout the year. Based off they have their credit. So if they have an F in a class, it's teacher recommendation. If a student earns an Re, which is recovery eligible, it's  automatic summer school option for them.  But if they earn an F the teacher to say, you know, you got a ways to go, but I know you had different circumstances come up. So let's give it a shot in summer. And we did have kids who had F's in school. We cover summer school, which was good.  This year, with our new schedule, it's full year classes for a lot of subjects. So I will be doing outreach not so much in March, but more, you know, in June when grades are finalized. My hope is that with the full year long schedule, we will have a better idea of grades earlier.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Possibly. But we'll see. We had 136 students invited to come to summer school to recover a total of 234 credits if my math was right when I was counting

[16049-50] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: I had a couple of questions. Okay. So, first of all, I see that 136 students were invited to. Will you describe the invited process?
TEXT> Sure.  I send emails.  To the parents and the children. Okay.  I send at least three reminder emails.  I will call as well if I feel like maybe the parent doesn't get the emails or something happened. But I that's how I do reach out because I. It's mainly through email.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. And so out of 136, students would have been eligible. How many kids participated?

[16049-65] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> And I'm not. I mean, I use that as an example, but I know there are a ton. You know, there are people. And I'm thinking, gosh, only half of those kids who are eligible participate. I'd really like to get.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: I would say the first, I mean, I think we had I missed the first few days. I was at power school University, but I had others covering for me,

[16049-82] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Thinking about.
TEXT> That, that half the kids flunk algebra one. I mean, so I'm thinking, okay, all of those kids qualify for summer school. Well, most of them. And and so they wouldn't be going to five weeks of summer school. They would just be going until they pass the conference.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Until they show competency. Right.

[16049-87] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: But what happened my week? Five of them, only.
TEXT> One stage for all five weeks. One teacher was not there.  He was. They were only there for the first two weeks because they had a family situation,  which Edmond was well aware of, and there was an additional teacher there who could help. So that was fine. And and the kids knew that as well.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I'm just wondering about the final week when there were only eight students.

[16049-89] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: I'm just wondering about the final week when there were only eight students.
TEXT> Everyone pitches in helps. I mean, you know, if it's a kid who like, again, I'm just going to pick English. Like it's really something in English. You know, when there's a teacher who might not have that many kids left, how can I help? What can I do? Because sometimes it's just a different face, kind of motivates the kids to do what they need to do. So everyone stays busy during the five weeks of summer school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Okay.

[16049-115] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So?
TEXT> So if they had breakfast, would they do even better if there are a lot of these kids were hungry.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: I mean, we again, we have a wide variety of snacks for them to eat. So we have.

[16049-124] Frank Sprague | Vice chair, Claremont School Board; chair of the Finance Committee; NH | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: And they do not graduate. They did not walk. They did not do anything. They come to summer school. They can recover their credit and they'll get their diploma afterwards.
TEXT> It seems like a pretty steep. Penalty. For messing. Up such a small portion. Of your high school career.  I just wonder if there's any way that we look at trying to give these kids a kick in the butt earlier on to get them moving to recover credit before it's lost, you know? So if you're reaching the end of the year, you know, you're you got a mountain. You dug yourself a hole that's really deep. Right. How can we get that kid to come after school to  maybe offer, you know, come after school. Do this, do this, do this so you can make it to walk across that stage.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: We I mean, this is a team in the office area. We we have those meetings about seniors on a regular basis, especially starting in the spring when senioritis hits.

[16049-126] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-02
PREV> Mimi Rhines: have to end up coming. Where they are very aware. We tell them we had our first senior class meeting like the second week of school, and we told we very much laid out for them already. So they are all aware of the requirements.
TEXT> You may have mentioned this and I might have missed it. So thank you again for taking the time. And to clarify, because some of us are really old worries. Experience was different. What percentage of the student numbers decreasing? I understand once they show their competency, they no longer have to come. But did you have a percentage that were just through attrition? They just came and then they left.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: Like who didn't complete summer school?

[16049-131] Mimi Rhines | School counselor, Stevens High School; coordinator of the summer schoo | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: But you continually reaching. Absolutely. Try to draw them back in.
TEXT> Yeah I, I kind of a parent of a kid has to leave early or if a kid is going to be out because of occasion or something, you know, I asked the parents to let me know that so I can let the teachers know so that we know those kids are not just not coming back. They have a reason for not being there. Like I said, we're very well. We have kids who are working during summer school. You know, they need to leave at 11 to get to work. That's fine. You know, they only have so much time to make stuff up, but that's fine. They need to go. That's fine. So we we I try very hard to work with families in summer school. To be as a company as we can be. And we also make sure all the teachers have IEPs and 500 fours. So we're also following all of those guidelines as well during summer school. Thank you. Yeah of course.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any other questions?

[16049-222] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: The visioning committee, we had a great presentation on two exciting new things.
TEXT> New things to add.  So, as you will recall, Monday night we had a joint meeting with the city council, and we talked about lots of good things. And  last night I attended the,  Text Center  open house for parents and students. And  I met the new career counselor, Jennifer. I'm not sure for the last name.  But she was there and  I talked to several of the staff, but the most one of the most one of two exciting things,  the director, Michelle Harrington, said to me, did you have a meeting yesterday with,  Brian Souter? And I said, well, yes, we did. And I gave her the background and she said, well, he called me this morning and he said he learned about what the tech center does, and he is involved with the bike shop, The wheelhouse. And they have a big race coming up October 19th, 20th,  with about 500 bikers coming into town for a two day race. And he wanted to know if the culinary arts program wanted to be the concessionaire for the food. And,  Michelle talked to the culinary arts director, and indeed, that's what they're going to do. And from 12 to 5 on Saturday and 12 to 5 on Sunday, non-school days, the kids and the teacher will be running the concession, and all the money that's generated will go back into the program.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so I think I was delighted to hear that, because I saw that as a benefit, an immediate benefit to having the joint meeting on Monday night. The council

[16049-223] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (Capital Improvement; SRVRTC Visioning s | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: and indeed, that's what they're going to do. And from 12 to 5 on Saturday and 12 to 5 on Sunday, non-school days, the kids and the teacher will be running the concession, and all the money that's generated will go back into the program.
TEXT> And so I think I was delighted to hear that, because I saw that as a benefit, an immediate benefit to having the joint meeting on Monday night. The council was aware of of what was happening. And  and I think that's a great opportunity for our students, and it's a great opportunity for the community to see these students working. Right. The second thing is tomorrow morning at 830, micros is coming to the tech center.  Because of the nature of what micros does and what they manufacture, students can't go there. But micros  people are coming to the tech center to have demonstrations of various  parts of manufacturing,  some of the HR components, some of the manufacturing, some of the analysis of materials. And,  she said that they had 70 students sign up for this demonstration tomorrow from 830 to 1030. She said she contacted micros and said, gosh, we've got a lot more students signed up than originally planned. And they said, that's fine, we'll send more teachers. And so they're sending more presenters. So 70 kids are part of that  program tomorrow. So I was very excited about those two, two components of things.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah, I think we were all invited to the Microsoft.

[16049-243] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member; chair of the SAU 6 board; the board's r | 2024-10-02
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I don't know what you mean by that, Candy.
TEXT> Undertaking this responsibility on behalf of our work. I mean, there's a board meeting that Wednesday evening, though.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That would be fine. I think this would. I need I need for this to have. And I need the evidence of what occurs.

[16049-262] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member; chair of the SAU 6 board; the board's r | 2024-10-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: No.
TEXT> She's coming up here. Okay. Okay. Because I was thinking kind of mentioned this before with Home Depot, but really in that building. Wouldn't that be nice if there was a monitor when you walked into that North Street building? You know, volume off. What? Just a video of the kids. So because these are business people that come in there too.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so I think what you're saying is the video, the video that Miss Harrington has created with the students. Yes. She created that for the purpose of generating interest

[16070-0] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> 
TEXT> 1135. October 16th, 2021 meeting of the Claremont School Board. With all right and yes. Yes. United States of America. And to prepare for which sins one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Miss Kronborg, would you please roll call for attendance? Yes, sir. Here. Here. On. Miles. Here. Here, here. I'm here. First order of business is the consent agenda.  All items on the consent agenda will be approved without discussion. Unless a motion is made to move a specific item to the regular agenda. Is there any wish to move any specific item to the regular agenda? Is there any objection to accepting the minutes of 10 to 24? Seeing no objection. We're going to  approve the all items on the consent agenda. Next item is citizens comments. Seeing no citizens. Other, well, citizens. But, no citizens that are going to comment right now. We'll move forward to the student board member report. We have  two new student members, which we're thrilled to have. Thank you so much for coming. We have Miles Sheehan and Lily Clark, and I don't know if both of you are planning to present or one this evening, but please proceed. Miles? Miles.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: Yeah. So we just have a couple of, you know, things that have been going on around the school that talk to you about, starting with some activities. Stuff that's

[16070-3] Miles Sheehan | STUDENT BOARD MEMBER, Stevens High School - the chair introduces the t | 2024-10-16
PREV> Lily Clark: really well. They won multiple cups and football was actually doing really well to this season. We all thought it was going to be not so great because, there are some really tough schools, but all of our athletics are doing really well this year.
TEXT> Some more cool things that are going around going on around the school. Is our restorative justice program, which is I think it's been around for a while, but it's been kind of kicking into gear a lot more lately.  Mr. Pascucci,  restorative justice coordinator.  What he does is he takes time to unpack  behavioral problems throughout the cause of why the student is acting out. And he'll setting off conversations individually with all parties involved and gather information on what happened there, points of view or their emotions around what happened. And with this information in hand, he brings in his, the student panel, which is, new to the school, I'm pretty sure, and they're highly trained students. And they take the information collected by Mr. P, and then they facilitate, mediate a conversation with  all the parties involved in the what had ever had happened. And from there they were stored addresses. Coordinator Mr. P and student panel. And the students involved put together a document,  that just kind of says has like steps of success for the student, like how they can help themselves to, not act out like that again. And then at the end of the document, they have recommendations to the school and how the student can be held from others, like teachers to school professionals. So that they can, you know, further prevent more from happening.
NEXT> Lily Clark: And upcoming event that we're having at school is a mock election that's called invaded by NP, Mr. Simon. He wants us to learn about voting and, basically how things

[16070-16] Jennifer Gallagher | CITIZEN COMMENTER, Ward 1, Claremont - SELF-IDENTIFICATION: 'Hi, I'm J | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you for spending that stuff to ask. Absolutely. Looks like Mr. and Miss Gallagher may have missed the citizens comments. Can I is there any objection for citizens?
TEXT> Thank you. You were really speedy tonight. I'm really sorry that I missed citizens comments. Hi, I'm Jen Gallagher, Ward one. Great job on your report, guys. Excellent. So I'm happy I didn't miss that.  So I would love to be standing here to tell you about all of the great things that our district is doing. Well, but unfortunately, I'm here to represent some parents that are upset with how a problem was handled at our local elementary school. Sorry. A couple of days ago, there was an incident of fecal smearing in the a girls bathroom at our school, and,  some adults in the building thought that an appropriate response to that was to take all of the girl students because it was a girls bathroom and pulled them from academics or specials and have an assembly with them grades two through five, which I totally understand. Right. Talking presumably about health and safety issues. But,  students were really upset during that  interaction.  One of those students was my child who reported being extremely emotional and crying for several hours. Because she is conflict avoidant and respects authority tremendously and was very upset as a result of this action.  And then, the students were made to line up in the hallway outside of the bathroom in question and single singly, go observe the fecal matter smeared on the wall of the bathroom stall.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: So, admin did respond to my concern that I sent an email about it. I know that other upset parents did also send emails, and they also got a response.

[16070-28] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: Commerce video is that they reach out to us and they're doing one for the city. So they want to know we want to be part of that. And we'll we get, to give us a menu of things that we get out of it.
TEXT> It's kind of like a, a recruitment video that we'll get out of it. And but they were gracious enough to reach out to see if we wanted to be part of their video. And then being part of that, they'll give us our pieces so we can use them moving forward, recruiting for, future students and teachers. So  that's one thing that we've been working together with the, the city with, the big event we had was the joint meeting between Claremont Board and the City Council on September 30th. The school board and the city council held a joint meeting. This gathering was a effort to strengthen ties and mutual understanding. The focus was on educational funding and budgets, which, Mary Henry reviewed with  the City council, give them a better understanding of what school budgets are, what we have control of, what we don't  funded mandates, unfunded mandates, you know, all the stuff that the board deals with on a regular basis and community engagement  was aimed to and that was, I think, even greater part of that meeting. We really wanted to show that, members of the, of the city, that we are really trying to work hard to work with the city of Claymont together, and doing those best for the students in the community, but not not in isolation. We're really trying to improve those efforts. Myself and others have had a number of meetings with the mayor and the city manager.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think they've been going very well. They followed up with the city manager, and we're going to set up monthly meetings, the two of us, just to keep the

[16070-29] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: work with the city of Claymont together, and doing those best for the students in the community, but not not in isolation. We're really trying to improve those efforts. Myself and others have had a number of meetings with the mayor and the city manager.
TEXT> I think they've been going very well. They followed up with the city manager, and we're going to set up monthly meetings, the two of us, just to keep the conversations going, just to establish a better working relationship and just keep each other abreast of what's going on and if they need anything from us. So we need anything from them that we're kind of trying to share resources, whether it's just coming together and talking about things or actual, Community outreach survey. So this here is, with the new Parent Square website that, you know, will slowly launch in out. It's been good because instead of the current website where if people want the information, they have to come to our website now with the new one, we have the opportunity to to push it out. And so we have  pushing out things slowly based on the different  tools we have in there just to see how it's working. And so one of the. And one of the new features in there is that we can give quick, little quick surveys to get the pulse of the community. So I started off with the first question with what qualities do parents value most in their child's education? And the second was how satisfied are parents with the overall quality of their child? Is receiving a C six?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: In my report you can actually see the results. The most recent one, the qualities do parents value most in the child's education? It's it's interesting what what the results

[16070-30] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: get the pulse of the community. So I started off with the first question with what qualities do parents value most in their child's education? And the second was how satisfied are parents with the overall quality of their child? Is receiving a C six?
TEXT> In my report you can actually see the results.  The most recent one, the qualities do parents value most in the child's education? It's it's interesting what what the results were with that. You know I and I think that's the important piece is that we're not just guessing where parents and the community members we want. We should focus our time. We're actually getting participants, participants sharing that. Well, it's in the report you can take you can take a look at that.  So based on, you know, surveys and stuff, you know, I continue to find ways to involve the, the community, whether it's parents or constituents. And so,  a couple of weeks ago,  I announced the creation of a superintendents community outreach committee, which begins with stop beginning work on hopefully,  after the new year. And we'll start off first meeting every other month. And if we need to, we can push it. I didn't want it to be a huge time commitment. I wanted it to be an opportunity  for people who are interested to have time to meet with me based on current things we're trying to do, get their feedback on, you know, anything that we need feedback on as educators of the community.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And so, I put out any parents anyone's interested. So right now I'm up to over 20 people who are interested. Optimal size of the committee. I would like to

[16070-32] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: for the public, that's our working document, that's our map, that's what's going to help us make the decisions, whether it's building our budget around the strategic plan, coming up with PD coming up, you know, it's a transparent way to say to the community.
TEXT> This is what we're doing moving forward over the next five years. See you in regards to education.  So that will be coming out shortly to everybody.  Some of the safety initiatives. We have the security locks at the Sussex office with cameras and buzzers. So if people just can't walk in and, you know, it can be controlled from,  whether it's my assistance desk or the front desk, so people just can't walk in at any point now. And it's something that was concerned me from the very beginning. I feel the SEO office should be just as secure as the schools.  Because we do get, you know, quite a bit of foot traffic. So,  we also have new radios for our schools in the district, funded by the Safe grant to improve communication during emergencies. These changes have got the district's commitment to student safety. And with the. We had a good opportunity to test them yesterday because our internet was down for most of the day as well as the telephones. So we're able to use those radios to communicate back and forth. And if there were any bugs we can, we have time to work those out. So it was a good opportunity for us yesterday, even though, but behind quickly without having internet, it was a, it was a good way for to see how the radios work, but also say how prepared are we if the internet ever did go down?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Well, we had a cyber breach where we had to shut things down. Can we still function? And so it was a good practice for all of us. I know

[16070-38] Mike Koski | ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT, SAU 6 (ASR 'Kosky') - DIRECT ADDRESS: policy | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: So we're like this is your arrow.
TEXT> And 7% of our kids are functioning in fifth grade level. It's like a pretext. It's like a priestess. And so we'll do this test again in the winter and spring test. And just for comparison. So we've never published over the fall. That's it. Yeah it's fine, but last spring, when we were all around the 50% in reading and math across all the trees, so we expect we'll end up that same point or better this spring. But right now we're testing students on what they should know in May but haven't been talking about it. And so you'll you'll notice in the early grades, kindergarten has come in and already read, oh, 74% or whatever. So in the young grades they score really well. As they get older, there's more to take in over the course of the school year and the school board, it does feel a little shocking. It should be a little test for something.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What is that math that.

[16070-58] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: heard some comments, back, I've gotten feedback on the September 30th, meeting with the city council and people, community members watch that. And they thought that you did a good job explaining the various issues. Related to funding. So that was helpful. That was helpful.
TEXT> So, this is for Chris, but he's engaged, so I'm just going to I'll just ask out loud. Anyway, so I was looking at the push out poll, the poll results community poll. And I'm wondering, is that fuel for the, strategic plan for. And I also am curious, like I was just read this, what qualities do you value most in your child's education? And, academic excellence? It was 28%, but character development was 46%.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes.

[16070-75] Chris Pratt | SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS, SAU 6 - CHAIR'S RECOGNITION: 'Next item on  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And I found the student, reflection on the restorative justice, on the scheduling. It really indicates that they're thoughtful young adults who are reflecting and articulating what their environment is. It was very impressive. I thought.
TEXT> Yeah, they were very impressive. And I think, you know, Michael, really agree that that's pretty much the population of the students we get there. That's those are the students we see. So public might be here one thing. But when they're in the building with us, you know, those are the type of, you know, students that, you know, we're we're working with and they shine tonight.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah.

[16070-97] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> Back to school day.  And so he was like, hey, anytime you want to come up, I was like, let's get it started. So we went to the Golden Cross. Then I met with the subcommittee.  Then we went to this New Hampshire construction day. If you're going to look at the slideshow, that's the one you want to look at. We went up to this New Hampshire construction day. Kids got to go in bulldozers and just drive all of this heavy duty equipment. They had challenges where you had to, like, take a backhoe, hook a ring on a cone, drive it around. And the kids, at first they were like, I'm not doing that. And then one of their friends did it and they all were in line to do it. They got to climb, be like a lineman, climb up the harness, climb up on this giant line. And this this was in New Boston? Yep.  And it was there was over 900 students that went to this event, and I think over 200 vendors. So we just went in. You know, we kind of just I got a lot of pan flits.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: A lot of people were like, hey, we'll come to schools. But I let the students kind of talk. And then when they when they were done, I was like,

[16070-106] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: of that facility. And they actually were trying on, like glasses or they had like, headphones on. So it was like they were hard to see, just kind of like what it is like when you were getting older of how to navigate certain things.
TEXT> So the class was kind of like practicing how, you know, how it would be with all this really cool technology. And then do you want me to keep going or is it okay? All right. So then we did,  a student of the month. So what I did was I thought of, you know,  I'm a big sports person, and you see athlete of the week or this, you know, so I'm like, let's do a student of the month in each, in each, you know, CTE class. So the teachers kind of thought of the kid that would be that the student of the month. And then we kind of raised it a little bit more.  So that they get a certificate there on the board when you walk in.  And then they're going to a breakfast that,  two of their family members can come. It can be neighbor, relative, whoever, you know, whoever you want. And then we're hoping if you guys would like to come, you're more than welcome to come. Maybe even present the award, you know, to kind of bring in that community,  involvement. But the board is when you first walk into the tech center,  the building construction class built the board built it.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So the kids are on there has like, and then, a manual machine tooling actually did like 3D printing of each kid's name on it so that they get to

[16070-107] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: like to come, you're more than welcome to come. Maybe even present the award, you know, to kind of bring in that community, involvement. But the board is when you first walk into the tech center, the building construction class built the board built it.
TEXT> So the kids are on there has like, and then,  a manual  machine tooling actually did like 3D printing of each kid's name on it so that they get to take that little name plaque home. So it's kind of just building all of these programs to showcase in the front. And then,  the Claremont Ride Along program, there's we're really kind of seeing if fire safety would be a good CTE program here. So we're kind of just getting our feet wet with the ride along program. And  we met with the chief. It took a few minutes because we had to get this waiver signed and make sure everything's kind of like on the back end. So we got all that set. We met with the student today. He's going to go there November 4th. And kind of we're not sure if he's going to do a full day or half a day, kind of  to just be that first student, to just kind of see what it's like, you know, just to be on the fire department.  And then the workforce development team, we're meeting with them at the end of the month.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: But Tom Rock said he would meet with us before to kind of just have a good, to kind of know what we're doing. And then, culinary wanted me to

[16070-117] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: I have it on my computer.
TEXT> Yep. And then so these are the student of the first student of the month. And, we kind of talked with the teachers of how we were going to present this, you know, do we quietly tell them, how do we do it? You know, to really kind of have that impact. And if you know me, we're going to go big. And so we just kind of went into the class and each teacher kind of wrote, you know, why? Why they're the student of the month. And I just read it. The class was clap. And you would think some of these students like actually all of them one like $1 million. They just were shocked, excited, you know, and we didn't know high school kids. They could be embarrassed. They could not care, you know. But all of them were like me. Like I'm the first one.  And this is Alex down here. And he actually helped make the student of the month board. And the teacher and I were joking because we're like, this is the first student another month and they have no clue.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: But they're kind of taking some pride in in the student of the month board. And then this is what the board looks like. So this is kind of hard

[16070-119] Michelle Herrington | ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: to all the staff members in the whole district. And then just kind of scroll down. And then so this is, you know, just so that the tech center is kind of on the map, they're seeing it, they're going on and then it's there.
TEXT> And then one other thing I don't think I put in there is we met with the middle school in the beginning, and they were going to come over and just kind of see the medical assistant class just because it kind of worked with their health class.  But then we got a new career counselor, and we were like, let's just make this bigger. So she's going to we met with the middle school and we said, like, hey, what can we do to get these kids, you know, to see the tech center? Because when you're looking at the course, you know the course description and you see basic home repair, you have no idea what that is, you know? But when you see, well, I can make a go kart in this class, that's, that's going to get kids excited to kind of be here. And we're going to get the kids that want to be in these classes, in the intro classes. Then they go to the level ones and then they're complete, you know, of the whole of the whole program. And then hold on one second. I just got to go. So a lot of people have said, like, what have you been doing?
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: You know, with the report. So on here is just kind of what I've the report is just kind of like it goes along with my vision very well. So

[16070-122] Candace Crawford | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER (appointed 7/19/2023, re-elected March 2 | 2024-10-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford. And then, Mr..
TEXT> Patrick, you you cannot understand how happy I am. You cannot, but I am  I'm thrilled. And I know the community is to,  I want to say I was lucky enough to come to the open house, and I happened to come in when the student of the month came in with his mother, and he was showing her his name on the board, and the two of them were just beaming and and I was so glad I came in because they could show me their name. You know, the mother was happy and the kid was so happy. Yeah. It was just a really nice moment.  One question I have you talked about,  some field trip that's going to cost $50 per student. Yeah. And and it's limited to the students themselves. Have to come up with a $50.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: No. So we do a lot of fundraising like we're calling like at the say the Arrowhead will raise money or they sell Christmas trees at the you know, in

[16070-146] Arlene Hawkins | CLAREMONT SCHOOL BOARD MEMBER; also CHAIR of the SAU 6 joint board and | 2024-10-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: Well thank you.
TEXT> And it's very much appreciated. I was at the Mike Rose session, and what struck me was the interaction between the students and the people from micros. They understood where kids are at at this point in their life and addressed it. And it was you could see that the kids were the students were,  oh, I get it now. And it was it was an alignment to go. The second point is the question. You mentioned the program advisory committee. Could you just very quickly elaborate on exactly what that is?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Because.

[16070-544] Frank Sprague | VICE CHAIR, Claremont School Board, and CHAIR of the Finance Committee | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: that happens in the district, the, the administration does. And so I don't one of the things I don't want to do is commingle both types of communication into one document. So what I did was I was thinking in terms of what are we?
TEXT> What are we as the board, what are we communicating about? And so we communicate about the budget. We communicate about policy. We communicate about student achievement. We communicate about committee work. We communicate school board goals,  administrative arrangements, which would be like the new schedule at the high schools and administrative arrangement. We'd be communicating on that. Possibly superintendent evaluation would be something we would communicate about, but I don't know what else. Before I go too far into the weeds, what else is there that we communicate that the board communicates to the community about? And so I didn't want to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Take it without knowing where it was going.

[16070-547] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. I just didn't want to get into off into the little rabbit holes without coming to the board and saying, what do you think?
TEXT> I recall that not this retreat, but the year before, one of our school board goals was to acknowledge student recognition or, I don't recall the exact wording, but it was acknowledging student performance, student recognition growth. Having what growth? Student. It's not just student achievement. Academic achievement.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: No. Right.

[16070-550] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: So student recognition.
TEXT> Recognition was one of the goals. And as I was reading through this, the the piece that always comes back to me when I think about communication, we've had reports here from,  members of our educational community about students being voted governor at the in Concord for the student government, days that they were there. There was another instance where another student was recognized for  accolades and they came before the board, which I think is wonderful because I believe as a board, we should recognize those positive things happening in our community. And then at the time we said, well, how do we get the word out that this is happening? And even tonight, hearing the student of the month from the the the tech center, we were invited to possibly go and actually present the student, you know, and I don't I'm not saying that's, but just so the community understands that there are a lot of good things happening, that our students are being recognized and are coming to the board, or we are learning about it. It's televised.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And we've given recognition also to some of our athletic teams and other organizations from time to time that have that have performed well. And so maybe there is a

[16070-631] Heather Whitney | CHAIR, Claremont School Board (re-elected chair 3/20/2024). She calls  | 2024-10-16
PREV> Whitney Skillen: the issue and how this might relieve any, anything that's happening. So, yeah, I agree with Mr. Peterson that I support your decision and that you know what's best. And I also really think that the the school staff deserve a little extra love. So.
TEXT> Is there anyone who would like to speak against this? I think we're unanimously in support of showing our educators and our staff how much they are appreciated. And, what a burden they're caring for for us and the kids. So thank you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Thank you very much. And for the teachers, I think we'll go a long way. We're able to show that we do care about them, and we'll do what we

[16155-7] Unidentified | TWO VOICES IN ONE SEGMENT, not separable - the Director of Human Resou | 2024-11-19
PREV> Mary Henry: Mary Henry, business administrator.
TEXT> Baxter Hearn, director of human resources. Michael.  Yeah, one of my students every year.
NEXT> Chelsea Weatherford: Chelsea Weatherford, executive assistant to the superintendent.

[16155-24] Michelle Herrington | Self-identifies at [002]: 'I'm Michelle Harrington, the assistant dire | 2024-11-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. I just have two conceptual questions. Number one. The med tech, whatever. It's great name. We'll let go to a two year program next year. Yes. And so there will be additional cost to go to that second year of.
TEXT> Yeah. So there's a good thing to because the level ones  when we bought the curriculum it's for the student. So if the student and it's a little expensive for the student because it's a two year curriculum with them. So if I'm in level one, I get the curriculum in level two and I get to take the exam.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so you can already purchase. What I hear you saying is you've already purchased the level two curriculum. Yes. Even though the the program is expanding, many of the

[16155-120] Frank Romeo | Self-identifies at [004] as 'Frank Miller, principal, Claremont Middle | 2024-11-19
PREV> Frank Sprague: So as a teacher, how many kids a day am I seeing?
TEXT> Are you will see over four. You can see 24, 60, 80 kids. Plus you'll have a saw group, which is a sort of a callback  in which you do some small instruction with your kids. And so it'll get those kids back. You'll get a different group each day, but through the course of the day, you're seeing only 40, 60, 80 plus kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Is that an average number or maximum or minimum?

[16155-168] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Okay.
TEXT> So above and beyond  kind of that normal inflation piece that you were talking about. And I think you all are well versed in this. You know that at the elementary level, the number of lines we control is drastically smaller. Yeah. And they're in the form of a supply line of an equipment line or an equipment repair line or DOS and fee, something along that line. So for me,  the biggest addition would be a second,  permanent substitute. In the building. That is a gift. There's no other way to say that, because that guarantees that I'm at least able to cover one classroom. So, for example, today I have three classroom teachers out. That person automatically takes one of them. And then unfortunately, we're at the point where it's paraprofessionals covering. They do an amazing job. That's not the part. The part is that it then takes them away from the kids with whom they should be working.  So we would like to add a second,  position. It's a wonderful position, for example, for a parent.  And  that has been again, just a gift  for us. Above and beyond that, you'll see maybe just the addition of some lines that I've been working with Marion, and it's really cleaning up things that kind of should have their own line that have maybe been in somewhere else.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: This one, however, is new. For example, we are putting in a building PD line and we'll have a couple thousand dollars in it. So for example, if we as

[16155-169] Melissa Lewis | MERGED CLUSTER - Melissa Lewis is the default and CANDACE CRAWFORD is  | 2024-11-19
PREV> Melissa Lewis: just a gift for us. Above and beyond that, you'll see maybe just the addition of some lines that I've been working with Marion, and it's really cleaning up things that kind of should have their own line that have maybe been in somewhere else.
TEXT> This one, however, is new. For example, we are putting in a building PD line and we'll have a couple thousand dollars in it. So for example, if we as a school want to talk about a particular topic, as Frank said sometimes or alluded to, there's just some things that are specific to your school. For example,  Mike, with with the behavior piece. Same thing at the elementary level. And so we just would like a small pocket of funds so that we could focus on something that is outside of the district realm  of where the district is headed with PD aligns to it, of course, but is specific to our school, our kids, our staff. So we'll ask for the addition of that with just a few a couple thousand dollars in there. And then like I said, you'll see some adjustments of just cleaning some up. So, for example, our postage line tends to go in the red because the leasing fees are taken out. And so we'd like to add the leasing fee line and just make postage pure postage. Those that kind of clean up. The other large piece you'd see is in the area of library.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Our media generalist or media specialist at Maple Avenue oversees the two library paraprofessionals at both Disney and Maple, and they have worked together on a proposal to increase the

