[9592-203] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So are you in response to what miss Pierce was saying is, what are the issues within the school district as far as mental health or so? I don't have a good idea.
TEXT> We we  have some very serious challenges  of,  of behavioral issues that are not the result of, of kids being naughty, but responding to different adverse childhood experiences,  that, that they have experienced  and they bring that to the school.  Some of it is, is autistic, some of it deals with issues of that nature, but somebody also deals with adverse childhood experiences, incarceration. We've had a presentation on adverse childhood experiences with the board. And. This this could have a lifelong impact.  I will tell you that we were the recipient a year ago of a  of a multi-tier support system that helps to help provide resources to deal with  a families at risk behavioral issues, mental health issues. However, there were limitations to that. The need is greater. But but clearly though,  the the needs of our children,  in, in the school district  are very important and we have certain resources, but our resources are limited. But what even more troubling is that these needs also impact all other children, let alone the staff. So it's not the child's fault. And that's important. And, and but with with resources that can be limited. We we don't make the kind of progress we would like. I will tell you that we have made quite an investment in different strategies.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: We have, behavioral specialists. We have consultants who provide support and trying to work closely with with the parents. But this is a this is a long term plan. This

[9592-224] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (uncertain - chair: 'Oh, Frank. Were you | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: So housing. So you're going for housing okay. Any
TEXT> One of the things we talked about in the. School board is, We wish you out. A lot of kids for behavior and many other things.  There was talk. And. There's been talk about getting those kids back to Claremont and possibly,  a partnership with the Brattleboro Retreat. So I don't know if that partnership could also be some other mental health, you know, availability to the general public that need it,  but also maybe a partnership with the city to try to find the the location we need,  whether the city could help with the grants that the school can't do to get funding for that facility, that we would need to,  get those. I mean, it's a  it's not about dollars, all about dollars and cents, but that's a big chunk in our budget.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: To.

[9592-226] Charlene Lovett | Mayor of Claremont (presides over the council side; city manager: 'Tha | 2018-01-30
PREV> Mary Woodman: To.
TEXT> Get the kids back from there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Being tuition out to other districts.

[9592-231] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: plans to make it accessible, to make it a school. And then the price just went out of control. Just, just. Just went up off the off to the sky. And so we have Corey LeClaire working with others has gone to several different residences.
TEXT> But what stops us is and it's not the Claremont issue, it's it's the enforcement code enforcement to make a building a school, certain things architecturally need to be in place. And in many cases, it's hundreds of thousands of dollars to be to make it a school, if you will.  So we continue to look for  a, a, a, a accessible building, generally a home  or a facility that can be retrofitted into a school setting for young boys and girls who live in Claremont, who deserve to be educated in Claremont and not transported us elsewhere because we can't meet their needs with our current setting. So I'm very interested in exploring that further. And again, we talk about a partnership.  If there can be a partnership where we can work more collaboratively with, with, with grants or other resources to make that happen, it's going to be a win win for the children, and it's going to be a win win for the taxpayer, because the amount of money we spend on transporting, as well as off site facilities  on an annual basis is, is millions of dollars.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Okay, so has there been an exploration with that? With the partnership with Bradley is a Brattleboro.

[9592-239] Unidentified | Unidentified City Councilor (business owner who uses TripAdvisor cards | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Waiting for it.
TEXT> So from what. I, what I'm hearing is that it should be a focus for the council and the school board to find a facility to put that as one of our major goals, to find a facility, because we're spending all this money in transportation.  And from intuition  and  I mean, from what I've, what I've heard from the public is it's the tax rate that's keeping a lot of people out of this town. And if we can bring these kids back in, it'll lower our school budget, which will go over our tax rate. And I really think that is a major priority.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And also tuition kids into Claremont, that maybe placement.

[9592-242] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (mayor: 'in response to what miss Pierce | 2018-01-30
PREV> Unidentified: Outside revenue to decrease the tax rate.
TEXT> In a beautiful scenario, it would be great if we had a big field that we could build a nice, really great big, big area and be able to offer that so that instead of us sending our kids out, we can bring all these other kids in to help with the revenue in and also and  have mental services there on staff too. I mean, you know, that I think that goes along with, with the the housing. Yes, but also with with the stabilization for the kids, for everybody.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So I thought counselors.

[9592-250] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Alex Herzog: Deb, you appreciate.
TEXT> It, but it is the thing that has to be. I want to emphasize it's not the fault of the children and these these children have specific needs. Some of it is medical, some of it is behavioral. But regardless, they don't choose to be that way. And but we we can't meet their needs on site. And so we are obligated and we will find a facility that can better meet their needs. But if we could bring that back  to us on site,  it would be not only a financial benefit for the community, but it's a better way of having children receive an education that they don't have to travel an hour, an hour one way or half an hour one way  and be off site versus to be educated in their own home.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: So one child, perhaps, that went to keen to a special place in Keene, and the parent or whoever drove them would be a reimbursement. It could be up to

[9592-254] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Scott Pope: Yeah just a question for Middleton. You're talking really day students correct. Not the residential.
TEXT> Oh no I'm not talking residential. We're not talking about children living and spending the night. We're talking about day students, okay. And when we were looking at that. Sure, that's very important because generally when we're talking about residential, that is a very serious need that requires specialized programing.  But it's interesting, when we were exploring that home and it was in the Eagle Times, a big picture of that home, we had local districts contacting us, keeping, helping, reminding them us to keep them in mind. Once this program begins because they have students they think would benefit, so it would be a benefit for them as well as a cash flow for the district slash city.  You thought about the money, but the reality is really about the student. But the benefit is the community benefits.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Sure.

[9592-259] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, Claremont (mayor: 'Yes, Mr. McNutt' [100] and 'Mr. McNut | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Okay. All right.
TEXT> So I just wanted to bring it back to it. Sounds like we all agree that trying to find a solution that would, mitigate us  having or has students having to leave our district if we could find a way to keep a component of those students in the district, it would have a savings to it. It also sounds like retrofitting a structure might only have an outsized one time cost. So we could spend, say, arguably a half $1 million retrofit a structure for these needs. But the savings would be annual, so there would be a return on investment.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's right.

[9592-270] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Why the tech center? Because I know there's specifics around the realities, but why the tech center is not a place where we could do this. I think I've heard that in the community, because people asking so might be a good information to share.
TEXT> I will say to Rebecca's point, our vision for this facility,  we have a major turnover in staffing. Our vision is to make this facility a great draw for the city of Claremont, to have this facility prepare our students for the vocations that continue to but expand it, expand student access.   There are I'm familiar with what I call the Massachusetts model, which is a, a school within a school that students don't have to juggle going from their high school to the tech center and competing with classes, but rather they can they can have their needs met and acquire skills without having to be so mobile and having this competition. So that's one of our visions as to,  do a better job and to expand our opportunities for students  in the workforce. The because not all students  are in the position or will benefit from a post-high school education, whether it be junior college or university. And there are many vocations and positions  that are expanding. And there was a great need for that. I mean, you know, Scott, you could you could spend the evening talking about this.
NEXT> Scott Pope: I'd like to speak to it in a.

[9592-274] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Scott Pope: I'll speak to it in a little bit.
TEXT> Sure. My my point is, That we we look at this facility  as an opportunity for the Claremont School District slash students slash community. And I'm very hopeful that we can expand that. We had a major study three years ago. How well are we preparing with our current programs? How well are we preparing our students for vocations that are in this area or beyond when they graduate from high school,  and we are doing well and have done well? My goal is to expand that and so maximize the use of this facility and to benefit a larger group of young men and young women. So that so I that that's the vision. That's the vision. And, That's where we want to go.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So when you come back with figures for this April 17th, with regard to, a facility where you can have children educated here rather than out of district the day

[9592-296] Scott Pope | Claremont City Councilor (mayor: 'Councilor Pope' [190, 269, 360]; sup | 2018-01-30
PREV> Scott Pope: you start hitting some subcontractors, even people who didn't go into the fields, who are highly successful entrepreneurs, self-employed, have learned some really great skills here. So how do we leverage this to actually start growing our economy and leverage our things at the college?
TEXT> I think that's going to be critical because we can talk about the Zillow effect. We can talk about all the stuff we talked about earlier, but unless we start getting some people to replace the workforce we have now, we're just going to start talking. We're just going to continually talk about a shrinking population that  we're not going to be providing workforce for. And along with that comes high quality. And I'm going to add that high quality workforce housing, some stuff that maybe apartment complex, it's really high quality that young people would want to move into and then start launching from there into our community. So, I mean, we got to start looking at that to that I think is critical. That's going to be what grows our economy and starts to turn some of the wheels that actually help us to start getting the,  tax revenue, the lowering of the tax rate and all the stuff to make all this work. And so I hope I haven't spoke too long and I hope I've made sense.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Comments to what Councilor Pope said.

[9592-298] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (self-describes 'superintendent of schools' [86] | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Comments to what Councilor Pope said.
TEXT> I just have one the Claremont School District and the city of Claremont at a crossroads with this center. And it's what we do in the next very few years is going to have a major impact.  And so we have an opportunity with, the retrofitting we're going to be doing. And hopefully the investment and planning we're going to be doing. To, to make it not only a benefit for the students, but also a draw for the community.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I'm just trying to figure out how I'm going to map this out as our community wide priority, because we've talked about different facets of housing, workforce, housing. It could

[9592-312] Ryan McNutt | City Manager, Claremont (mayor: 'Yes, Mr. McNutt' [100] and 'Mr. McNut | 2018-01-30
PREV> Ryan McNutt: to support them. There is no four year set single school model. Manchester is the only community in New Hampshire that has a four year vocational technical school. That's a separate school, but these have shown vocational technical schools have shown to be incredibly successful.
TEXT> I attended one in Massachusetts. I went to the  Monte Tech, the regional vocational technical school. And I have to say that what I've seen in public schools that don't have vocational technical components and vocational schools, there's a lot more within a vocational school to reach troubled students or students that might be falling behind. Those schools have more leverage over those students, because they also  offer programs that are attractive to those students. We have this tech center. We're looking at how we can utilize it more in our community. We have this opportunity with some  competitive grant money coming out of the Boston Federal Reserve. This could be our systems change is if we advocated for this school and had a model for how it could be successful as a four year, standalone institution, and then advocated  across New Hampshire to create the legislation to make that available. This would be beneficial for Claremont for generations, and it would be beneficial for all of New Hampshire.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So you're saying at this point in time is there's a lack of legislation or we don't have the authority at the local level to do what you're talking about

[9592-321] Abigail Kier | Claremont City Councilor (recognized 'Councilor care' [164, 255] and ' | 2018-01-30
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Well, we'll have to start. So I want to wrap it up because I promised everybody two hours. You guys have a school meeting tomorrow. So I want to be mindful of your time before I wrap it up. Counselor cure.
TEXT> I just want to make. One. Comment about your third priority. I think that's really important. And we haven't got to talk about it. And I think maybe we should talk about it more next time. Yeah, but I do think we need to be more proactive with that. I know it's always difficult. There's a million things on everyone's to do list, and it's hard to be proactive on things. And we're more reactive just instinctually. But, one of the communities that I lived in previously, we had a joined school in city,  event where we had a culture week at the school, which then culminated in an international festival during the weekend. And it was a really great way to share different cultures,  history of cultures, food, etc. that was really great. And they also had a program where and I'm sure you probably do something like this, but where they really explained the background of every holiday we celebrate or holidays that we have days off of school for so that the kids not don't just say like, oh, it's Labor Day, great, I have the day off. They really know why. Where the background of that holiday came from? I think it's really important for us to maybe look at how can we proactively have some kind of a culture week or an international festival to really, you know, celebrate the differences amongst us, but also bring us together?
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: It's amazing idea.

[9602-11] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: We'll have a voice vote. Yes. Those in favor signify by saying aye. The proposed name. We will now have a brief PowerPoint presentation by Superintendent Doctor Middleton, the Goodman and business administrator, Michael O'Neill.
TEXT> Thank you very much. And good evening. The purpose of this PowerPoint is provide you, as I move quickly through this with some specific information about the warrant articles and the making of the budget as well. This deliberative session is for the community to weigh in on the work of the school board and administration. It's an opportunity for the residents to for their voice to be heard and very important that that occur. And it's also very important that you're aware of what this budget is to private of, because the budget is much more than just numbers, as all of you know. Claremont School District is not a small school district. We're living in Lebanon or Mountain. We are a diverse community, and I'm very proud to tell you that we have a great investment in prekindergarten and that really childhood program. What is not listed here is the one for all space, which is one more indication of our effort to address the needs of all the children, specially kindergarten and also no longer relevant since 2006 has declined  of it has remained somewhat stable in the past few years. Again, one of the larger districts in our area. I want to spend just a few minutes about talking about some of the things that school districts and residents who have  had in common, because we do have some challenges that we do have to deal with together. And one of them is real estate taxes.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: 1919 years. Real estate taxes in our state have more than doubled. It's also important that there has been a downshifting of prior state financial obligations to municipalities. Nine years

[9602-14] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: so. They did not want to do the 307 000 collective bargaining agreement with the teachers in the budget. So in order to put it into the budget, we have to withdraw an additional $307,000. So the budget really was reduced more than $2 million.
TEXT> That being said, let's talk about what is being impacted in that place. The $20,000 to prevent letter uniforms, field preparation, police, referees for fuel, woodchips versus wood pellets. The savings then again, better pricing and reduced usage for a $31 million budget. Though that's not a lot of money, but we're still moving carefully to try to meet the expectation of the board and reduce the budget to a certain level  by $25,000 in Super Bowls quickly. That would be deferred. Last year. We also went into the supplies of our school as well. So we've been chipping away at that. Textbooks deferred. Acquisition of books ended in $76,000. Personality is where the money is. Unfortunately  $542,000. The special education physician was reallocated into a special needs brain. That's a reduction from the budget. One teaching position  Disney Elementary School, based on enrollment decline in the loan in that particular grade on middle school. The assistant athletic director is Stevens High School. Several positions two teaching positions English and Social Studies. Assessment port data that the statement our students now will have to travel to another district in order to have their state, such as the state, used to be housed here for professional positions reallocated to a special education grant. Three paraprofessional positions limited again.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Special education position reallocated to a special education grant so the money is withdrawn from the the budget and it is taken care of by grant. At that time that

[9602-17] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: me. But before I do, if you look at the water one article two is not $31 million is $34,600,000. And that is because there are two sums of money for food service and $2.8 million in grants that are added to the operating budget.
TEXT> So our role is open to $34.6 million, but approximately 34, 3.4 million of that is not not attached as far as the tax rate is still intact, but we have to include it in the water. So that's why you're seeing 31 million within $34 million. So the main bite, article two $34.6 million, 35.1 million. Normally in the fall budget is lower. So the kids are committing their choice. If they don't wait to support the budget, they have a default budget that's going to be lower. But for the past few years, have we been reducing and compressing.  Our default budget had been largely that's not. That is how it works when you are reducing your budget security, upgrading school bus replacement and roofing these days, let's talk about security upgrades, plus replacement and security upgrades. We plan, with the approval of article three to establish internal surveillance, security cameras and dollar schools exterior surveillance security cameras in all our schools, electronic system for us pack and classroom door shades. These recommendations came. When we had Homeland Security three years ago, coming to the Claremont School District and gave a recommendation as to what we really need to do to enhance our security. It was all recommendation that was not a mandate. That information was invaluable, and we had a multiyear plan to do that. We had a multiyear plan to upgrade our security in the plan.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And if you notice, each one of our schools interior surveillance cameras, electronic system and shade, every one of our schools accepts even high school, not because of the renovation

[9602-19] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: technology, he was able to take all that data and presented. And in essence, it was a slam dunk. So we saved a half $1 million because we were prepared to do this over several years, but we were ready to move at the moment.
TEXT> Can't tell you how important the statement of security of our children and staff  is, and this will be a very inexpensive way of of addressing that security. Yes, $141,000. You didn't spend that the tax rate would go down if you were 10 or $0.15 per tax. But the price of 10 to 15 seconds. School bus replacement  of a gentleman. You might turn to work to read on a motive. He has talked to me about, you know, you've got to do something about your busses. They're coming in all the time for repairs because our busses are old, $39,000. We will be able to lease two busses and we'll save about 19,000 a year. That's the rationale behind the reason. Unless we're not moving repairs, we have a multiyear plan to replace our roads. Them on middle school is desperate, that portion of that group.  We've also replaced portions of our other routes. You can't just like the man who pay now or pay later with the oil replacement. We can defer our rules, but reaching the point where the deferring is no longer viable, as you have buckets and classrooms  and I'm not being consistent with the we've had buckets in classrooms over the past few years or so for schools when it rains.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So the main budget, $0.47 per 1000 reduction, the budget, if anyone voted for it, did that prevail? Security upgrades. Because we had security in our budget last year, there's

[9602-25] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (moderator asks 'Chairman ... Frank Sprag | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: to elect manage the affairs of district. This is required that advises voters that there will be election on March 13th. The school district for moderator of treasurer and for school board members. Adequate two main budget. The moderator recognizes school board chairman Craig spread.
TEXT> I'm already losing my voice on job if I want school district raising appropriate adjusted operating budget, not including appropriations for special special one articles and other appropriations, etc. the amount set forth on the budget posted with the warrant or as amended by vote of the first session, for the purposes set forth therein, totaling $34,613,257. Should this article be defeated, the default budget shall be $35,111,787, which is the same as last year, with certain adjustments required by the previous action of the school district or by law. Or the governing body may hold one special meeting in accordance with our state 44, 13, ten and 16 to take up the issue of revised operating budget, only the majority vote is required. The school Board recommends this article, and I'm going to throw a few other words in that the proposed operating budget. Your plan is the result of the combined efforts of the school board and the school administration. It has been developed through an exhaustive process, being mindful of those taxpayers fearful of losing their homes through the crushing burden of property taxes.  In our most precious resource, our children discovered the balance is a challenge, is not a good one, pointed out the state  and federal aid is being diminished and costs down shifted to local communities,  with paramount suffering profoundly in this reality.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: With the highest property tax rate in the state of New Hampshire, in spite of the budgetary reductions directed by the primary school board, the federal funding for Something Here

[9602-26] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (moderator asks 'Chairman ... Frank Sprag | 2018-02-08
PREV> Frank Sprague: of property taxes. In our most precious resource, our children discovered the balance is a challenge, is not a good one, pointed out the state and federal aid is being diminished and costs down shifted to local communities, with paramount suffering profoundly in this reality.
TEXT> With the highest property tax rate in the state of New Hampshire, in spite of the budgetary reductions directed by the primary school board, the federal funding for Something Here Tonight sustains those services and programs, specifically crisis counselors and world language  that have been discussed at length during the school board meetings and through social media platforms. School administration has spurred the public and has responded. Other statements were, as Doctor Goodwin presented in this PowerPoint, the school board is confident that schools ministration will have sufficient resources to provide  a quality program for our students, with the amount proposed in this article. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Chairman. I've been approached already to recognize Mr. Denver. Mr. Benoit is presenting a motion that we began on your side. Registered voters of the city of Claremont

[9602-27] Tracy Pope | School District Moderator (addressed 'Tracy' [257, 293]; surname Pope  | 2018-02-08
PREV> Frank Sprague: spurred the public and has responded. Other statements were, as Doctor Goodwin presented in this PowerPoint, the school board is confident that schools ministration will have sufficient resources to provide a quality program for our students, with the amount proposed in this article. Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. Chairman. I've been approached already to recognize Mr. Denver. Mr. Benoit is presenting a motion that we began on your side. Registered voters of the city of Claremont request a secret ballot for article one and all related amendments.  It's signed by Rebecca Zullo. Jason. Then we're Jessica. Ben. Where Philip Osgood and Amy Austin are all five people present our students. So  we will be having secret ballots for any amendments or vote on October 2nd. Anyone wishing to speak against.
NEXT> Unidentified: I. I mapping or to. I have a minute to argue the main budget. I move to amend article to the main budget by creasing the total dollar amount by

[9602-30] Unidentified | Public commenter who moves to add $307,153 to article 2 [96-101]; name | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: I recognize you just so.
TEXT> This is why I support amending the school budget and increasing the main way to solve the tax problem in this town  is to attract new taxpayers to come here. The way to do that is not cutting their schools, because that's the first thing that people look at when they're looking to move through. Place the school. The way to fix the problems in Fairmont is not by taking taking resources away from the children and putting that  in, not, people's livelihoods are on the line. There are a source of income, their ability to put food on the table. The proposed budget would  impact our community as a whole, including cutting sites,  cutting life saving positions from our students. I sincerely hope that the board members and the community members take it. Think very hard about voting for this budget because if these cuts are passed, people will be without jobs, people will be without an income, students will be will be hurt. And it's not the way to solve the taxpaying problem with Claremont, in my opinion. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak against this amendment, I see no one. Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this amendment.

[9602-39] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 2, asking the administration about the position | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone that wishes to speak in favor of this amendment.
TEXT> For two. So I'm thinking that your recommendation with this amendment is to reinstate positions so that student learning and be productive as as we've been experiencing, is that what your intention is? Because it wasn't clear speaking. I'd like to hear from the administration. Doctor. Croydon. Claire. Of what those two positions would be in the school district or any teaching position specifically, and how it affects the.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I can speak to the curriculum position and some of the other positions that we have. So, one of the the positions on the topics blog post at the moment

[9602-40] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (a commenter asks to hear from the adm | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: we've been experiencing, is that what your intention is? Because it wasn't clear speaking. I'd like to hear from the administration. Doctor. Croydon. Claire. Of what those two positions would be in the school district or any teaching position specifically, and how it affects the.
TEXT> I can speak to the curriculum position and some of the other positions that we have. So,  one of the the positions on the topics  blog post at the moment is curriculum position.  That has been one of three. This is the second year we've had it, and for the first time in many years, and certainly the first time since I've been in this district, we can demonstrate that we've actually had increased in performance and proficiency. We've  raised math scores, we've raised English language arts scores.  We are closing the gap. We have over 120% growth in one area and 115% growth in the other area,  and that's a direct result of establishing a curriculum across the board that is not only aligned horizontally across grade levels, but vertically articulated as well,  so that we're not redundantly teaching the same things over and over again just because we like butterflies. But we actually have a spoken sequence to the curriculum that we're teaching. Our curriculum specialist also focused heavily on instruction and assessment. So we've talked a lot in the in the media around the over testing of our kids. We've actually reduced testing with our students, but then more specific and strategic in the testing that we do do,  so that we know from those results how to impact our instruction to better help the needs of our students.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: In terms of instruction, we do have a relatively high turnover rate of staff, and there's many different reasons for that. But when we have 20 to 25% new teachers

[9602-41] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (a commenter asks to hear from the adm | 2018-02-08
PREV> Cory LeClair: over testing of our kids. We've actually reduced testing with our students, but then more specific and strategic in the testing that we do do, so that we know from those results how to impact our instruction to better help the needs of our students.
TEXT> In terms of instruction, we do have a relatively high turnover rate of staff, and there's many different reasons for that. But when we have 20 to 25% new teachers every year,  they need a lot of support to get up and running and off the ground to better meet the needs of our students.  And so our  curriculum specialists  spend a lot of time coaching teachers, coaching administrators, looking at data, using that data to inform their instructions, and supporting student growth. We're a school system. Our primary business function is educating children.  And so the positions within our budget that are directly impacting the education of children, I think should mean, may  be remain the same. So  so in terms of the curriculum position and its impact on educational outcomes, I think that it would be great.  The positions. They also help with mentoring new teachers. They help with the certification pathways. We get a lot of teachers who are not fully certified for their position as they walk in the door, because they may have come from a different, related career path that has skills that can be applied to teaching. They don't have a teaching certificate specifically yet, but there are  alternative pathways for that.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And we have many, many teachers who choose that pathway. But there's a certain amount of oversight required in order for that to to happen effectively at the elementary level.

[9602-44] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: Earlier this.
TEXT> Year there was a question about competition. So we compare. Ourselves, other districts, the districts. Who are doing very, very well. As measured by student outcomes, perhaps the point of the faculty have have a structural support coaching specialist. The perception.
NEXT> Unidentified: Is that.

[9602-50] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: That everything.
TEXT> Will be pretty much because of the Claremont, and that because three elementary schools feed into the middle school, well, every Claremont but feed right in in truth, that's not true at all. Unless you have that connectivity  which the specialists do to support teachers to support that discussion across grade. So when students leave the elementary, they are moving into a connectivity with the middle school, in the same with the high school. So that is Northpoint. And the districts were exceeding have invested in supporting teachers versus allowing them to be isolated and hoping that they're the curriculum appropriately. So our students are here. In the piece I'd like to speak to is technology. Today's students, they're in a course technology. If we start to undermine our technology  similar to that filter I talked about,  if we start to allow our technology to fail, we are pulling away from what students drive to Dallas, Doctor Alex, Dr. John Wilson Stevens High School, I think a week or so ago, Alex and you made you made a comment about what you observe  with students and technology. That's their inner core start to undermine by extending it or replacing it, and you start to undermine instruction.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9602-58] Unidentified | Public commenter opposing the amendment ('largest employer', [163-164] | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: are the second highest education park in the state of New Hampshire. Next. But more importantly, this school district is a company I don't know if you know at all, but at the New Hampshire Employment Security dot dot dot site, it was the largest.
TEXT> Employer as the Claremont School District. So it's never been about the students. It's always about the personnel, always about the teachers, always about the maintenance of her,  always about the staff. We have to have more staff.  But if you have a company that's losing money. What do you do?  Either close it down  or you downsize. So I'm against this motion altogether, and I think the school board was headed for the majority of the school board was headed in the right direction, right back into our time.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone else wishing to speak?

[9602-74] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, arguing taxes deter young families [198-202] | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: Springfield, Vermont. And the reason that she's looking into her field is because of our taxes. So what I'm suggesting, and we have a lot of kids that are in their early 20s or late 20s. They live with their parents in Claremont right now.
TEXT> And it's not because they don't have a job and they're not productive. They can't afford to buy a house. So the question is, you know, is it time to start making this more attractive to young people? Anyone else wishing to speak for or against this amendment? I'll just as close right now. I worked with this one district 9:30 p.m.. Technology is something I'd like to see  $850,000 we saw as a cut. We didn't see the cuts last year from a technology which were very, very similar five years ago. Your director of technology, Maple Valley, got up here, showed you broken equipment. Your technology home is used a fraction of in school. It's used all the time. An eight year old or a seven year old on a computer is a lot different than 35 or 40 or 50. That's 1.20. Number two. Respectfully, I have to disagree. Respectfully. I have to disagree with the last person that just vote. My daughter got married. Me says he's a Stevens High School grad. Her husband is a Stevens High School graduate. They both had peace and jobs.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'll be honest, I didn't think they were going to want to live in them. They were living. You can make it, Claremont. Anybody can make it in Claremont. The

[9602-106] Unidentified | Public commenter, Ward 3, former school board member, moves the $175,0 | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: go on and on. You can make as many as you like. So I'm asking now the amendment as it stands, as you just voted on for the 300 and. Whatever, right. Can be amended. So is there anyone wishing to make an amendment? Yes.
TEXT> Awards three. Sorry, I didn't know I had to do it, so I don't know. But I propose an amendment to increase the budget by $175,000 to increase technology investments. It is. Like I think. The justice clarification. What we heard here tonight was the fact that the number of jobs have left Claremont, but we also heard is there are a number of jobs coming back in Claremont, one of them specifically identified with Red River. We have others southwest with Wieland. We have others that are in the machine shop industry. Technology is the basis for people being able to get those jobs and being prepared to get those jobs. I was on the board five, six years ago when the technology was drawn in, just broke, and it cost us enormous amount of money to bring it up to just where it needed to be.  When we start cutting back on technology,  we start putting our students and our graduates from position where they're not ready, they're not qualified for the jobs that we do have and the jobs that we have here. They're looking for people  that are trying to get people into open positions, and we need to be sure that our graduates have the technological abilities and the technology background to be prepared for those jobs. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: The amendment has presented to increase the budget by $175,000, which brings the total budget to $35,095,410.

[9602-108] Jason Benware | Ward 1 resident and school board candidate, elected 3/13/2018 (self-id | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: The amendment has presented to increase the budget by $175,000, which brings the total budget to $35,095,410.
TEXT> Jason. Isn't that. Where Ward one. At the last public session  when this was adopted, the. Original budget,  I was okay, where we were at  prior to adding in the $307,000, I thought it was a good compromise between the  what the taxpayers needed and  what the school needed. So I'm against the increase of $175,000 for that reason. I also think it's only fair to say that simply because we're not increasing the funding for technology. It's not as though we're throwing away all the technology we already have. So tomorrow or next year, when this budget comes around, the kids aren't going to go to school and not have any technology. Yeah, we may be a little thin on these things, but all seems to exist. So I think that the amended budget that this would be presented is a fair compromise, and I think we should stay in that. Thanks.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this amendment. Okay. In favor?

[9602-112] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (introduces the administrative team and is thank | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: And in favor of this moment I can hear from.
TEXT> Your answer to the question regarding tax rate is $0.25. And as the clock ticks 2012, the teacher of Stevens High School would take. Up. To ten minutes and the food up there was technology, but it was so hard to it the sport of the school district and the community. We started drinking back up. My concern is that you don't keep you to reinvest, invest in technology. The technology will work fine and we'll go back to this point where technology is not reliable. Right now at Claremont Middle School, we do not have the technology capacity for all students to be involved with the assessment called read, where we monitor their progress in the fall, spring and winter and spring. So at the end of the day, we can save money by not investing just like that. I use that for filtering. Then we can save money, but it's going to come back and we're going to lose ground. What, starting a computer.  And it takes ten minutes before it boots up. That's where we were seven years ago. Our students will not student deserve better. And as we've said earlier, technology is the foundation of the country and their future.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to speak in favor of this amendment.

[9602-121] Unidentified | Public commenter, Claremont Middle School technology staff member, sup | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Anyone wishing to be a favor.
TEXT> And I'd like to speak in favor of this. I don't have a prepared speech, but I work at the middle school, and I'm the technology that documented. And I'm the technology doctor. Something about  is true. We have computers that we're trying to do intervention. We have data that shows the kids that get on this program, their scores increase, but we we don't have the ability to get them on it. We have they do take not ten minutes but 20 minutes to load up. And we can't get on them. They die five minutes later. So to say we're a little slim probably isn't fair. I think we're a lot slim and that those are the overall. My second point is we're a business, but my kids come in here and I don't think they're just dispensable. I we're talking about not just a business but student achievement. What they're how they perform, the jobs that they can get later. And I don't know how you can get that on that. I live here, my taxes are crazy. I come from Maine and hearing tax bringing Hampshire. This is not tax free, by the way, but it is crazy. And I don't disagree that our taxes are high, but at the same time, it's just one aspect of that burden, just one aspect. The biggest, most important.
NEXT> Unidentified: It might be, but we have children and I'm not willing to sacrifice the education of my children. But if we're not going to also look at all these other

[9602-122] Unidentified | Public commenter, Claremont Middle School technology staff member, sup | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: and hearing tax bringing Hampshire. This is not tax free, by the way, but it is crazy. And I don't disagree that our taxes are high, but at the same time, it's just one aspect of that burden, just one aspect. The biggest, most important.
TEXT> It might be, but we have children and I'm not willing to sacrifice the education of my children. But if we're not going to also look at all these other places that people satisfied and, and look at the other areas that can be cut and not just the school budget. We need this money to help students achieve. We need it to help students be successful. And we need that money to help students succeed in the careers that they need to go to. That's how I have to thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: I remind everyone. That when someone is speaking for podium, you should be quiet and listen and not interrupt them. Thank you.

[9602-129] Unidentified | Public commenter supporting the technology amendment; works with stude | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyway, wishing to speak in favor of this amendment.
TEXT> I'm speaking. In. Favor of this event because I think democracy sometimes is divisive, and you do need to discuss what people value. I found it very much. The future of the children of this community. My children have already. Been fortunate enough to graduate. Through Stevens. And go on to college. Those I work with every day. Need that same opportunity. Well. I do try to trust Mr. Eilish. The 100 and. 41. Thousand dollars is referring to our dedicated dollars there for security,  and they're going to be applied along with the grant to security that is different than the technology we need for our students to learn and for our teachers to teach.  So please. It's not about being divisive. It's about thinking through what you value. And sometimes you disagree at that point. Thank you. Thank you. Can I get. One. Clarifying point before we move the question please? Because I not sure I agree with what the statement was as it relates to the default budget. Can we get clarification from Mike on that police.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: I have a motion that came before that.

[9602-170] Unidentified | Public commenter questioning cameras [412, 416]; name not audible | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Anyone wishing to speak against this article? Is there anyone wishing to speak against this article? I have to let everyone have a chance for us before you speak again. Okay. That you have to present new information, I am.
TEXT> If cameras are supposed to prevent an attack, can we look at the kind of people who tend to attack schools? They're the kind of people who want their faces now, and they want it to be known what they're done. So why are we giving them what we want? But they want. Sorry. When it comes to cameras, just tends to always be the conversation. But I can tell you, if someone who spent three hours in a lockdown at our school last week, the cameras are the only thing that kept me sane. Ability to see what was happening outside that lockdown, ability to know where the police officers were and what could, could or could not be happening because nothing actually happened. But knowing that information. So cameras aren't going to prevent pretty much anything, but they'll be able to tell you what happened. And from a day to day standpoint, I can tell you I take care of the cameras at my school. None of the kids are watching, but I put fake cameras around the school every now and then. And trust me, their behavior proves quite quickly just the you're thought that they think there's a camera on it. So to Frank's point, culturally it's a great opportunity. To your point, I understand where you're coming from.  But again, if someone who went through that situation, having cameras will save a lot more alive than not cameras.
NEXT> Unidentified: Was there an actual threat with this afternoon? Okay, what's. The point? No, that's a legitimate question. But yes, the threat was we don't know what's going on, and it's

[9602-173] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified 'David Putnam, Ward two' [28 | 2018-02-08
PREV> Tracy Pope: There's always that question. Second, I have a motion to move the question. I had someone that had asked me recognize, I'm going to let David speak.
TEXT> David. What? Guilty. As a former member of the high school renovation committee, we hosted with our architects and the structure manager several presentations from  expert companies on security and also experts on the real threats that happen when the school system doesn't provide safety for their students. It's not just the idea of thinking they're for finding safety. It's also provides a deterrent. When people know there's a good security system set up in your school, or the abilities, people act differently and have different behaviors. Also, it's not just about to provide the security, it's about being able to find out situations on bullying, misbehavior. Bullying is, as we know, going to be a huge, huge problem in our population. Specimens of children bullying, the cameras in security, health recognizable so that those issues can be addressed. Those are issues that I know our principles are.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. We have a motion that's been seconded to move the question. All in favor signify by saying I opposed name. Okay. We now have article three, security updates.

[9602-192] Tracy Pope | School District Moderator (addressed 'Tracy' [257, 293]; surname Pope  | 2018-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Anyone else wishing to speak? Seeing now I'd like to take a voice vote  on article five appears at CMS. All in favor, please, by saying I opposed. Nay. That concludes tonight's meeting. On behalf of the school district, I want to thank you here. Thank you for that. In mind you, this is second district meeting. His Majesty.
NEXT> Unidentified: Return second.

[9631-32] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: to be eligible for the school Infrastructure fund resources. And that's article three on the March 13th ballot. And if all goes as planned. The district and the city will save hundreds of thousands of dollars in upgrading, enhancing security, interior as well as exterior.
TEXT> That is not the result  of Florida, but it certainly does align with what's been what did happen a week ago today. So I just want to share that with you because, that's I just wanted to share that with you and that we will continue to do what we have done, working collaboratively with parents, resources,  resource officers, law enforcement,  faculty and residents. Because as you've heard me say before, the two most important things in our school culture is the physical and emotional safety of children and adults. And that can be, however, at times, challenging. I also want to share with you this Friday and before you, there was a document piece of paper that is a summary  of a professional development training. As you know, the Claremont School District was awarded a multiyear Multi-tiered System of Support grant.  And I'd like to read one portion of this. And so the training will continue with our K to eight staff.  This Friday, today's students face a myriad of social, emotional, and behavioral challenges that adversely affect academic achievement. The children needs for mental health care are largely unmet.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Between 14 and 20% of children and adolescents ages 8 to 15 experience a mental, emotional, or behavior disorder each year, and only about half of these children receive treatment.

[9631-33] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: read one portion of this. And so the training will continue with our K to eight staff. This Friday, today's students face a myriad of social, emotional, and behavioral challenges that adversely affect academic achievement. The children needs for mental health care are largely unmet.
TEXT> Between 14 and 20% of children and adolescents ages 8 to 15 experience a mental, emotional, or behavior disorder each year, and only about half of these children receive treatment. So schools are challenged with supporting the mental health needs of students while promoting academic achievement. And that clearly is a challenge, but both are critically important. So as a result of this, training will occur. We have a system in place that's been a pilot at Bluff and Dennard and Claremont Middle School. It is evolving as we speak.  But this multi-tiered support system,  which we anticipate will be a multi-year and preferably multi-decade effort to assist  community members, students, families,  with the needs and challenges that we face today. So  I chronically,  a week ago today, we had that that tragedy in Florida. And in part, it is learned that  the individual who did create that mayhem did have some clear issues. So and it's very frustrating because no matter what our walk of life is, we see certain things and we try to do the best we can with them. And sometimes we can correct the matter and sometimes we can't. And we find out later that we didn't.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: But we are committed to the emotional health, the behavioral health and the wellness of all our students. And this is just a piece of paper, but it does describe

[9631-34] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: very frustrating because no matter what our walk of life is, we see certain things and we try to do the best we can with them. And sometimes we can correct the matter and sometimes we can't. And we find out later that we didn't.
TEXT> But we are committed to the emotional health, the behavioral health and the wellness of all our students. And this is just a piece of paper, but it does describe our multi multi year commitment to that. I'm also pleased to tell you at been advertised and will continue to be advertised that this Sunday  at 2:00 at the Claremont Opera House. There will be a a film  of a raisin in the sun.  As you know, February is Black History Month month long celebration honoring the contribution of African Americans to our country and our country's history. So in recognition of that, at the opera House this Sunday, there will be a film that was produced in 1961, A raisin in the sun. All are welcome. There are no tickets per se. It's free. Donations are obviously welcome to to assist with this.  I have contacted the Claremont Middle School, the Unity  Middle School students, as well as the high school students and faculty. We're encouraging  our students to attend as part of our effort with  racial healing.  And we are even discussing with teachers to encourage students to attend  and perhaps even participate in extended learning opportunity, where what is going on in school can be transferred to the event  Sunday and then back to school.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So, we can never stop. We can never stop our efforts to understand racism and to deal effectively with it, especially to understand and appreciate that we all are different,

[9631-35] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: of our effort with racial healing. And we are even discussing with teachers to encourage students to attend and perhaps even participate in extended learning opportunity, where what is going on in school can be transferred to the event Sunday and then back to school.
TEXT> So,  we can never stop. We can never stop our efforts to understand racism and to deal effectively with it, especially to understand and appreciate that we all are different, but we all have the right to receive the treatment as others do. And I also would like to recognize, to piggyback on on Lexie's comments,  I'd like to piggyback and make a couple of comments to celebrate  some of our students. In the in the Claremont School District, in the elementary grades, as Lexi said,  the 65th Annual New Hampshire State Spelling Bee is taking place this Saturday in Concord. This is New Hampshire State Spelling Bee, and we have the winner of this will be will represent New Hampshire and go to Washington, D.C. and Maine for the in May for the National Spelling Bee. But I'm very pleased and proud to tell you that we have two students who will will be representing our community. Liliane Egan, who is a fourth grader from Bluff Elementary School, and Riley Sanders, a sixth grader from Claremont Middle School, will be participating in the 65th annual New Hampshire State Spelling Bee this Saturday. So I certainly recognize and congratulate these two young ladies for their accomplishments and certainly wish them well as they compete this Saturday.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: I also would like to share with you that, when we talk about being able to assist each other and our students, being able being a part of that, because

[9631-36] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Sanders, a sixth grader from Claremont Middle School, will be participating in the 65th annual New Hampshire State Spelling Bee this Saturday. So I certainly recognize and congratulate these two young ladies for their accomplishments and certainly wish them well as they compete this Saturday.
TEXT> I also would like to share with you that,  when we talk about being able to assist each other and our students, being able being a part of that, because students need to be a part of the challenges that we face.  And that is starting at a very young age. At the Bluff Elementary School District Elementary School and Maple Lab Elementary School this past Friday, we had the opportunity students had the opportunity to participate in some training that dealt with  conflict mediation. These conflict mediators or managers were trained as past Friday, February 9th, and they learned about setting ground rules, getting the story, active listening skills, brainstorming solutions, and and reaching what is called a win win. But most importantly, they would be working with their peers where they see conflict and attempt to mediate that versus wait for the adult to step in even though the adult is ready to do so. So I with your permission, I would like to recognize  these students who did participate their fourth graders, and they will be next year's grade five conflict managers  at the Maple Ave.  There they  are  Adrian Marsh, Elsie Mullen, Maddox Lee, Emma Tara Koski, Noah Zorrilla, Joshua How, Adriene Pelton, and Brady Little, and at the Bluff Elementary School. Edison.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Sunshine, Lily. Egan, Shea Lynn. Harrell, Addison. DeRosa, Madeline. Jarvis, Hannah. Davis, Julia Stapleton, Adriana Thompson, Ethan Scanlan, and Kaylee Pike. And last but certainly not least, at Maple Ave

[9631-37] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: their fourth graders, and they will be next year's grade five conflict managers at the Maple Ave. There they are Adrian Marsh, Elsie Mullen, Maddox Lee, Emma Tara Koski, Noah Zorrilla, Joshua How, Adriene Pelton, and Brady Little, and at the Bluff Elementary School. Edison.
TEXT> Sunshine, Lily. Egan, Shea Lynn. Harrell, Addison. DeRosa, Madeline. Jarvis, Hannah. Davis, Julia Stapleton, Adriana Thompson, Ethan Scanlan, and Kaylee Pike. And last but certainly not least, at Maple Ave Elementary School. Excuse me, at the Disney Art Elementary School.  Riley, Leonard. Karana McKee, Annabel. Smolensky, Madison. Hannigan, James. Stevens, Jeffrey Robbins, Alex Breck, Anna  Box, and Fiona zang. Very proud of of our  of our students and of their accomplishments. And last but not least,  every year there is the HPR winter basketball tournament, and that is the Hanover Park and Recreation Winter basketball tournament. And we had  a group of eight third and fourth grade girls coached by Shea and Jen. Saudia. I'm apologize if I'm mispronouncing your names. I'm not very good sometimes with pronouncing last names.  And with a first name like mine, you sometimes wonder why. But,  But all that aside, I do want to recognize these young ladies for their sportsmanship. I want to recognize them for representing  the Claremont Elementary Schools. And we should be very proud of them. And their names are Audrina, Adriana Pelton, Lily Egan, Bailey, Sabia. Bailey. I'm sorry if I mispronounce your name. Addie DeRosa, Gianna Bovell, Anna Aiken, Peyton Button, and Riley Leonard.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So we have a lot to be proud about in our community as measured by the accomplishments of our students. And I just want to say one more thing. If

[9631-38] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: them for representing the Claremont Elementary Schools. And we should be very proud of them. And their names are Audrina, Adriana Pelton, Lily Egan, Bailey, Sabia. Bailey. I'm sorry if I mispronounce your name. Addie DeRosa, Gianna Bovell, Anna Aiken, Peyton Button, and Riley Leonard.
TEXT> So we have a lot to be proud about in our community as measured by the accomplishments of our students. And I just want to say one more thing. If I can, in your packet toward the end, there is a document from the New Hampshire School Board Association, and the title of it is role of a School Board Member. You know, when things go well, we're pleased. And when things don't go well, we have some choices to make. We can blame somebody else. We can ignore or deny that things haven't gone well. We can make excuses. Kick the sand. Or we can consider what has happened as an opportunity. And. And when I think back of the budget process  this this year and I think back at some of the, the,  our school board discussion. It was pretty clear to me that it revealed a fundamental lack of trust between the community and his schools. And I don't like saying that, but I heard it. And so I can ignore it, or I can take it as an opportunity if there isn't trust. And if there aren't relationships, we can't make progress. And referring to this New Hampshire School Board Association article, the board and superintendent form the school district leadership team.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The effective functioning of this team requires mutual trust and a clear understanding as to the school board's role in governance and the superintendents roles in administering the daily function

[9631-45] Brian Rapp | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Brian' [83, 354, 549] | 2018-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Right? Okay. Well, we'll go back to it after this. I was just.
TEXT> Curious with the events last week in Florida. Middleton, you know, or  maybe Pat, you would know if there's been any discussion  amongst the faculty or  the students. Let's see  about participating in any of the. I know there have been student gatherings  directed towards gun control, and I didn't know if there was talk about that, if the kids were being encouraged to,  you know, engage in that, if that's what they felt. And just curious.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If, Frank, if I may, I would defer to Pat. Barry. Alexi, I am not aware, I will tell you that next week, and I'm quite sure it's, it is

[9631-70] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (chair recognizes 'Rebecca' [125, 56 | 2018-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: He's he's famous, that's all. Rebecca.
TEXT> So I just wanted to go back to the safety. I think a lot of the community is concerned about  what will be our future. And, thinking about how we're going to protect our schools and make our children safe. So I'm wondering if we can't put that on the agenda for our next meeting is just to have a have a discussion around that, what we're looking towards, looking forward towards the future. I have a few ideas I'd love to share and get feedback from the board on.  I just think that we owe it to our students and our parents and our community to have a conversation about what that's going to look like for us in the future. And I also want to go back to, what you mentioned about the board in the superintendent and the community all needing to trust each other. And I think that I mentioned that a long time ago, even before I was a board member, that that was a real concern for me. You know, the culture and climate in our district and the ability for us all to be able to trust one another. And,  I'd like to be able to have a conversation at some, some point with the board about that as well, because I do have some,  ideas on ways that we might be able to make things better.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And I think that we all need to agree that, just because it's a touchy subject doesn't mean it's a terrible subject, and it doesn't mean terrible things are going

[9631-86] Jessica Sawyer | Public commenter, Mulberry Street (self-identified 'Jessica Sawyer' [1 | 2018-02-21
PREV> Jessica Sawyer: The substitute teacher proceeded to tell the class while looking at my daughter, if this were back in my day, you people would have been paddled. As she was also looking at my daughter, she said, you people have no discipline or respect for others.
TEXT> My daughter started pacing the classroom and crying uncontrollably. The substitute was creating so many problems that a handful of students had to be, that another teacher walked into her class and removed five students.  All of this was reported to the vice principal and to the principal, with no consequences forthcoming. It has been reported to the superintendent as well. He seemed to see more of a problem with the students than the substitute. He said he would speak to the administration of Claremont Middle School. If you speak to the students. They have had her as a substitute. You will hear several stories of the substitute teacher behaving inappropriately. She is told teachers told students to shut up. She called another class shitheads. She has embarrassed students in class. Instead of using the guidelines room or even the office of the vice principal or principal. If these students are giving her such a hard time, why doesn't she use the resources given to her? Why is she still allowed to be at this or any school? She's doing more harm than good. On February 20th, my daughter was in gym class playing hockey with a group of friends.
NEXT> Jessica Sawyer: Well, my daughter's group was not playing. Another student hit the puck towards her. This student told my daughter, give me the puck or I will kill you. My daughter

[9631-113] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: beginning of the year. So it's completely individualized. We have set growth targets, goals of the percent of students who will meet those growth targets in every area by level K to five, six through eight and nine through 12 for math, reading and writing.
TEXT> And then with I already there are sort of what the analytics, the data analytics expect. To see happening. And I'll just kind of breeze through this quickly. Based on the entire population of students who have taken this assessment in the data sample that they have,  the folks who are much more into statistics than I am have decided what should be expected growth for the mid year based on a certain grade level and what should be expected growth for the entire year on average for students. And that's the chart you see here. So in this I've  included last year's data and this year's data. So you can see that comparison right on the same screen. The first  column is clearly grade level. And then you can see the percentage of students who have met their midyear target. What that means is the percentage of students who have made half a year's worth of growth in half a year time, the the columns on the right, the meeting, the end of year target. Those are the students who have made, they have already met the target for the end of year growth. So they are actually growing more than a year's worth of growth in a year's time. Our lowest is 22% in grade three. So almost a quarter of our kids in our lowest sample have already made a year's worth of growth in only half a year's time.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Our middle school data, we again with our mid-year targets, the percent of students who have made those and our end of year targets percent of students who have made

[9631-119] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And then we have our reading data. Again. You know, in grades four  and five this year we have over half of our students meeting their end of year proficiency our end of year growth target. Excuse me, not their end of year growth target already.  I know I'm. Kind of in.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The way. That's okay. You're fine.

[9631-121] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: The way. That's okay. You're fine.
TEXT> If you remember back to one of the original slides, our our  targets for our, our five year goals were, you know, in the 85% range for, math and reading. And we have some data points that indicate that we've either already arrived there or we're really close to arriving there. And academic achievement goals that we're. So here. We have six, seventh and eighth for reading. And you may have noticed our reading performance is a little higher across the board than our math. Performance and. Reading for the high school. So last year we did all of grade nine and grade ten. This year we focused on those students enrolled in an English nine and an English ten class. So we may have had some ninth grade, 10th grade students who were tested both in math and the LA, if they happen to be enrolled in an algebra class and in an English nine class at the same time. And we may have other students who weren't tested at all first semester, but then we are doing the same thing for second semester. At the semester break in January, the students were tested as the pretest at the beginning of their semester of learning in either English or math, and they'll be tested at the end of the year, so we'll have that data to compare.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Then we move on to writing. Our writing goals were in terms of growth, are related to students being able to make at least one level proficiency gain, based on

[9631-123] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: always be post assessment. So you'll see the green is sort of heavier on the left side, the below level, that level and the at level. And as instruction occurs there are more students in the at level and above level than approaching and below.
TEXT> And so what you want to see in all of these is essentially, the, the beginning of the year being a downslope and the end of the year being an upslope. That makes sense. First grade. The majority of our students are at grade level. Second grade, third grade. Fourth grade, fifth grade, sixth grade,  seventh and eighth. High school. It's always just slightly different, slightly different character at the high school. All students take the common argumentative writing assessment.  And so it's not broken down by specific grade level. It's more aggregate,  an aggregate of folks. And so it's also measured on the substantially below proficient, partially proficient, proficient proficient plus and. Proficient. With distinction that you at the high school level see on the report card. So based on their rubric, this is the percent of students that are in each of those areas. Pre assessment again in green and post assessment in blue. So you do see the shift from pre to post of greater number of students in the proficient and above levels than than not. This was for students who are enrolled in first semester Ela courses. So if you didn't have any LA course first semester, you were not included in this process at the high school level.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The high school also has specified competencies, and we're going to be talking more about k eight competencies a little later in the meeting tonight. But two of the competencies,

[9631-124] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: of students in the proficient and above levels than than not. This was for students who are enrolled in first semester Ela courses. So if you didn't have any LA course first semester, you were not included in this process at the high school level.
TEXT> The high school also has specified competencies, and we're going to be talking more about k eight competencies a little later in the meeting tonight. But two of the competencies, I've pulled data for our I didn't pull data. Christine Downing was able to pull data for for the high school folks, the first one about writing and the second one about language. And you can just see across every  English class where these competencies were measured, you'll be able to see what our total student performance is on these competencies. So the first one is writing. And again you see the bar is heavier on the left side. There's not a pre and post here. It's just how did our students perform on this particular competency related to writing across all English classes? And the second time is. Around the conventions of English language. And common before. Across all English classes. Again, the percent of students who are in the proficient range on the on the right hand side of the screen, greater than the number of students who are not yet.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Something that's challenging to report out on with writing in particular, is the fact that we don't give an overall writing grade to students. Writing is broken down into components,

[9631-126] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: presentation in front of a school board on every single different area, for every grade level, for every type of writing. So we tried to pick something that was at least common across all of them, to be reflective of what students performance looks like.
TEXT> And I think the other point to make is growth in this area does not necessarily mean proficiency  for  our kindergarten kiddos, for instance. And we'll talk more about this at the March 7th meeting. A lot of our kindergartners came in not even being able to recognize the difference between a letter and a number, or not being able to recognize their own name in print, let alone other things in print. And so when we think about where they're going to be starting in writing or other content areas, it may be far from proficient at this time. However, we still can think about how much growth they're making because we need to take them from wherever they come to us and move them forward. So I think just that important distinction between growth doesn't necessarily mean proficiency. We'll talk about proficiency in March 7th, but growth is still important to measure our impact as instructors on on learning. So this is just the little piece of proficiency data that is embedded in here. The percent. Of students moving at least one proficiency levels. So you can see the highest is third grade. Almost 60% of our kids moved at least one proficiency level. So it might have been from a at grade level to above grade level, or it might have been from below grade level to at grade level. But they've moved at least one level. Here it is for and.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Again nine through 12 is clustered together because they do the writing piece differently. At that. Great. And here is the percent of students proficient by grade. Late in the

[9631-130] Unidentified | Elementary school administrator reporting on writing [297-301] ('Mr. F | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: face just beaming because he and I have had many conversations about writing over the years. The nice part about the rubric format that we're using now is that the the way the data gets entered, it generates a classroom rubric and individual student rubrics.
TEXT> And so then I, as a classroom teacher, can look for patterns in that classroom rubric in that in that moment I give that and I notice, boy, a lot of my kiddos, it looks like this is going to be an area I want to target for class instruction. Then when I give, I can look at individuals to see which areas I want to support. So it really becomes an instructional tool. As you heard Cory mentioned, the writing curriculum has really been developed in-house with the support of Amanda Aarons. Our teachers have worked to create those units of instruction in writing, and they very intentionally have not created lessons for every day in the unit that's on purpose, so that there are opportunities for teachers to create lessons to address the needs they see identified in those rubrics. So if my classroom is struggling with this particular area based on the pre assessment, then I'm going to design my lessons to support that need. That may or may not be the exact same need as the teacher next to me. So it's an opportunity to have an instructional tool that allows teachers to be very responsive not only to individual student needs, but to classroom needs through instruction. So that's been a really nice addition to the writing program and to how we can look at that data and then use it.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have so much more than two minutes, but I get you, so you'll give me the hook. Okay. So similar to the elementary schools, this the data that we're

[9631-131] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes Mary Woodman's roll calls, fragments of C | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: instructional tool that allows teachers to be very responsive not only to individual student needs, but to classroom needs through instruction. So that's been a really nice addition to the writing program and to how we can look at that data and then use it.
TEXT> I have so much more than two minutes, but I get you, so you'll give me the hook.  Okay. So similar to the elementary schools, this the data that we're able to collect is very rich and it's very meaningful if we do something with it. So we're addressing things in a couple of different ways. So we're looking at trends overall. So for example, our  Ela teachers, work together by grade level and by, by building level. And we were able to identify our kids are struggling with  and hold on with informational text and vocabulary. So what can we do about that? So then they're working together and trying to determine what are the best instructional strategies that they can use. Because now we know overall our kids are struggling with informational texts and vocabulary. Our math teachers were also looking at the data and discovering in sixth grade that the students were, seemed to be struggling overall with geometry. So then they were looking at they they took a little bit of a different, approach they're looking at when they teach geometry that that section during the year. So if I ready is expecting the kids to be proficient in geometry in December and they're not teaching geometry until March, then do we need to adjust that?  But also, we're using the data to adjust our wind groupings,  which is our intervention block.
NEXT> Unidentified: And it's also, kind of making us look at what we're doing that during that intervention time, that wind block. Is it that the students need more time on the

[9631-134] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (uncertain - not named in this segment; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: us as to the different kinds of things we need to offer for students as far as elementary, not elementary, but more rudimentary math classes as you were asking about earlier. Frank math once skills one and two more sections of that pre-algebra English workshop.
TEXT> And we're now offering both English and Maths at prep classes, where they're actually going to go to a quarter long class to be prepared for SAT, both in math and English. So, also the math department is like the middle school targeting their flex time. So instead of just having  all the math kids from all the classes that they teach come to flex. So you can imagine that could be 20 kids in your flex time, and you're trying to teach geometry to this one, algebra to this one. They're designating on Tuesday. I'll take my geometry kids. On Wednesday, I'll take my algebra one kids. That way they can do a more focused lesson and not be so disparate amongst the kids, and they get more genuine help that way. So the data and also, you know, our kids know what they're there. I ready scores are. And so they're starting to take the tests more seriously. I think the data is becoming much more valid. And they're really they're really becoming motivated to do better on these tests. And it's extremely helpful for us in placing students better at the beginning of a semester in the courses where they belong, so that they are more successful, and using teacher recommendations, but mostly the data to determine what classes students should be in.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9631-144] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Okay.
TEXT> Students and parents or teachers, I'll go to the students and parents, maybe I won't. Can't look at that screen. Sorry. Hoping. Okay, I'll just show you the teacher side for a minute. But if you look. Here, you can see the every grade level. Everything is hyperlinked. So if you go in, you can see the units, you can click on them. And it brings you to actual lessons. Everything. Everything is there that's been developed by our teachers.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And how do they. How does your curriculum line up with the DOE? I know it's going to line up, but sure. Do you take some of their information, incorporate

[9631-247] Emily | Community educator, Turning Points Network (first name only on record; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: All right. Thank you.
TEXT> Okay. Well, I'll just start talking. Thanks for having me here tonight. So I have been with turning points for 14 years, and in my time and well before my time, we've enjoyed a long and storied partnership with Claremont Schools and with the saw. And it's kind of been an evolving program that we've done. So this partnership, the most recent chapter is the pilot program or the proposed pilot program of the Health Relationships Project. So. Oh, look at you. Thank you. So real quick. We do violence prevention programing from pre-K all the way up through 12. We work with adults as well as kids, and we are in the schools. This proposed pilot focuses on grades two through five only. And it focuses on sexual abuse. Let's just go through this quickly. I won't make you guess all these. Although I could, When we talk about sexual abuse, we know that it affects 1 in 4 girls. It affects 1 in 6 boys. 10% of offenders are strangers to the child, which means most perpetrators are known to the kids. We know that one out of three cases are committed by juveniles,  and it means that approximately one out of ten victims of sexual abuse reports it during their childhood.
NEXT> Emily: So those are some pretty staggering statistics as numbers on a page. But then you go and stand in front of your kids in your classrooms, and it's hard to

[9631-248] Emily | Community educator, Turning Points Network (first name only on record; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Emily: offenders are strangers to the child, which means most perpetrators are known to the kids. We know that one out of three cases are committed by juveniles, and it means that approximately one out of ten victims of sexual abuse reports it during their childhood.
TEXT> So those are some pretty staggering statistics as numbers on a page. But then you go and stand in front of your kids in your classrooms, and it's hard to look out there and know what you're seeing. So part of our violence prevention program has always been talking about body safety, talking about, preventing violence from ever happening. So with the advent of SB 460, we are kind of using this as an opportunity to shift our focus a little bit. So SB 460, in response to a lot of the statistics I just showed you, was passed, and it's legislation that says all schools must provide sexual abuse prevention programing to kids. We've as I said, we've been doing this for a long time. But we encountered the Healthy Relationships Project in our evolution and looking at best practices, looking at the literature. So I just want to take a couple of minutes to kind of walk you through what we're proposing and what it will look like. So the overview of the Healthy Relationships Project, again, this pilot is two through five only.
NEXT> Emily: But it all falls under the same framework of prevention. So first we are talking about adults protecting kids. And what's great about the Healthy Relationships project is that it's

[9631-249] Emily | Community educator, Turning Points Network (first name only on record; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Emily: looking at the literature. So I just want to take a couple of minutes to kind of walk you through what we're proposing and what it will look like. So the overview of the Healthy Relationships Project, again, this pilot is two through five only.
TEXT> But it all falls under the same framework of prevention. So first we are talking about adults protecting kids. And what's great about the Healthy Relationships project is that it's a comprehensive approach, meaning that we're not just talking to the kids. So there's a component of staff training. There's a component of parent engagement and caregiver engagement. There are handouts and newsletters and things that are ready to go and available to the schools. Because we know that when adults around kids are equipped to talk to kids about preventing sexual abuse, when they're equipped to hear disclosures and to respond to them, we know that we are able to keep our kids safer, trauma informed practice. Again, go look in any classroom and you'll see kids who have been touched by trauma and not just sexual abuse, but other forms of abuse as well. So with that lens, this program was developed and it's delivered through that lens. Knowing that the way we speak to kids about this needs to acknowledge that many of the kids were speaking to have experienced this trauma. So it looks to not kids. It's very carefully crafted with its language to, not inadvertently give messages that would induce blame or shame or anything like that.
NEXT> Emily: Developmentally targeted education. I mean, any curriculum worth its salt is going to be developmentally targeted, right? But I think the the really neat thing about this is that these

[9631-252] Emily | Community educator, Turning Points Network (first name only on record; | 2018-02-21
PREV> Emily: national health standards. And if you look at the curriculum, you can flip through. And with each lesson it breaks out. This is what it's aligned with. This is the benchmark that it's meeting. Here are the outcomes. Here's how we're going to get there.
TEXT> Without going into too much detail, because I want to leave time for questions. The when we get to three, four, five, we're looking at understanding feelings, boundaries, communication. And I've had the chance to do this in other schools, and it's just a really neat program. Grade two is actually part of a different curriculum, part of the same set, but the focus is very different. So in grade two, what we're looking at is, trusted adults. How do we ask for help? How do we talk to them about what's going on? We talk about bodies. We talk about body parts. We use basic anatomical language to describe bodies. We talk about babies,  which the kids love. And we talk about caring for babies and adults, helping babies be clean and safe and healthy. We talk about asking for permission. And that's a theme that you'll see run through the program. Asking for permission is really a rudimentary way of talking about boundaries and accepting and coping with somebody saying no to something. So that, again, is when you see the perpetrator lens kind of coming through. The program runs for 4 to 6 sessions for each grade.
NEXT> Emily: I think for this year we'd be asking to do it for four sessions, because we know how many demands there already are on teachers and how precious time is.

[9631-254] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Emily: sessions, because we know how many demands there already are on teachers and how precious time is. But it can go up to six. And this program also does expand out pre-K through eight. So that's something that could be looked at in future years.
TEXT> So some things to consider is we have an internal checks and balances process essentially for our new curriculum. And so this curriculum has gone through the Curriculum Council and has been vetted and approved at that level for to move forward. It's also been reviewed by the Sussex cabinet  for the same reasons. And then once it goes through those two steps, then it comes to the school board for approval. The curriculum is mandated by law. So it's one of those state requirements that we need to  accommodate. At this point, it's great to have the partnership with Turning Points because, Emily has a wealth of knowledge in this area that your typical classroom teacher,  even your, your typical health teacher or guidance counselor doesn't necessarily have in terms of training and specialization. And so we've had instances in the past. Emily's been working with our schools for so long and teaching our children where kids have disclosed to her, and she has the training and expertise to be able to support kids through that process in a really safe and careful way, and help the staff in those buildings to support kids as well.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So it's not just to focus on the students, but also a focus on our staff. And so. I mean, the takeaways for me are Emily's already working with our

[9631-255] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: and teaching our children where kids have disclosed to her, and she has the training and expertise to be able to support kids through that process in a really safe and careful way, and help the staff in those buildings to support kids as well.
TEXT> So it's not just to focus on the students, but also a focus on our staff.   And so. I mean, the takeaways for me are  Emily's already working with our kids. This is just a shift in content to meet state requirements. It's been through all of our internal approval processes, and she has greater expertise in this area than any of our internal staff do. So it would be the the highest expertise individual teaching  the content. And so I think it's for questions at this point. So it's a pilot this year for 2 to 5. And then potentially working with  our health educators six through 12 and looking to expand down for K and one in the future depending on how how this all goes. And it is, as she mentioned, tied to national health standards.
NEXT> Emily: And we also have the capacity to where we can do train the trainer. So we can also look at training individual like guidance counselors to provide for certain grades

[9631-261] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Questions for Corey' [322]; s | 2018-02-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And is this another state requirement that doesn't that cost the district money that doesn't come with funding attached to it? Or how does is that going to work?
TEXT> Sort of. I mean, nothing's free.  However, we already had a relationship in contract with turning Points that we were paying because we value their contribution to our students. So, you know, and so there's not they aren't charging us extra to do this. It's just changing the nature and scope of the work that we already had an agreement for. If it wasn't turning points, if we didn't have this resource in our community and we didn't have this expertise in our community, it would fall to our internal staff to figure it out and implement it. And so it's  it's not adding any say this lightly. It's not really adding any burden to our internal staff. It's just leveraging our community partners a little differently based on what they can access for us.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any questions for Emily or Corey?

[9631-282] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair addresses 'Doctor Goodwin' [26]; gives th | 2018-02-21
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> If I may, Frank, it's unfortunate, but with social studies, there were some states who were one with Massachusetts doing away with any type of assessment, with social studies, almost not having time to teach it.  And when we think about social studies and  having our our students be aware of their country's history and aware of the world history, it's it's critical, but it's being driven, being driven by assessments. So there's an ongoing battle to bring back the importance of one's history.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah. Let's win that battle.

[9682-83] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: act of unity. They helped to supervise and even made some remarks of support and acknowledgment. No one was forced to be out there that day. Everything was voluntary and no teacher, staff member, administrator, guidance counselor, parent, etc. told us we had to participate.
TEXT> Everyone had a choice that day. No shame should go to those students, parents, faculty members or public members that chose not to participate. Just as no shame should go to those who did participate after the 17 minute walkout, which started at 10:00 in the morning, obviously everyone peacefully and respectfully returned to class at 1017 today, Wednesday, March 21st, was the state S.A.T. test for all juniors at Stevens High School. Testing was done in the Teal Lantern and Stevens High School gymnasium and other classrooms that weren't being used at the time. The juniors were then served pizza after, and they were allowed to go home at 1:00 tomorrow. Thursday, March 22nd. The Stevens High School Concert Choir, concert band, Steven Ayers Jazz Band, and our ELO performers Carsten Klein  and Adeline Nelson will perform our annual music and our Schools Month concert, which is our spring concert. We will be playing a Scottish folk piece, a thrilling metropolis piece, and much more to go along with. This will be singing an Irish piece, other pieces and a family favorite written by none other Freddie Mercury, which I bet you all can guess. We're singing Bohemian Rhapsody. It's going to be pretty great. We hope that it will be another great concert and everyone who comes and joys and sells.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: The concert starts at 7:00 in the Stevens High School auditorium, and doors open at 630. Admission is free, but donations are always welcome and greatly appreciated. On Saturday, March

[9682-85] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: going on this experience of a lifetime want to thank the Claremont Realtors Association for another donation of $1,095? Sorry to the D.C. Trip fund. This donation will cover one students entire trip. Another thank you goes out to the for their donation of $300.
TEXT> This money will go towards potential incidentals they may encounter while on the trip. Administration will be working this May on organizing next year's trip. On Wednesday, March 28th, 6:00 will be all city choir concert in the City of High School gymnasium.  We band and choir students at Stevens are so excited to share our love for music with some future musicians who could be in our shoes one day. Students from bluff, Dessner, CMS, and Maple Elementary Schools are joining us for a night full of amazing music. Join us on Wednesday for an amazing treat! Some of the members of the Student Voice Group at Stevens High School will be attending the State Student Voice Summit at Saint Anselm College on Friday, March 23rd. At this summit, these members will meet other students and learn what is happening in other organizations just like ours. The Fuel Up to play 60 kickoff was a huge success. All thanks to the Student Voice Group and the student council at Stevens High School. Guest speakers included Mr. and Mrs. Luther from a dairy farm, and Pete Brock, former NFL Patriot and head of the New England Patriots Alumni Association. The assemblies ended with an unveiling of the smoothie machine and breakfast cart.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Mr. Brock through some memorabilia into the crowds of students as well. Kaylee Simmons, a junior at Stevens High School, was the lucky raffle winner of a autographed football from

[9682-86] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: student council at Stevens High School. Guest speakers included Mr. and Mrs. Luther from a dairy farm, and Pete Brock, former NFL Patriot and head of the New England Patriots Alumni Association. The assemblies ended with an unveiling of the smoothie machine and breakfast cart.
TEXT> Mr. Brock through some memorabilia into the crowds of students as well. Kaylee Simmons, a junior at Stevens High School, was the lucky raffle winner of a autographed football from Devin McCourty. Last week, members of The Student Voice and the Student council brought smoothie flavors around to to the different to the different classrooms during flex time for the faculty and students to try. Everyone then voted on their favorite flavor and was even given the opportunity to offer different suggestions. The grab and go cart has arrived in free breakfast for students and faculty. Thanks to the numerous generation generous donations we have received from businesses in the area. We will be starting this soon.  All school Community Service Day has been moved to Monday, April 16th. We're looking for projects in the community for us students to do. Therefore, if anyone has a recommendation, please contact Miss Patricia Berry at Stevens High School. Here's a dessert update. Dessert elementary School third graders participated in the annual Fire Safety Calendar contest, which is sponsored by the Department of Safety, Division of Fire Safety, and the New Hampshire Fire Prevention Society.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: All of these agencies believe that fire prevention and life safety should be a part of everyday life all year long. In every New Hampshire household. Within this contest, third

[9682-87] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (first name ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Lexi Grenier: please contact Miss Patricia Berry at Stevens High School. Here's a dessert update. Dessert elementary School third graders participated in the annual Fire Safety Calendar contest, which is sponsored by the Department of Safety, Division of Fire Safety, and the New Hampshire Fire Prevention Society.
TEXT> All of these agencies believe that fire prevention and life safety should be a part of everyday life all year long. In every New Hampshire household. Within this contest, third graders are encouraged to create a poster representing an important fire prevention in life safety message. This annual contest is open to all third grade students in New Hampshire from the second year. For the second year in a row, a dessert elementary school third grader was one of our winners. Congratulations, Anna Lee Wilde on your accomplishment and her family. Miss Buckley, who is analise teacher, Miss Leanne Bruno, which is the art teacher, and Miss Lewis will all be going to the New Hampshire Fire Academy on Thursday, March 29th to celebrate her win tomorrow. Thursday, March 22nd is desserts. Title one department is hosting a family event. The Math Carnival will feature some fun activities that model fun ways for students to practice math concepts and skills in a carnival like atmosphere. This event is also co-hosted by the PTA, who will be providing some yummy snacks for the event. And Maple update Maple Avenue is celebrating youth Arts in our school month this Friday, March 23rd is Plenty of Patterns Day where where the students will wear as many patterns as they can.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Next week is Maple Avenue plant. Yeah. Plant night. Paint night. Parents and students come together to create masterpieces. Tuesday, March 27th is for grades one and two. Wednesday, March

[9682-93] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Lexi. Thank you. Superintendent.
TEXT> Thank you. And good evening. At your place this evening. You found this annual report, and in it there are some documents that I'm going to refer to in a few minutes. But to echo what Frank Sprague said, it was very gratifying and with much appreciation that the Claremont community, regardless of the whether, supported the students, supported our academic programs  going forward in this report, is a is a condensed but fairly comprehensive overview of of our schools, of the finances,  of our student accomplishments, and some of our financial challenges. So I am proud of this report, based on those who participated and based on the purpose of this report, which is our students. I also want to thank  the Eagle Times, the Valley News,  as well as for communicating with the community to inform the community.  As far as the March 13th of  ballots, warrant articles  are only a name.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Not understanding what the Warren article really represents is a problem. So I do appreciate the assistance of our local media to provide information so the community can make informed

[9682-94] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: purpose of this report, which is our students. I also want to thank the Eagle Times, the Valley News, as well as for communicating with the community to inform the community. As far as the March 13th of ballots, warrant articles are only a name.
TEXT> Not understanding what the Warren article really represents is a problem. So I do appreciate the assistance of our local media to provide information so the community can make informed decisions. I also would like to share with you  the following in your packet.  Actually, in the annual report, one of the documents is entitled Claremont Group Seeks Team Home. One of the great challenges for some of our high school students  is that they become pregnant and give birth to a baby before they graduate from high school, and through the work of one for All Space with Cathy Pellerin, through the work also of TLC, Family Center and other organizations, we come, come together and work together to support young ladies and young men who are young parents who have yet to finish school. And referring to this, the aim is to give the young families, who are sometimes couch surfers, more stable housing while the parent finish high school and the children are cared for in the adjacent child care center, said Cathy Pellerin, who sits on the nonprofit board and runs the grant funded one for All Space childcare center, which is operated by Saw six.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So, young men and young ladies who become parents who have not finished school, right. Great risk of finishing school and not all have the support from their their family.

[9682-211] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Dan, how was that distributed? Because I have a child in bluff and I didn't receive any information about that.
TEXT> It it was distributed. If I made Frank, it was distributed  by a school messenger.  I sent out information, I think, twice to all parents and staff in the Claremont School District reminding them of this event and providing them a copy of the documentation that their children had received and the and the. I think it was 2 or 3 sheets that the parents the children had received to bring home. I sent that to all the parent electronically. So every parent, either by their child or by me, electronically received the information.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I'd like to move the discussion along, and if people have more questions, they could maybe email us and we could ask you or email you guys.

[9682-234] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides over the swearing-in and the chair ele | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: period with an easy opt out by the parents. What's important to note is that school prevention is a dental to office prevention. What goes on and what will go on in our schools is no different than what would happen in a dentist's office.
TEXT> But what is a difference is that many parents have difficulty and an expense to provide that type of dental intervention. So this grant will provide a great deal of prevention to arrest and prevent cavities, prevent toothaches, and reduce school absence. So I'm very pleased about this in oral examination. Tooth cleaning, cabby prevention, health education to teach children how to brush a toothbrush and toothpaste, a report to the school nurse were necessary and a referral to the dentist when necessary. With the parents obviously being involved at no cost to the children, at no cost to the school district. A child's oral health is very, very important, lifelong importance. And if you think it's difficulty being in school for six hours, 6.5 hours, try being in school when you have a toothache.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[9682-266] Liza Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3; TLC Family Resource Center (self-identified  | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: I will do that.
TEXT> Thank you. My name is Liza Draper. I'm a resident of Ward three.  I came with a specific agenda, which I'll touch on in a moment, but I must speak to the issue of Aaron's law. Aaron's law was passed in our state in 2016. It's been passed in many states all across the country. The goal of that law is to protect children from child sexual abuse. The purpose  of the educational programing that TPN is offering under the Healthy Relationships banner is to protect children from  child sexual abuse. The longer we dither, the more children we leave vulnerable to exactly that. And we're already behind. Implementation of this was supposed to take place in 2017. I can well understand why a few parents might opt out, but I don't think it's the responsibility of all the other children to wait for that to be sorted. So as a taxpayer,  as a parent, and as the county's sexual health educator, I would urge you not to spend more time thinking about the few who are perhaps opting out and whether we should foot the bill for that unfortunate decision, but instead to move forward and make sure that as many of our children as we possibly can  are protected from this.
NEXT> Liza Draper: And that's what that curriculum is about. It is not about health at the high school. It is about making sure that our youngest of children are not to something

[9682-271] Liza Draper | Public commenter, Ward 3; TLC Family Resource Center (self-identified  | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: We invite them to be readers as well.
TEXT> Oh, yeah. Oh, stop me there. Thank you. Anyone who wishes to read can read. So we've had,  various readers. So please, if there's some topic that speaks to your heart, if you've got an autistic member of the family and you want to be in on the readings of the girl Who Thought in pictures, sign up.  We've had in fact, we were very fortunate to have Mrs. Berry's daughter, Officer Berry of the Claremont Police Force, read. I could do that for the students at Maple  last week. So thank you very much. We really do look for community members to contribute. The other thing I wanted to do was to make a special invitation to you for something that's coming up later this year. So I'm going to start with Mary and let her pass them along. But the TLC Family Resource Center is also partnering with the Stevens High School GST. GST stands for Gay straight, Trans Alliance. This is a group of students who've been active in the community,  making sure that Stevens is a welcoming place for all, and based on having gone to visit the pride celebrations that take place in other parts of our state, they've decided they wish to organize one here.
NEXT> Liza Draper: So this June, for the first time ever, we will have a pride celebration in Claremont. It's scheduled for the 16th, which is a Saturday. It will be at the

[9682-275] Paul | Public commenter, Ward 2 (first name from Joe Osgood's 'what Paul just | 2018-03-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Anyone else for citizens comments? Name and word please. Ward two.
TEXT> I wasn't going to say a thing tonight, but this last speaker. I can't believe that Claremont, New Hampshire is losing its moral compass. I just can't believe that we're educating our kids to do this kind of stuff. It's totally backwards. If you don't want to go to a transgender meeting, you have to pay for an alternative class. Boy should be the other way around.
NEXT> Unidentified: You're very confused. Thank you sir. Unrelated, I.

[9682-291] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Liza Draper: Right.
TEXT> I'm for all children, even the sixth that might have to pay for their own stuff. I want to know how they're going to do that or their parents are going to do that. And until as as of a respective I just want all the information and I don't feel like all the information has been given to us.
NEXT> Liza Draper: I am quite there, although I think all the information is publicly available on what the law dictates that we do versus what else we could pay for for people

[9682-307] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat' [432, 446] and 'Mrs. B | 2018-03-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: the work that she did in in putting this together, you have a crosswalk because we felt it was important for the board to be able to see on your left what you have or the state requirements for graduation at the high school level.
TEXT> So you see required program areas. It's broken down by a number of courses. And then you see on the right what it is we offer in our program of studies for students to meet those requirements. And as you can see, I think we do a really good job of giving a lot of choice to our students  across the board in all both our core as well as our elective courses, so that students can customize their learning experience as Stevens to, to their interests. And then, as I said, the two sided piece just talks to,  some very minor, some less than minor additions or changes that we've made. And so my request to you tonight is that you would be and this hard copy, we only did a limited number of these hard copies. What we we. Another piece that was driving the agenda was the need in our timeline. Because third week of April, our, program of studies coordinator meets with our consultant, and they build our schedule. So right now, guidance is very busy meeting with the juniors, seniors, freshmen and rising freshmen to get those courses into the computer, into the schedule and get get students to decide what they want to take next year. So we had to be able to give them a program of studies to work off of.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: We had to when we went over to the eighth grade a couple of weeks ago, we had to hand something out to them. So, that's what they're working off

[9682-315] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat' [432, 446] and 'Mrs. B | 2018-03-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: And.
TEXT> You know, if you're not comfortable with voting on this tonight, it doesn't change  our agenda on our end. It doesn't change the way the kids sign up for the courses. It, you know, I'd rather be that you be comfortable with the information and feel comfortable voting on it. If that's two weeks from now, that that's that doesn't change anything for us.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to look at it.

[9682-321] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat' [432, 446] and 'Mrs. B | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: So, so this is just binding to what your courses are and not the A B schedule or the correct.
TEXT> It's just what we offer. What Newport offers, what our tech center offers and so on top of that, once everybody has decided filled out their course selection forms, these guys plug it in in the guidance department. I then get all that information. Charlie builds the schedule, I get the numbers, and then I sit down. And  if if there's 60 kids who have signed up for English, nine general, I know I'm going to have to create three sections of nine general English  that we then lay that all out. We do that for every single course. We give that then to the departments. The departments then, decide who they feel would best teach those different sections we see. Do we have too many sections? Do we have two few. All of that gets played with. If a course has only two students who signed up for it, we don't run that course. Unless it's something like an AP science course. And we've got six kids and we know that that's a chemistry, let's say. And we know that's kind of our average maybe six to to nine kids are going to be in a high level class like that. And we feel it's important to run that for those students. You know that would be different than let's say two students sign up for women in literature.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So that's when we make the decision as to what courses and sections to run or not. So there there may very well be things that are in here that

[9682-334] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat' [432, 446] and 'Mrs. B | 2018-03-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: That gives you.
TEXT> Every single course, Mr. Lacus, that we teach in every single subject matter. And it also shows you what the state requires as far as number of courses. So you can crosswalk all of those things, state requirements. And then what we offer. So it's basically the a la carte menu that our students have when they sit down with their school counselors to choose their schedules.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason.

[9682-366] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the oath responses of the newly elected m | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: Y'all never.
TEXT> Heard me. Well, sorry. Got it. Okay. So my name is. I'm the music teacher at the high school. If you don't know that now, you know that. So back in September, I came to. Well, first of all, congratulations. Half of you are new. So I came to the old board in September, and they approved a trip for this summer to Italy. And 11 students have signed up. So I'm taking 11 of my music students to Italy in July, which is really cool. But they only had ten months to pay for that, so it was about $400 ish a month, which is doable for some people, but not for everybody. So I wanted this trip to be approved sooner so that it would be closer to $200 a month, which is more affordable, and a student can even work a part time job and possibly afford that as well. So that one, we're this summer going to Italy next summer 2019. I've proposed London and Paris, and I've opened it up to all students that have taken a class with me. I don't want I want students I can trust and that know me as a person. I would I just feel more comfortable taking them on a trip.
NEXT> Unidentified: For me, traveling has been a huge part of my learning in life in general. I went on the gap exchange when I was here at Stevens, which was really

[9682-388] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: all do. So you've all seen these? I already parent reports at home. It gives you information on how you can help your student at home with their learning, and what they might be learning at school as well. So first we'll talk about reading.
TEXT> We'll be looking at this data in terms of grade level and Claremont district as a whole. And then the individual schools. This, I think, may be one of the first times, at least in recent history, where we've looked at the individual elementary schools. I think if we're talking about transparency, it's important to represent the data as as transparent as possible. I want us to be cautious, though. This is not an opportunity to point fingers,  you know, and, negatively cast light on the different schools. It's just they all have their own challenges. They all have their own successes. They're all working on different things, and they're all in an opportunity in a in an environment where they can learn from each other and pull on their strengths. So proficiency in reading this is the percent of our students who are proficient in reading, as measured by the I ready assessment. I'm not going to go through each one of these numbers. I'm going to show you many slides tonight that have lots of numbers on them. I will send this to you so you can digest it more later if you choose to. But just as a general glance, you can kind of get a sense of what's going on.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: That was the overall look, we'll dig deeper now, and I want to talk about a cohort, because this is a little confusing to some people. The data we're going

[9682-391] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> So when you look at this. You can see that for Claremont in, in first grade, for instance, this year in January, 50% of our students were proficient in reading.  In September, only 13% of our students were proficient in reading. Second grade, 47% of our students were proficient in reading. In January of 2018. Those same students, only 44% of them were proficient last year at this time. And you can look at the differences between the, individual buildings, but the yellow columns on the left or the overall performance levels. What I highlighted in blue is the the cohorts of kids, those groups of kids who actually are more proficient this year than they were last year. So what that means is we are closing the gap for those groups of students. So everywhere where you see a blue highlight, first grade across the board, second grade almost everywhere, third grade across the board. What that means is that group of students, more of those students are proficient now than they were last year. So we are closing those learning gaps for them and increasing the number of students we have who are proficient.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: This is where Joe is good and Paula, cars are going to be paying attention because we made a significant investment in the Reading Wonders program a few years ago.

[9682-392] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: third grade across the board. What that means is that group of students, more of those students are proficient now than they were last year. So we are closing those learning gaps for them and increasing the number of students we have who are proficient.
TEXT> This is where Joe is good and Paula, cars are going to be paying attention because we made a significant investment in the Reading Wonders program a few years ago. Taxpayer dollars spent on a Reading Wonders program a few years ago. And you can see pretty clearly how that is paying off in student achievement. So the purple line indicates the investment of taxpayer dollars, the blue indicates the improvement of student achievement. And there's a pretty strong correlation there between the two.
NEXT> Jason Benware: What year was that implemented?

[9682-399] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: For the fourth graders also got that implemented as well right?
TEXT> They have but they haven't had it consistently.  They had something else first. So they haven't had the  benefit of the consistent implementation of that program. We didn't have a clearly articulated curriculum in place prior to this. So this was the implementation of a clearly articulated curriculum, albeit it was a purchase program, and we've enhanced it since then. But we didn't have that clarity in what we wanted our students to know and be able to do prior to that. So our fourth and fifth grade students have, they had different early learning than the rest of the group.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Do. We have last year's. I read data on the kids who were in fourth grade, who were in third grade last year. Had they made progress or had they

[9682-400] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Jason' by t | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: enhanced it since then. But we didn't have that clarity in what we wanted our students to know and be able to do prior to that. So our fourth and fifth grade students have, they had different early learning than the rest of the group.
TEXT> Do. We have last year's. I read data on the kids who were in fourth grade, who were in third grade last year. Had they made progress or had they regressed?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Say it.

[9682-414] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: some significant swings on either direction. When you look at the growth here. I mean, so, somebody who, you know, is kind of statistically driven, I look at that and I kind of go, yeah, I want to see next year, in the year after.
TEXT> We do, we absolutely want to look at next year. The year after, we want to look to see how long does this trend continue. Initially, though, was what I'm demonstrating here is that initial indications are that it's making a positive  impact on our students.  And so my hope is that that continues over time, recognizing that there are only two data points here. Absolutely. But if you look at the, interval data points, you'll see a similar patterns. And if you look at our growth data, which I shared a couple of weeks ago, and I have some slides on that at the end of this, just to  share our growth data indicates that this should continue.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's great. So is there any theory on why our fourth graders are they are they are. And with trending data, the next trend you would think was then they

[9682-434] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: anywhere assessed at the end of that class. So we didn't have that same scenario where you might not be currently taking a course yet. You were assessed on it. So we changed how we did business. That could be reflected in this data here.
TEXT> So needs analysis by grade. The other piece of data that this particular assessment collects is  on these different domains. Where are we the strongest. Where are we the weakest collectively as a group of learners. And we. Found that across the board, first through fifth grade, the percent of our students who struggle the most. The. The highest percent of our students who struggle the most in a particular area, it was vocabulary. So to me, this indicates that there's a lot more work globally across the district that we can do in vocabulary. That doesn't mean  that Jason's child needs work in vocabulary. They may have an area different than vocabulary, one of the other domains that they need to focus more on. But across the board, the our greatest area of focus or need is vocabulary. So when we think of this, we think about the back to school festival, or we think about the kindergarten bags that we give to every incoming kindergartner, building in ways to support families with working on vocabulary at home in those resources that we do, building in ways in our curriculum, emphasizing parts of our curriculum that focus more on vocabulary development would be ways to support this across the board. As we see, the assessment is able to show us areas in our curriculum where we need to spend some more time.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: For six through ten. Is comprehension and informational text particularly likely correlated to vocabulary? But it's around comprehension comprehension of informational texts. So these are your nonfiction texts. Moving on

[9682-453] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Paul: So 70 or above?
TEXT> It doesn't necessarily mean it's 70 or above. It means that within it over here. So this it means that within  the. So the irony diagnostic assessment determines what is considered proficient for a particular grade level based on their  national data set that they have. So they look at students, millions of students from across the entire country, and they determine through that data and some other resources based on standards and such, what is considered proficient for a second grader? I don't know what that particular number is. If the risk, it's a scale score. I don't have the scale score off the top of my head. It's not it can't equate to like 70% accurate. Necessarily. It's not that. It's not that correlated. So there are scale scores that are determined for every grade level.  And so 50% of our students are considered proficient based on that scaled score. I can pull that up after if you'd like. And I can share that. But 50% of our students are proficient based on that scale score for second grade.
NEXT> Paul: So this is the third thing on the scale of the.

[9682-458] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: That this is a level. And then your students fall somewhere on that. You then see on your SAT score. Weird. What percentile or student fell in in that compared to every other kid in the United States, about a 1 to 100 scale? No.
TEXT> I didn't hear what you said. No, it's not international, it's national, and it's based on our, like, weekend selected. It's based off of our New Hampshire standards. So that's reflected in these. But the numbers represent the percent of our students who are proficient as measured by that test. So it would be the percent of our students who are proficient as measured by the SAT or the A, C, t or,  the s back assessment, whatever the assessment is, is the percentage of our students who are considered proficient as measured by that test and that criteria. It's different than the percent of our students who are considered proficient based on the New Hampshire Assessment System. There are research studies that you can say  based on this performance, we can predict this is how they'll a student will perform on the New Hampshire Assessment system,  but they're not the same numbers, because they use different criteria for identifying what proficient is. So we  as we end up triangulating data to have a clear snapshot of our student in terms of supporting their learning. But we defer to  this assessment and this data set to report out generally at the at the district level, because it seems to be as accurate, if not more accurate than anything else we have. It seems to be supported by the other data points that we have to be accurate. And so we. We. Have chosen to rely. On this one.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So again, for math, the blue highlight means that there has been growth for that group of students from last year to this year. So now you see the line

[9682-462] Dan | Elementary school administrator (first name only on record; LeClair: ' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Most recent math two forever.
TEXT> Areas in our all of our curriculum and all of our programs are taught until the last half of the year. And so it's the kids haven't even had exposure to those units. So just, you know, again, that's how we look at it at the school level. But we see our data points. We ask our questions about it, see what's out there. And we we  predicted that I mean, we predicted some other areas because we wouldn't we didn't predict these because we haven't caught them yet. So it's just another factor. When you look at data, we're in the practice of looking at our data and asking questions around it, not making judgments around it and seeing where those questions lead us.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Makes sense. Dan.

[9682-465] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: And that's at the elementary level, right? But we see it carry over into the middle school. So beyond that there's something else going on.
TEXT> And and then algebra think algebra and algebraic thinking. When you measure the students from the same point in time year over year. It should capture all of that. If you're looking at full year cycles, it may just not capture it in the same time frame. But I think it's important to remember also that the test is computer adaptive. So depending on how I answer as an individual student taking that assessment and how the the strength of my answers, I could be a young, you know, second grader and getting very advanced questions. If I'm very strong in math and answering those questions correctly. So it with the students. So additional factors influencing student achievement. These are sort of all of those variables that we haven't necessarily controlled for in this data. So we're really just showing two data points. One lens. It's a global representation. There's lots of factors that could be contributing to this. But we also need to be looking globally and seeing how things are happening and panning out across the district. Class size transient rate. Two years ago, 50% of our fifth graders had been with us from the start. Only half of them. The other half had  moved in somewhere along the way and didn't have the benefit of our instruction for that full six years.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So only 50% of our fifth graders were with us. Attendance. We we have improved attendance. It's a goal for us to continue to work on improving attendance. We are

[9682-466] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: size transient rate. Two years ago, 50% of our fifth graders had been with us from the start. Only half of them. The other half had moved in somewhere along the way and didn't have the benefit of our instruction for that full six years.
TEXT> So only 50% of our fifth graders were with us. Attendance. We we have improved attendance. It's a goal for us to continue to work on improving attendance. We are up over  well over the 90% attendance rate in all of our schools. I think we're over 93 or 94% in all of our schools, but we still have to keep on some students because tenants can impact their ability to learn  behavior. We've had some discussions at this table around behavior. Behavior is certainly a factor impacting students ability to learn, not only for the student displaying those behaviors, but for the other students who are in that learning environment. Title one services. We've made a switch to to shift to early intervention. There's a lot of research out there around the earlier you intervene, the greater payoff for every dollar spent. So for every dollar spent ages 0 to 5, you get a 7 to $17 return on investment. That would indicate that you are more, wise to spend your dollars if you have limited resources early on because you get a greater return on those dollars of investment versus spending them later on, where it's just a 1 to 1 return or or 1 to 2 returns.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so our title one services, we've pulled them away from grades four and five and concentrated them in K through three, because we have a limited pool of resources

[9682-468] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: of those is, is yes. I think that often. First, I'll say that through the recent budget process and through the election process, I think that the the budget and financial health of our district is a very important topic to a lot of people.
TEXT> We don't always come back to say how those dollars spent return in terms of an impact on student learning, it's easy to see dollars spent in a roof. It's easy to see dollar spent in a device sitting in front of you. It's not always as easy to see dollar spent in terms of learning, and this is one area where we could potentially start to see, okay, dollar spent  on curriculum,  on curriculum staff and on programs for learning are potentially having a positive impact or positive return on investment in terms of our student learning. We talked a little bit about growth data. I did a presentation on growth data the last time I think we were together or two times ago. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this, but proficiency is just one look, okay. Growth is the other look.  And I'm going to talk about that more if we can just go right into questions for this one. And then I'll go right into the next one and really get into why growth matters. So any questions on proficiency?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I have one. So one of the other variables and in my mind is student engagement with the assessment itself. And are they are they trying on the test is.

[9682-476] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (addressed 'Pat' [432, 446] and 'Mrs. B | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Stop sign comes up. And it tells us when a student is not, participating and really with diligence on that test.
TEXT> And the rocker can go over and see what's going on. So for some of those students who might just filling in the blanks or rushing through it will stop that measure.
NEXT> Unidentified: That.

[9682-482] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Jason Benware: And to me to have that meaningful data, I probably won't have that meaningful data with her that I will have with my son, who's in kindergarten. But we need to stay with it and not switch to something else. So I think that's important.
TEXT> We need to we need to give it time to work and to be able to show us some trends in order to be able to, to learn more from it. So I've talked a lot about early intervention and we're going to switch to kindergarten. So, as new students enter our kindergarten and we now have full day kindergarten,  we do a kindergarten screening process and we evaluate students on a variety of different measures, including whether or not they can recognize their name. Can they write their name? Can they count to ten? Can they identify any numbers? We do an occupational therapy screening. We do a speech language screening, our vision screening, a comprehensive interview with the family. So lots of things to just gather information on our incoming kindergarten students. When we look at just one of our schools data from this fall. Almost 40% of our students entering kindergarten could not read their own name. 16% of them could not recognize a single uppercase letter, 19% of them could not recognize a lowercase letter, and 19% of them could not count to ten.  And so when you think about  typical development for a five year old, to me that's rather alarming. Based on what I know of typical development for three year olds, for instance, and three year olds can typically recognize their own name, count to ten, have, you know, a fair amount of 1 to 1 correspondence.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And so a number of our students entered into kindergarten, lacking some skills necessary for that foundation. Looking at that same group of kids in January, 17% of them still

[9682-483] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: year old, to me that's rather alarming. Based on what I know of typical development for three year olds, for instance, and three year olds can typically recognize their own name, count to ten, have, you know, a fair amount of 1 to 1 correspondence.
TEXT> And so a number of our students entered into kindergarten, lacking some skills necessary for that foundation. Looking at that same group of kids in January, 17% of them still could recognize fewer than the benchmark of 42 uppercase and lowercase letters. The target for them is over 47 but 17% recognized fewer than 42. 12% of them are still unable to count to 20, and 27% of them could recognize seven or fewer sight words. The target for January is 11 sight words. Sight words are a have the  of. So those are sight words. They could recognize seven or fewer of them..
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Or

[9682-488] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: A thing.
TEXT> Yeah. Early learning skills. And so it measures first sound fluency, nonsense word fluency, things of that nature, those pieces of learning that you need in order to become a reader. And looking at that particular assessment and its composite score. So it took all of the components of what it assesses and gives them sort of an overall grade in the fall. 38, 46 and 52% of our students in kindergarten were considered intensive, meaning intensive support well behind where they should be for the fall. We've made a lot of growth mid-year. We're down to 18% in one school, 22% and 29% in another school. So still essentially a fifth of our students are considered intensive, even though they've now had half a year's worth of instruction. They've made significant growth from where they were. We were about if you average it out, probably about 46% before, and we're at about 21, 22% now,  but we still have a fifth of our kids who are intensive and in need of further intervention in order to just get to grade level. So our problem is we just have a number of our kindergarten students who don't have the foundational skills they need to be successful in first grade and beyond.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: There's a lot of potential impact of this increased number of students who become identified for special education, increased costs for intervention. It's much more costly to intervene later on

[9682-497] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah.
TEXT> I don't off the top of my head. I know district wide. We're about 25%, 24% identified in kindergarten. You don't necessarily see the same number of identifications because. One, you don't want to rush to identify it that young of a child with a learning disability. So I don't know off the top of my head what percent of those students are identified. Some of them are, but some of them are not.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[9682-499] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So the proposed solution, extended year program, fully funded through title one dollars. So we are a district that receives title one funding is state. It's. Not state money. It's federal money that passes through the state. To us. The state uses a formula to allocate and determine how much money every district in the state gets. The mount of money we get is largely correlated to our free and reduced lunch population. And so we have a significant amount of title one dollars. We get we fund teachers with that to support intervention programs in our schools and a variety of other things. And we have some money based on, some programing shifts we were able to do to fully fund a summer program for kindergartners. So what we'd like to do is have three kindergarten classrooms, up to about 18 students in each classroom. In each of those classrooms, we'd have a teacher, a speech language pathologist, and a title one teacher, and they would provide instruction. Selection would be based on a specific criteria. So for this, we're we're looking for those students who have made progress. They are continuing to learn, but they need that extra bump in order to be able to be ready for first grade and, and have that additional six weeks of intensive instruction to close that gap for them and get them where they need to be in order to to to be ready for learning in first grade.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Depending based on preliminary projections on mid-year data, it looks like we will need three classrooms of kindergartners, depending on how the next several months go in that when we

[9682-502] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Corey, can you share how this is different from regular summer school? Absolutely.
TEXT> It's separate from S. Why? So regular summer school is S.Y. extended school year. That is only for students who are identified as special education. It's I think they're changing it to 12 days this year. It's it's part of their individualized education plan. It's mandated they have a specific criteria for that. It is it is for identified students. And this would be for a different population of students. And I'll describe what this program will look like here. And you'll see how it's different from the current extended school year program. Can we wait for questions? Sure. Would that be all right? Because I may have them answered. Okay. So the rationale why like why would we be doing this? Why would we be spending our one dollars on this? As I mentioned, you have a higher likelihood of closing those achievement gaps in the earlier grades. The gaps aren't as big. You have a higher likelihood of closing them, and once you close them, then they are on a different trajectory and maintain that over time. We're not necessarily targeting those students who are significantly behind. If a, if a student is significantly behind, there are other supports in place for students who are so far behind and other ways we can intervene for those students, we're really talking about those students who are on the cusp. They need some additional support in order to be ready and looking at that mid-range group of kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The idea of moving on when ready learning becomes a constant, not the time. So once they already, you know, they're not quite ready at the end of kindergarten to

[9682-504] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: if if a student has been in a in a response to intervention model in the school and they're doing really well in a particular reading program during that intervention time, then we would want to continue that particular work with them over the summer.
TEXT> And so just paying attention to those things, we'd also look at teacher referral homeless status, because that's a criteria for title one that we provide services for our homeless children and youth. So that would that would be a referral criteria  behavior. We because this is a title one funded program, we can set different criteria for attendance and participation. And one of those would be  if a child can't be verbally redirected then this is not the program for them. This is for kids who can be verbally redirected, who are on the cusp, who need an extra boost,  who, we can make a real difference with in a short amount of time to get them ready for first grade and close that gap. For title when we're required to use a rank order selection criteria so the different data points would be entered into a grid. It's actually an  Excel spreadsheet. And then kids are ranked based on their performance on those different areas and then selected from the top to the bottom. Each of the different areas get a weighted priority. So for instance, if you're if you're identified as homeless, that would be automatic, but other factors would have a different weight to them. That's how title one requires it to be done. So that's not a  quarry is just making this up criteria. But that's the rank order that we follow based on what the title one criteria are.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The instructional focus won't be broad. It's not going to be, all of the specials. It's not going to be all, you know, deep dive into lots of different content

[9682-506] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: that week. It end that first week of August. That would be a typical instructional day, 830 to 3, and the teacher day would not include a period during that time. Their prep period would be after that, they'd clearly get their 30 minute lunch.
TEXT> But it's a it's a different focus. It's a different dynamic. So it's really instructional heavy. We would provide lunch with the community lunch program that has been offered in our community for two years now.  They  will have a site at we plan to do this at dinner, so they will have a site at dinner, and that lunch will be provided to students. Snacks will be funded through title one. We will provide transportation for students across the district. There won't be any costs for families, and families will get a book for their child each week to complete a reading, log on and have activities to do with them at home, but promote that love of reading outside of school. There's also going to be some parent expectations. The first being that we can't teach your child if they're not present. So for those children who meet the selection criteria, their parents will literally have to sign a contract to say yes, they will be there. They will be there regularly. If there's some sort of medical emergency, obviously we can understand that. But it's not. Take a week's vacation in the middle of this and, go do whatever it's you're making a six week commitment to have your child here and learning for this period of time, asking them to attend one parent session.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It can we we plan to have a variety of topics for them to engage with. It could be strategies to engage your child with reading at home, or it

[9682-507] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: can understand that. But it's not. Take a week's vacation in the middle of this and, go do whatever it's you're making a six week commitment to have your child here and learning for this period of time, asking them to attend one parent session.
TEXT> It can we we plan to  have a variety of topics for them to engage with. It could be strategies to engage your child with reading at home, or it could be ways to help them, Increase their math fluency.  We haven't fleshed that out yet, but we will be offering some sort of parent learning opportunities and expect them to attend at least one of those, sign and monitor reading log daily. There will be an expectation to have reading outside of this program, and the parents being part of that process and indicating that they have completed that and then understand and agree to the behavior criteria. Again, we we have talked a lot at this board about behavior impacting learning. If we're going to take the time to invest in summer, we really need to be cognizant of behaviors not being a factor. And so the idea of children need to be able to be verbally redirected to be able to participate in the program. Ultimately, the goal is for students to be ready for first grade at the end of this period of time, to have helped them close that gap and have those foundational skills necessary to be successful. For those students who potentially aren't ready at that time, then we need to talk about a few different options, and we haven't fleshed that out yet.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: One could be they need to be referred, but for special education services, one could be that they need to be retained and repeat another year of kindergarten. One could

[9682-510] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, newly sworn in (recognized 'Steve' [774 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Steve.
TEXT> I have just a couple questions. Sure. The first one is, is would there be a way to implement this with by doing pretest like we do for them to go into kindergarten, but would it make a wiser decision to implement this pre going into kindergarten, due to the fact that the majority of the students are pretty much on par, and there's a few that are lagging. If we could intervene earlier and get them on par, we're not losing instructional time for the majority.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yeah, I think that's a really great point and something that we've talked about. At this point, the only challenge with that is identifying who those kids are.

[9682-511] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: this pre going into kindergarten, due to the fact that the majority of the students are pretty much on par, and there's a few that are lagging. If we could intervene earlier and get them on par, we're not losing instructional time for the majority.
TEXT> Yeah, I think that's a really great point and something that we've talked about. At this point, the only challenge with that is identifying who those kids are.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Do we do pre-K assessments?

[9682-513] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: Do we do pre-K assessments?
TEXT> When students come to register is when we know they exist. Sometimes we know they exist because they've gone through a child find process and they're in the, they're in ours  preschool here. Those numbers are growing. So we're getting a better handle on who those children are prior to kindergarten. But that has been a challenge for us to identify who those are. I think that this would be a pilot, a first go. And we we have talked about that and we'll continue to talk about that, because I think that's another way to tackle this problem for sure.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Yeah. I mean, it just seems wiser to get people up to par with the majority earlier.

[9682-530] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: And what would be the reasoning?
TEXT> The reason title one could be used to tutor is if you developed a title one tutoring program that you had the in the selection criteria established for, and you, you chose to create that program to tutor after school or outside of school using title one dollars. And you've gone through and identified all of those students.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I think it's different because title one has a set criteria and how they can utilize their services and their people, and that's what makes it different from like a

[9682-534] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Cory LeClair: You could choose to use title one dollars and create an after school or outside of school tutoring program. You could okay.
TEXT> And then I guess  the other one was, You have the children's center going on now here at this, which is from 3 to 5, correct?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: That's the preschool.

[9682-546] Cory LeClair | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'Other questions for Corey' [6 | 2018-03-21
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Okay.
TEXT> Stephen was asking was what about a younger age bracket? And it's not something that I'm speaking of for this summer. I know preschool plans to have a version of some summer programing for their students to continue. But for future discussion, we would look at entering kindergartners.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Right? Because I kind of thought that was part of it. I guess I was misunderstood.

[9682-659] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Measurement.
TEXT> Determine among us what are our priorities going to be? Because we heard, I think when, when when people are electioneering, you know, they're  this is what I believe in. This is what I would like to address. I'd like to hear that. I'd like to know what your priorities are. And I think everyone would like to hear what each other's priorities are. In my mind, number one is funding. You know, we've got to we've got to come up with a way to to create a sustainable educational experience for our kids without crippling the taxpayer. So how do we do that? What? And come up with a plan, not necessarily, say, Middleton cut taxes. We have to have a plan. And so I think that that's that's one thing. That's my thing. And I think some of you have other things. So I'd like to get together not. Not here, not here. But again, a regular meeting that we would have to warn, but it probably would be a Saturday morning. And I'll bring the coffee and the donuts and get together and, not too early.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Yes.

[9682-845] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair by voice vote [44]; run | 2018-03-21
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: That's why the whole things italicized.
TEXT> That's all I had on j I CD, but I felt that it was important the clarification on where the kids were going.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: I'd like to have some clarification on what what the offense of fences are when you're using ten days.

[9682-938] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Michel' [151] and 'Michelle' | 2018-03-21
PREV> Unidentified: Little bit.
TEXT> I don't want to take them away from the kids.
NEXT> Josh Malloy: But something I don't think it's ever come up as a question. At least as long as I've been here, it hasn't been something that's been asked for. So.

[9711-68] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: any of them that made the German students and their hosts, their teachers and me feel very, very welcome. So thank you. Claremont Fire, Claremont Police and City Hall. Thank you. Okay. Superintendents report. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I have the the flier.
TEXT> For mutually assured destruction. I'd like to pass it around to the board.  As you can see, there are some great pictures in the back, but it also gives you an overview of the five, four different performances and sort of layout of of the play. It was a wonderful, wonderful, dinner theater event and certainly a credit to Stevens High School and senior class. I shared with you last week, last month, rather an email regarding,  working in collaboration with Valley Regional Hospital to bring  forth a  athletic trainer. And we are in the process of finalizing  a contract working with Valley Regional Hospital. I will tell you that. It is. Bally Regional Hospital is a real partner of the Claremont School District. Valley Regional Hospital has been by our side in many different cases, whether it deals with kindergarten registration right up to assisting our student athletes.  Though we will not have a full time athletic trainer,  we will have. An athletic trainer that we hope will be at least three days a week. And right now, we're working in collaboration with the Valley Regional Hospital through Doug and Tricia Berry, to identify the maximum times, the times where the athletic trainer would be needed most during the spring. And if all goes as planned, that's going to start May 1st.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Okay, so, on March 27th, a gentleman, a resident had sent me an email concerned about the taping, and I responded to him and copied all of you as a,

[9711-69] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: now, we're working in collaboration with the Valley Regional Hospital through Doug and Tricia Berry, to identify the maximum times, the times where the athletic trainer would be needed most during the spring. And if all goes as planned, that's going to start May 1st.
TEXT> Okay, so, on March 27th, a gentleman, a resident had sent me an email concerned about the taping, and I responded to him and copied all of you as a, as an update. So,  the contract is not yet finalized, but I just want to shout out about  great thanks to Peter Wright, CEO and the Valley Regional Hospital staff. Through their  cooperation, we're going to have the assistance of a doctor of Physical therapy who is volunteering his time. And we're going to be having the assistance of a licensed athletic trainer.  And that wouldn't be possible without the efforts of Valley Regional Hospital. So  I just want to underline and emphasize,  their contributions to the wellness of our student body. I also wish to share with you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That.

[9711-72] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: obtain hours and our app creation and over site of RFP process and study the possibility of consortium of the surrounding school districts to be involved in the process. Which means instead of having a Claremont School District Transportation Department, could we join other districts?
TEXT> Could we? And there'll be a feasibility study with that. So there's nothing more important than the safety of our of our students and the wellness of our students. But it also,  I think, being proactive to  give yourself a checkup and for  the opportunity to see if we can maximize or make improvements that will be enhanced safety and hopefully decrease in costs. So stay tuned for that. I also want to share with you, as you know,  be tomorrow the Director of Special Education Search Committee meets  and begins the process of identifying the next Director of Special Education, Saw six. And also in the next few days, we're going to also be starting a principal search for the principal of Claremont Middle School, with Paulette Fitzgerald  accepting a contract or position, I should say,  from  the Claremont. Excuse me. The corner. Excuse me. The Concord School District.  I do not have a letter of resignation for you this evening because Mrs. Fitzgerald is still working out the details of our contract with Concord. But she has accepted the position, but certainly should not give me a letter of resignation until she has a signed contract. This process of director of special education search and principal search can be expensive.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: If we hire a consulting firm, it can be anywhere from 3 to $5000 to have an outside organization come in and do this work for us. I'm pleased to

[9711-331] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: I would hope so. Okay.
TEXT> I'm more concerned about the language part where it's just the student discipline. It's student and staff because our bus drivers, you know, if they're swearing at our kids. I've heard complaints from parents about that over time. And it just if we eventually go there, I think we should have everything bold right there in front of everybody's face. And I thought that's how we agreed to amend it during the meeting.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So how do we address that? Will it be amended to what we agreed to at the meeting, or how.

[9711-379] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: If I may, Frank. Jason, I think that's a question for a lawyer. I don't know, I be uncomfortable answering that because, I don't know the answer.
TEXT> And I think that to go back to Frank's original question, which was, what are the legalities as far as civil rights for the students, should we choose to change the policy? So that might be a good thing to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Figure out.

[9711-451] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2018-04-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: and I wrote it down so I wouldn't forget to ask you, how does the Stevens High School diploma standards line up with the college entrance requirements? Because I kind of started comparing a little bit, but I don't fully understand all of that. So.
TEXT> Sure.  So technically. A Stevens student has three options.  Every student in the state of New Hampshire has the minimum 20 credit diploma. That's the minimum required by the state of New Hampshire to get a high school diploma. We don't necessarily advertise that track. We don't promote it. It is the right thing for some of our students. We the other two tracks are the 23 credit diploma and the 27 credit diploma with distinction, the 27 credit diploma with distinction and 27 credits is pretty up there compared to a lot of other high schools. It's a pretty high number in comparison, to some other schools, although some have 32 and 28, 27. And why 27? Because what we did was we  aligned that with the New Hampshire State Scholars Program. So if you  as a student say, I want to be on that 27 credit track, we have  the courses that you see in that track on pages three and 4 or 4 and five line up directly with New Hampshire State Scholars and New Hampshire State Scholars lines up directly with college entrance requirements. So a kid coming out of Stevens with that.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: The 27.

[9711-453] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2018-04-04
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: The 27.
TEXT> With the 27 knows that they are going to be competitive to get into virtually any college in the country. That's the guarantee we're giving them. If you do well  and you take these courses, the three languages, these sciences, these maths, that you will have put yourself in a very eligible position and competitive position to get into any college, let alone a community college or state college or, you know, any two year institution. So that's why we created it the way we did, so that it was a complete crosswalk with New Hampshire state scholars. Now, having said that, many of our students graduate with the 23 credit diploma and also get into very good schools as well. But we we took the highest demand, those three years of language,  those high level science and math courses, so that students knew if that, if they followed that, that there were there wouldn't be colleges that would say you're lacking something in order to get into our campus.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. And can you explain? Thank you. And can you explain more on what happens to the kiddos with the the that go with the 20 credit?

[9711-461] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2018-04-04
PREV> Cory LeClair: Okay. Right.
TEXT> And sometimes, you know, sometimes life goes sideways for some of our students and they'll, they'll start on a 27 or a 23 and things happen. And then they determine, you know, in working with their school counselors, with administration that  I,  I'm going to be fine with the 20. And sometimes we work with adult ed to say, you know, getting those 20 credits even within Stevens is going to be a struggle. So we work with Amy Hood and with Adele dead to combine classes to meet that 20 credit. So we try to create as much flexibility so that the maximum number of our students can be complete.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And opportunities for the kiddos whose life does go sideways a little bit, would there still be opportunities created for them to be able to shoot for the 27?

[9711-470] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: year's graduating class, did graduate with a 27 credit diploma. And a significantly smaller amount had the 20. So if you take 42 and you take I'm just throwing out some numbers like maybe 5% with the 20, then your balance is your 23 credit.
TEXT> Well that's great. I mean, it's good to know that our that's kind of where I that that was more of a, you know, I want to see that our students are doing well and seeing those numbers. That makes me happy.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Years ago Steve, we I think I was an administrator and came to the board with the 20 credit diploma. And, the board at that time was reluctant to implement

[9711-501] Hilary Walsh | Teacher, Stevens High School / CTE center, ICT and digital marketing ( | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Being.
TEXT> Now taught in Intro to Computers. And Career Readiness, which is taught. Here at the CTE center with Jim Galla, as well as I teach it up there. And then I also teach digital marketing and desktop publishing, but I make sure they have that foundation before we start the class, because not all the kids get it.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: And QuickBooks and all of that QuickBooks.

[9711-513] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member (cluster also carries public commenter K | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> Really specifically looked for  I had a list so great. And that's for the student that either ends up as a secretary.
NEXT> Unidentified: Of.

[9711-527] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: I.
TEXT> I have a question about something. When I last meeting, I had asked to have something moved ahead. It was it wasn't the code of ethics. It was about,  with Lisa Draper on the children in the sexual time.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Letter d.

[9711-674] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Unidentified: Oh. I'm sorry.
TEXT> So, before you in your packet is a memo dated April 4th, and this memo was put in place in response to your request for additional information during the March 21st meeting. Through a recent amendment to an RSA school district are required to adopt a policy allowing for the exception to objectionable, objectionable course material, meaning parents have the right to ask that the school district not expose their son or daughter to material that they consider objectionable. And so to comply with this, we establish the policy of actually a revised policy policy. I am now. As a result of the Youth Risk Behavior Survey that we've been implementing for several years, it became very clear that we needed to provide opportunities for elementary school students in the focus of dealing with child abuse, at greater awareness of prevention of child abuse. And so there were two programs care for kids for grade children in second grade and We Care program children in third grade through fifth grade. This was offered to parents. We had present opportunity for parents to attend the presentation in February. Information was brought home before February vacation and then emailed to all parents on the second page of this. And by the way, parents were told then the offering the opportunity to opt out. On page two of this memo, there's an overview of the health curriculum and the elementary school. You can see the sexual abuse prevention lessons for children.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: This is the first year this program has been offered. This is not required by law. This is not students do not have to take this program. So if a

[9711-676] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: for five health credit, as well as a health seminar offered. Now, with the exception of the high school health, health education is not a requirement, but it is a requirement for high school students in New Hampshire to graduate. So what I have done.
TEXT> Basically, is to take our two current policies and made some recommended revisions. With the exception of high school health, education is not a requirement. So I made some revisions. And these revisions on policy I am and I am are are noted by italicized underlying font. But I want to emphasize something to you. You've heard me talk about the Youth Risk Behavior survey. We have been participating in this for several years. It basically is a survey that allows students to respond to certain behaviors that they're involved with, and that over time, this this data has been very helpful in understanding behaviors that result in unintentional intentional injuries, tobacco use,  alcohol and drug use, sexual behaviors that result in infection or sexually transmitted diseases, unintended pregnancies, and also dietary behaviors as well as physical activity. And this data from this Youth Risk Behavior Survey. I'm on page four now  allows us to measure is our curriculum properly addressing the needs of our student population. And I want to emphasize to you that during the 1415 school year, I was involved with a actually, that's wrong during the 1516 school year involving staff and parents. There was a a youth risk behavior feasibility study. And that study basically allowed us to review the youth surveys and then to identify how are we meeting  and how are we addressing the needs of our students from this survey?
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: And because of funding issues, we did not make any progress other than the implementation of a condom policy that went into a place approved by the school board. So

[9711-729] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-04-04
PREV> Jason Benware: So essentially what you just determined was since the high school is the only place that's really affected by any money anyway, and nobody's opted out, it's kind of a moot point, right?
TEXT> Well, if you're right, if Jason if I may, Frank, if a high school parent, parent of high school student wishes their son or daughter to be opted out, they'll be an alternative that has to meet the requirements. But there will be no financial obligation for the student or the parents.
NEXT> Michelle Pierce: Perfect. And that was what the concern was last, last time.

[9715-243] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-03-29
PREV> Sara Lowe: That would make sense. Okay. Anything else on the essay budget? Just for your. The next item is SA six academic achievement goals.
TEXT> I just wanted to now that we have a new saw. Six,  the, the six achievement goals are achievement goals that the administration and faculty and unity and throughout Claremont focus on. These were established  by the saw six board a few years ago. Recommended by the administration. And it's our way of being able to measure  the progress of our students and especially their growth, versus wait for a state mandated assessment that many times can come somewhat later. You've heard Corey LeClaire make presentations about I ready and growth. That's what we're talking about. Unity is going to have two presentations this spring. As well.  And and this drives these are a multi year five year goals. And it drives where we want to end up. Even if you'll notice even at the high school level for Steven's high school our goal regarding attendance we are exceeding that. But it's going to be a multi-year goal as well as the goal of students having opportunities and being aware to have post-high school educational experiences, whether that be vocational, whether it be training, whether that be a junior college college. We're not pushing students into college, but we do want students to understand that in this day and age, a high school education is inadequate, as measured by the academic.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: Rather the the financial opportunities for young adults going into today's world with just a high school education, perhaps a few decades ago, it was fine. Several decades ago, it

[9715-258] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-03-29
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> And if I can go forward, you know, when we talk about evaluating and we talk about supervising you, you have to start off the school year with goals. And those goals need to be mutually agreed to. And so these two pages, two 2017 2018 principles, valuation goals. These are based on strategic planning. And I we meet with the building principals Unity and Claremont twice a month. And I meet with each principal once a month. And we have discussions regarding how they are they as instructional leaders and they, their faculty and students are progressing with these goals involving curriculum, instruction, assessment as well as facilities, academic structure and learning environments, as well as engaging community resources. And you have public we have public presentations regarding the curriculum, instruction and assessments such as I ready and we'll be having future discussions when it comes to budget and in the future when we discuss facilities, academic structure and learning environment. Because just because we have our structure right now and a number of schools, and the great configuration doesn't mean we're locked into that. And can we be more efficient? And as stewards of the taxpayers dollars, can we make adjustments that would benefit students and also a benefit to the taxpayer? So  we are in this process of continuously evaluating, and I anticipate that there'll be some discussion for fiscal year 20, especially in Claremont, in regard to facilities and academic structure.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: So that's what this is about. And it's it's their goals, their focal points. They were developed over a year and a half. Representatives from the Claremont community with a

[9715-367] Jason Benware | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) | 2018-03-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: Yeah, I know I was going to say they've been waiting for quite a while.
TEXT> It's fine. I just wanted to kind of elaborate on that, that so I was fortunate I wouldn't I toured the high school the other day and it was great, but I did when I read the sort of welcome packet, I guess you'd say. One of the things that was sort of made clear in there was there was a fine line between us being interested and going and checking out the schools and showing up there on an official capacity almost, you know, so you can't be like, well, I'm here to inspect your school. You can't be a you can't be representing the whole board when you go do that. It's a it's it needs to be a, it needs to be a personal interest. And it's only beyond that. It's not like you're I'm here to spy on people. I'm here to see what's going on. It's more to get  a broad idea as to how our schools look, and it's kind of nice to see what we have available to our students. But that's kind of you have to kind of walk walk that line.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: As I said, it was freely offered up just in conversation.

[9715-546] Mary Woodman | Recording secretary, SAU 6 Board (takes roll) | 2018-03-29
PREV> Sara Lowe: nothing has happened in the summer. And, and so we have to, we do, we need to set some dates and have this be, you know, a consistent meeting time that everybody honors and respects and uses as a way to affect, you know, ultimately.
TEXT> The kids.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And how do we do that.

[9715-694] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> I wasn't in any of the Claremont meetings, and I wasn't part of your process. But I  do want to make sure that I know that we're ordering some of these books, but I do want to make sure that  everyone on all sides has a clear understanding of the superintendent's role and the board's roles in the budget process. And that and I will share. We had some struggles with this,  in Claremont, not with the superintendent, but in that, you know, sometimes board members want to act in the best interest of taxpayers, and that the role of of being on the board is to be acting in the best interest of and helping the students meet their roles. So and I know I had shared, with you, Frank, the the document that has the piece. And I know that we're each talking about this in our separate boards around, you know, roles and expectations and ethics and those pieces. And I think that it's really important for everyone to be on the same page and understand and know with all of those are, because it can get really challenging when you're on a board.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: That's job. And goal is to support academic achievement and the education of children. And then you have the pressures of needing or having people who are taxpayers and whatnot

[9715-702] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2018-03-29
PREV> Unidentified: So, you know.
TEXT> So you know that I also have the opportunity to express myself. And it isn't in the best interest of the Claremont School District in what our responsibilities are to do it tonight versus where we were a year ago, and some of the things that was going on and by is it in our best interest to do this? Because I'm not going to sit here and have things said to me. That are based on an opinion, but and just absorb it, I will come back not in defense, but with my understanding of school law and how things should be done. So do we want to do that tonight versus bring on the New Hampshire School Board Association, recalibrate next month. Recalibrate with the reference that you have in front of you and rebuild versus go back. Now.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's like a threat to say.

[9715-714] Michelle Pierce | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont); elected SAU 6 treasurer at this meetin | 2018-03-29
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: Can you be specific, please?
TEXT> I can at the moment because I don't have those in front of me. What what I'm trying to say is, is that I hear you saying, let's just forget about all of that and move forward. However, there is some pretty damning stuff that facts that, I believe should be warranted to your, evaluation. I also believe that, as a school board, I'm not finished as a school board. I feel that, our job is to represent the children and the community and the taxpayers all the way around that.
NEXT> Sara Lowe: So I'm going to say, as the chair of this board, then you need to go back and reread the roles of being on the school board, because the roles

[9715-715] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Michelle Pierce: that, I believe should be warranted to your, evaluation. I also believe that, as a school board, I'm not finished as a school board. I feel that, our job is to represent the children and the community and the taxpayers all the way around that.
TEXT> So I'm going to say, as the chair of this board, then you need to go back and reread the roles of being on the school board, because the roles of being on the school board are very, very and the ethics are very, very specific  that your job is to support the  achievement of the students and that the superintendents role is to provide you with a budget that he believes will allow the district to adequately meet all of the goals and achievement standards that need that are set by the federal government, the state and the community. And so that's his role. And you and I am not I was not part of your meeting. I have not watched any of I do not know. But I will say that  it sounds right now to me like you wanted him to cut more things, and maybe he came back and said, this is the best that we.
NEXT> Unidentified: Can do.

[9715-728] Sara Lowe | SAU 6 Board Chair; Unity School Board Chair (self-identified [7]; re-e | 2018-03-29
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: like a mess to me. I feel like, some of us came into a mess and it's time to just start getting it straightened out and moving on. But I don't want to be participating in a mess anymore. I would like to see some.
TEXT> And I think that's a piece. I think that there is a place where, when we live in a community that is struggling  financially, a lot of time can be spent and allocated on just thinking about the budget because it's a high anxiety discussion and then we lose time. And I'm not saying that the time on the budget is not important, but then the allocation of time to can we please talk about achievement and students and what we want to be doing for the students and what we want to be doing to connect the community and the and everyone together to be a school community that's achieving and succeeding? It is has gotten lost at least since I have been on the board. And, and that's sort of been one of my goals when I took over being the chair in unity. And here was to like, can we regroup and get back to talking about the reason that I joined the school board, which was about positively impacting the the education  and social emotional support of our children.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: In all of our defense. As far as some of them, it was we were at a disadvantage when Cornish was still part of the board and we were trying

[9734-12] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont; presiding co-chair of the joint session (add | 2018-04-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> Okay. Yes. I have a few announcements. Mr. Putnam from healthy Vibrant Claremont would like to have been here tonight to make this announcement himself, but he's attending a meeting in Newport. So his message is. Or his announcement is a task force has recently been established from healthy, vibrant Claremont to study the lead paint and poisoning laws. Our purpose is to completely understand the impacts this law will have on every entity within our community, identify solutions and opportunities, and report this to the entire community. We wish to host a community conversation through New Hampshire, listens in the near future, provide reports to the community at large, the city Council, school board, and other boards and commissions. April is Child Abuse prevention month.  We had invited the executive director of TLC to speak at tonight's meeting, but her schedule would not allow it. She did speak about Child Abuse Prevention Month at our last council meeting, which was last week, and brought pinwheel pinwheels, which are the national symbol for a great childhood. So if you see them in the community. It is part of the national effort to raise awareness of the need to prevent child abuse. As you all know by now, a community wide cleanup effort is underway.  While residents may be focusing their cleanup efforts on their immediate surroundings, there are also several several projects scheduled on April 21st.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: The Conservation Commission will be at Ashley's Boat Landing from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m.. They would be happy to have a few extra hands. Also that same day, residents

[9734-16] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: it was a tough it was a tough town in some ways to grow up in. But what made it at what made it not so tough and what made me certainly be come the strong and I think fairly resilient person that I am.
TEXT> Where the abundant number of positive youth adult role models that there were in town. So while some people, you know, the jobs were hard to come by, but great role models certainly weren't, and  a lot of them  certainly were transformational in the education,  you know, that I received at Stevens High School, but also in the outdoor challenges that I got to experience through great program called Project Challenge, which I'm sure if anybody here grew up in town or knows anybody who grew up in town,  you're well aware of that program. So the things that I learned in school, that I learned through positive adult mentors here in town, and also  through the Outdoor Challenges Project Challenge, where you were called upon,  often be in a difficult situation and have to work with a group of others to come up to a solution. You had to,  decide for yourself when you were on that rope that yes, you indeed could make it to the top. And then, yes, you could indeed make it all the way back down. And certainly if you can do that, if you can ice climb up a mountain when you're freezing with, you know, people yelling things and ice falling down on your head, certainly you can finish a paper, you can do a tough project at work, you can learn to work with other people, no matter how like or how different you are.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: And really, that's what scouting is about. And scouting today. And I say scouting, not boy scouting, because, I think the term scouting really encompasses it a lot better. There

[9734-18] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: and then doing pack activities together. That's family scouting. Boy Scouts is a single gender program for boys age about 11. So just before they like fifth grade, sixth grade through 12th grade to age 18, where they can earn anybody here an Eagle Scout.
TEXT> So Eagle Scout is the only 4% of scouts in the country achieve  Eagle. So you know, if  if you didn't make it that far, you are not alone.  The and that program right now is single gender. In the fall of 2019,  there'll be a parallel girls program to that. So girls can also earn the Eagle Scout award. So that was a pretty significant membership change in the last year. And then we also have venturing which is coed outdoor leadership program, and then exploring, which is a workforce development program  where that opens up local businesses to youth fire departments, police departments, hospitals, dog groomer, whatever business you can think of, you can have an exploring post at one of those. And we also have exploring clubs and at middle school and entry elementary school level that also combine character and career leadership. But the four things that we concentrate on, no matter where the program  is, no matter what program it is in scouting,  our youth and families, character and leadership, workforce development and healthy lifestyles, those are really the four pillars of scouting in New Hampshire and in New Hampshire.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: We serve over 11,000 Scouts and with the help of 5000 adult volunteers. So we have a small staff in Manchester that covers the whole state. We have staff who

[9734-19] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: that we concentrate on, no matter where the program is, no matter what program it is in scouting, our youth and families, character and leadership, workforce development and healthy lifestyles, those are really the four pillars of scouting in New Hampshire and in New Hampshire.
TEXT> We serve over 11,000 Scouts and with the help of 5000  adult volunteers. So  we have a small staff in Manchester that covers the whole state. We have  staff who concentrate on different areas. We have a brand new, I'm happy to say. Tom Charlton is the new district executive who will be covering  the Senate district, which includes Claremont. So,  the poor guy has to get the well, Claremont comes first. Certainly for me. So,  and everybody's agreed that I can say that. So so he's he'll come to you all first.  And you should meet him probably in the next month. He'll be in town and you'll get an opportunity to meet him. But those four pillars, youth and families, really? Again, you know, we're focused on engaging youth and families to participate in activities not just for the youth, but the family as well. And they are connecting youth to community, connecting them  to help create a family stronger unit. And also,  really working to strengthen the connection between community character, service,  all of the things that you kind of know and love about scouting. Also,  in the area of character and leadership development, scouting is a character and leadership program. It's proven.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: I've got some, a handout that tells you, you know, how does scouting work? How does it build character? It's a tough study that was done that really proves, that

[9734-20] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: stronger unit. And also, really working to strengthen the connection between community character, service, all of the things that you kind of know and love about scouting. Also, in the area of character and leadership development, scouting is a character and leadership program. It's proven.
TEXT> I've got some,  a handout that tells you, you know, how does scouting work? How does it build character? It's a tough study that was done that really proves,  that scouting really does  have a positive impact on building character, higher self expectations for youth  and helping them choose right over wrong, and also does develop strong leadership skills so that not only our youth feeling great about what they're doing, they also learn how to work with the team and how to lead a team. And an Eagle Scout project is a perfect, a perfect example of that. And  I'm not sure if Alex is going to join us tonight, but he had an Eagle Scout project where not only was he required to help do the project, but he also had to gather resources. He wrote grants to get money to support his project,  and got others to help and take the get the many hands together it would take to complete a project. So  the other areas, workforce development and healthy living are certainly,  much more relevant today than we might have ever thought in our communities. So workforce development is an area where scouting through the exploring program has been working hard for the last,  let's see, I think it's 40 almost. It's actually 50 years old  this year. Next year, the program is 50 years old.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: And again, that combining of local businesses and youth who are interested in those kinds of careers. And you think of, you know, our town, Claremont, how many I know

[9734-21] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: thought in our communities. So workforce development is an area where scouting through the exploring program has been working hard for the last, let's see, I think it's 40 almost. It's actually 50 years old this year. Next year, the program is 50 years old.
TEXT> And again, that combining of local businesses and youth who are interested in those kinds of careers. And you think of, you know, our town,  Claremont, how many I know many of the people that I graduated with are firemen in town or firefighters, I should say, are on the police force. You know, their local teachers, their local business owners and for the youth in our community to be able to engage with those local businesses, get experience and then stay in the community, whether it's at Red River,  doing, you know, technology work or it's  in a local becoming a local entrepreneur,  they have the opportunity to do that. And then the merit badge series.  Anybody ever heard of a merit badge? Anybody ever complete one? Okay, so, Frank, I can call on Frank because I know Frank. So, Frank, what was your favorite merit badge?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: God, I'm trying to think that, you know, we're talking,

[9734-29] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Frank Sprague: I only got a couple, so.
TEXT> Boating. Okay, so  in fact, Alex, who is an Eagle Scout, Alex Herzog, is that how you pronounce his last name?  He said that that was his favorite merit badge that he did to was was boating. So, you know, there are 130 different merit badges that Scouts can earn. So every one of those,  while there are some that are concentrate on being a great citizen, like citizen in the community, citizen in the nation,  citizen of the world. There are also many more that are focused on skills and  trades. So welding, boating, automotive repair, I mean, you name it, there's a nuclear science, there's a merit badge for it. So in addition to participating in this character building program, they're also getting an exposure to those trades and then healthy living. The last pillar really is  it's one of the ones that's closest to my heart because I know the power of positive youth development programs  and as a prevention strategy for youth.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: So the more youth are engaged in programs that do build their character, teach them, you know, the values of right and wrong, that take them outdoors and teach them

[9734-30] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: program, they're also getting an exposure to those trades and then healthy living. The last pillar really is it's one of the ones that's closest to my heart because I know the power of positive youth development programs and as a prevention strategy for youth.
TEXT> So the more youth are engaged in programs that do build their character, teach them, you know, the values of right and wrong,  that take them outdoors and teach them skills that really they're going to use their whole life. So in Project Challenge, I learned how to hike a mountain the right way, how to pack a backpack, how to rock climb, how to,  you know, even like biking and cross-country skiing, with the exception of rock climbing, which I haven't done since I had my first baby. All of those things are things that I do today. I taught them to my kids. I do them with my kids. I go,  my son is an almost an Eagle Scout. So we've been doing those things as a family  since my children were small, and I learned them in a positive youth development program. And so for so many kids, those  really vulnerable hours between 3 to 6 every day after school or  on the weekends when there's no one around, it's instilling in them. Instilling in them the ability to make a healthy choice and then to choose healthy activities that are a little better than some of the high risk behaviors they might  otherwise participate in.  Alex was going to be here to talk about his project, but he's not able to join us tonight. So  I just want to talk a little bit about building scouting in Claremont.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: We had a great, good Scout luncheon, Claremont luncheon last week. Carolyn Toll was our honoree. Was very exciting, at the Common Man. So I know several of you were

[9734-31] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: than some of the high risk behaviors they might otherwise participate in. Alex was going to be here to talk about his project, but he's not able to join us tonight. So I just want to talk a little bit about building scouting in Claremont.
TEXT> We had a great,  good Scout luncheon,  Claremont luncheon last week. Carolyn Toll was our honoree. Was very exciting,  at the Common Man. So I know several of you were there, and it was it was exciting to sit at a table and to walk around the room and talk to businesses and community members alike, who all wanted to really make sure that scouting was alive and healthy in Claremont. So with the new district executive that's coming on board specifically for this area, you'll have someone focused 100% of their time on building scouting here in Claremont. Working hard. We've got some great conversations started with Doctor Goodwin and  with Carolyn, and certainly with  Charlene. Mayor Lovett, I should say,  this is what happens when you grow up in a small town like, you know, everybody by their first name. So,  so we've got a lot to look forward to here. And,  I guess since Alex isn't here, I do have these handouts. This is,  this is the summary of the tough study that talks about the impact, the positive impacts of scouting on youth. And it talks about things like,  and actually, I should say Doctor Lerner, the gentleman who authored the study and led the study at Tufts, used to be a professor at Keene State. So if anyone's  ever studied positive youth development.  Doctor Lerner is the guy who literally wrote the book on. It started.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: In Keene from the picture, and he offered that said, I was planned for the day.

[9734-35] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: a lake of these trees. Like, are you sure was still in Manchester? So we have that property as well. And then two really premier Scout camps, all of the kinds of things that you think would be exciting, for camp. Pushback, riding, boating, archery.
TEXT> Try to think there's you just, you name it, anything you'd want in a scout camp. It seems to be at that property. And there are two  I mean, Gilmanton Ironworks. So they're not too far from here. We have scouts from Claremont who come. And,  we certainly would love every scout in Claremont to come and attend one of our, our camping programs. And we provide financial assistance for any youth who needs it. So really, any youth who wants to participate, there shouldn't be a barrier.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Wonderful.

[9734-38] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont; presiding co-chair of the joint session (add | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: Thank you.
TEXT> So are there questions as to why we're having this presentation? Because the reason why, in my opinion, is I know both the school district and the city council spend a lot of time. And discussion the school district, more so than the city council about, you know, youth and how to engage with them in a way that, produces the outcomes that we're all looking for on the city side and the school side. We've spent a lot of time talking about workforce development. I think this is an organization that we could, engage with a lot more as a community. We don't need to create, programs or infrastructure here if it's already available elsewhere. And we can we can develop a partnership. There are. I know,  Miss Tol mentioned exploring posts. I believe they have one at Elliott Hospital, and they had just had one of their explorers go off to med school, and that individual never would have pursued that career had they not had that opportunity. So we as a community have lots of I mean, it's it's the the possibilities are endless. We could establish exploring posts in Claremont. A lot of it will have will a lot of it will be in how well we as individuals, residents, families,  make use of the opportunities. But how we as governing bodies set the stage so that those opportunities exist.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: So I'm glad to hear that there's a new district coordinator. I hope he's going to be coming to Claremont. Yes. And then.

[9734-41] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont; presiding co-chair of the joint session (add | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: His first step.
TEXT> Engaging in some event where members of the community, youth, their families can all participate and start taking advantage. The one thing you didn't mention was there's a jamboree in May.
NEXT> Unidentified: I believe. Oh, yes. Oh, gosh.

[9734-44] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Terry Tolle: You can climb a rock wall, you can meet someone from the National Guard. You can they have camping. They have old school, you know, blacksmithing, you name it. There are over 2500 vendors. And and when I say vendors, it's not people selling stuff.
TEXT> I mean vendors like different organizations, fish and game, anyone and everyone who has something to offer youth across the state will be there tons of exciting activities and  it's reasonable. And youth can sign up if you're not. If they're not currently scouts, that's okay.  Certainly be an opportunity to share with them the exciting things that they could do on a regular basis if they were involved in scouting as well as share. We have over 1000 partners across the state. So the, the ability to to let them share their mission and the things that they're doing as well certainly is a shining moment for us. But we expect over 5000 youth as well as an additional up to, you know, 5 to 600  adults as well, plus all of our staff.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: And and it's my understanding you don't have to stay. You can go down for the day.

[9734-82] Terry Tolle | Head of development, Daniel Webster Council, Boy Scouts of America; pr | 2018-04-24
PREV> Middleton McGoodwin: kindergarten. And it's been very successful. So nothing ventured, nothing gained. So I'm very interested in working with you. I'm sure I'm not going to speak for the school board, but I'm sure if they speak up they would as well because the win win.
TEXT> Right. And and to to that.  Mr.. The and first of all you I mean we could never recreate there's nobody  like less green.  And I'm just I'm going to. Yeah. Just tears. You know, he's just a very, very special man. But venturing  in scouting is I mean, when I discovered venturing, I'm a venturing advisor. Like, this is this is project challenge. This is just, you know, through scouting.  So there are definitely a lot of ways that we could work together and that scouting provides some things like liability insurance,  and access to, the kinds of open spaces and, you know, places that have safe gear and activities that,  it's difficult for a school district to support all of those resources, especially given the, you know, the rising increase in liability insurance. We're national organization.  It's a nominal per youth fee that helps cover that. But, you know, we can translate that across hundreds and hundreds or millions really, of youth across the country. So it's much different than asking a school district to support that. So I look forward to those conversations for sure. And then also in the areas of workforce development, working here with the the technical center and, and businesses in town to help do what we can to, to help serve the youth in the community of Claremont.
NEXT> Terry Tolle: And so since I've been here, I've been back in New Hampshire for six weeks. And I said, well, okay, what are you doing in Claremont? Right. That's my first

[9734-89] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: the areas of our work with regard to sexual assault is with the Child Advocacy Center. So for those of you who may or may not be aware, every child that is suspected to have been sexually abused, either by family or friends, the school.
TEXT> And there's a report that child is scheduled for an interview at the Child Advocacy Center. They have an office here in Claremont,  and it's the it's a forensic interview. It's what we've probably all seen on TV or in the movies. A highly skilled, highly trained interviewer. The police are present. DC f the Division for children, Youth and Families is present and the interviewer  spends time with that child, gaining rapport and then trying to find out what may have happened to this child, the police and DCF, through technology and a window,  get to also  talk to the interviewer and ask their questions as well through the interviewer. While all that is happening turning points network staff are sitting with the  non offending parent or caretaker and providing support and information to them. As you can imagine. What it must be like for a family, for parents whose kids are being interviewed who may have been sexually abused, they have lots of questions, lots of worries, lots of concerns, and so we spend our time letting them know what will happen if there is a disclosure, what it will be like, and working with the criminal justice system, how they can help their child, how we can help them during the entire process.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: And so families will decide for themselves how much service they want from TPM and for how long. We will probably go to the Child Advocacy Center, somewhere between 100

[9734-90] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: concerns, and so we spend our time letting them know what will happen if there is a disclosure, what it will be like, and working with the criminal justice system, how they can help their child, how we can help them during the entire process.
TEXT> And so families will decide for themselves how much service they want from TPM and for how long. We will probably go to the Child Advocacy Center, somewhere between 100 and 150 times every year, working with families whose kids have been suspected of being sexually abused. So it's one area of work that we do and a service that's available to families in the community. Second service and the school board has talked about this at a couple of recent meetings, is the violence prevention education programing that we do in the schools. We have programs available for for grades kindergarten through 12th grade.  And a part of that is sexual violence prevention. So we really work with kids with development and appropriate curricula  to build healthy relationships. And its first and foremost, I think what we want to remember is that it's adults responsibility to protect kids. It's not kids responsibility to protect themselves from predators, right? It is our responsibility to protect kids. But we're not always able to do that either. We can't. We missed a sign. And and and pedophiles and perpetrators are pretty clever.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: So what we want to do is give kids good basic information so that they can at least let us know that something has happened, that they've been approached. Maybe.

[9734-110] Deborah Mostyn | Turning Points Network representative, presenter on Sexual Assault Awa | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: over dishes and, you know, laundry detergent, all those kinds of things are just great donations. If you if people have those, you know, it's we all kind of go through our closets, right? And say, I don't know if I'll ever wear that again.
TEXT> We don't quite give it up the first time, but if we go back and get it again to bring it to changes, or if you really want it to go to a family in the shelter, we will do that as well. Other thing to keep in mind is, you know, the shelter. We have kids in the shelter. It's a 16 bed shelter we can with five bedrooms. And so there can be five moms and 11 kids, and it can be really busy and really loud. And there aren't always 11 kids, but they're often are eight, 9 or 10 kids in the shelter. And they need activities. Right. And they need, so if you have old sports stuff, paying it around or old bikes, those are great that the kids can play with. So anything like that, keeping that in mind. So there are probably a hundred other things that I could add, but I'm not thinking of. But truly, if you have an idea, just give us a call and I should give a yard number. I'll give you our 24 hour crisis line number  so that survivors have that as well. And it's 1-800-639-3130. And our website is WW dot turning points network.org. So you can find us through that as well. So thanks for the question. I was good enough.
NEXT> Unidentified: For you counselor.

[9734-128] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 ('Send it to me and I forward it to the board' [ | 2018-04-24
PREV> Deborah Mostyn: I saw your letter. Yeah, yeah, it was a great letter.
TEXT> Yeah.  I just have to say publicly, it wasn't that long ago I met with one of your clients and a small child living in the shelter. And when you look into the face of that small child,  you, you you could clearly understand.  Because we all have small children in our lives or our children are once small. But when you look into the face of a little child knowing that they're being supported by an organization like you, and their lives are being saved as they rebuild themselves, it is a credit to what you do. Thank you. And so you have to experience that from a personal level and even imagine your own child at one time being in that position, and how an organization like yours can support and stand by them as they recalibrate and get back on their feet. So, so thank you.
NEXT> Deborah Mostyn: Thank you. And I'll pass that on to our network. Thank you.

[9734-290] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair and City Councilor (recognized 'Rebe | 2018-04-24
PREV> Unidentified: Rebecca.
TEXT> I think it's important to. Note that lockdown drills have been happening in this district for a really long time now. And in regard to the shades of Milton, I'm stoked because teachers were putting paper down over their windows and covering things that way. So I'm really happy about the blinds. What I'm wondering is, for the lockdown procedures. I know when I started here a long time ago when we were introducing them, the  protocol was for the teachers and the students to get in the safest spot in their room, you know, hide behind desks or if you have a bathroom in your room, get the kids in the bathroom or things like that. I'm wondering if anybody's researched,  more lately in regard to that protocol, because there's other  information and research that's come out that is showing that that might not be the best idea and it might be a better idea to  try other things. So, I mean, I'm pretty sure we've all seen those that sort of research as well. So I'm wondering if we're looking into maybe changing the protocol for that,  or where we're at with that.
NEXT> Middleton McGoodwin: The, the district attended a year ago, a Homeland security training concord with the support of the Department of Ed. But Rebecca were never done. We're never done fine tuning

[9734-291] Middleton McGoodwin | Superintendent, SAU 6 ('Send it to me and I forward it to the board' [ | 2018-04-24
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: it might be a better idea to try other things. So, I mean, I'm pretty sure we've all seen those that sort of research as well. So I'm wondering if we're looking into maybe changing the protocol for that, or where we're at with that.
TEXT> The, the district attended a year ago, a Homeland security training concord with the support of the Department of Ed. But Rebecca were never done. We're never done fine tuning and revising. I even saw,  I think it was 30 or $40,000.  Looks like a tent. What do you call an Indian tent and, design where there was an intruder. The students and teacher would go into this tent and shut the door and be protected through scene. That. So,  but the point is, we never can have enough security, but but the key is  our staff. And the community is aware we work in partnership with the municipal government  as a team  and also assure the children, because children are sometimes we forget that what's happening in the adult world, children are aware of. And after that tragedy in, in, recently back in,  back in February  where we had the shootings, one of my colleagues was in a school  talking to a principal, and a elementary student came in and looked up at the principal and said, are we going to have a lockdown to be safe? So, so children, children are affected by this as well. And it's and it's how we go about doing it and reassuring them at the same time. But it's if the work in progress will never be finished because we're always fine tuning it.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Okay. Do you have any other.

[9734-316] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont; presiding co-chair of the joint session (add | 2018-04-24
PREV> Charlene Lovett: Finance Committee and to the entire House in general in support of Medicaid expansion, would you, once you have seen the content of that letter, want to sign off as both a school board and superintendent, as well as the city council and city manager?
TEXT> When we went to that roundtable discussion, they had some statistics to share with us. And basically about 913 people in Claremont alone have access Medicaid expansion. And, we've talked about health on a number of issues and how important it is not only to the children who wouldn't be part of Medicaid expansion because it's 19 to 64, but having children go home to families that have access to health care and our healthier because they have access to health care,  I think does impact learning for the students. So if that is something you would like to sign off on, if I am able to draft the letter and then send it, I'll send it to our council clerk for distribution to the city council for your read. And then I, to superintendent for the school board. But basically the House Finance Committee will be meeting, I think, on Thursday. So I have to draft this tomorrow and and get it out tomorrow for you to sign off on. If you're okay with it, then we'll we'll forward that letter to the House Finance Committee through their secretary, whoever that may be, and they'll get it to the the people before they vote.
NEXT> Unidentified: I think that's okay.

[9740-20] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-04-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes, please. Thanks for remembering.
TEXT> You're welcome. So, Stevens High school update  the Stevens High School GST. Group had a big sale last week, and they have so far successfully made $136. Thank you to everyone in the group for bringing treats to sell. And good luck this week because they're continuing it into this week to. The Life Skills Program. Collected a total of $200 to donate to the Sullivan County Humane Society. The original goal was to raise $140, so definitely be proud of themselves. The students sold their homemade dog treats to help this cause. Thank you to the students, teachers, and other staff who made this donation a success. The staff and students. Stevens would like to thank Hannaford Supermarket for their generous donation of $1,000. They donated this money as part of their School Cares program. And thank you so much. We now have a Young Democrats club at Stevens. Eight students participated in the Tire Shaheen 100 Club dinner at the Radisson Hotel in Nashua, New Hampshire on Saturday, April 14th. At the dinner, they were able to meet the senators, Senator Shaheen and Senator Hassan, along with Congresswoman Annie Kuster. The group hopes to send 5 or 6 of them to the Democratic Summit Workshop at the Kennedy Institute in Boston, Massachusetts, on Saturday, May 19th.
NEXT> Lexi Grenier: Sadly, Community Service Day had to be rescheduled to a later date in May due to the awful whether we had on Monday. The. The state science assessments will be

[9740-21] Lexi Grenier | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (chair | 2018-04-18
PREV> Lexi Grenier: the dinner, they were able to meet the senators, Senator Shaheen and Senator Hassan, along with Congresswoman Annie Kuster. The group hopes to send 5 or 6 of them to the Democratic Summit Workshop at the Kennedy Institute in Boston, Massachusetts, on Saturday, May 19th.
TEXT> Sadly, Community Service Day had to be rescheduled to a later date in May due to the awful whether we had on Monday. The. The state science assessments will be given to juniors next week, not next week, probably the week after, Miss Berry said next week. But we have vacation that day, those days, so that's not going to happen. There will be the science assessment will be given to juniors during blocks one, two and flex time in the Stevens High School library. Good luck to all of them. The English department was lucky enough to be able to work with Amanda errands for the third day this year. Amanda Aarons is a writing consultant who helped to give the teachers professional development on how to teach writing to their students easier. A total of 34 students in three Chaperons will be leaving for Washington, D.C. on Saturday, April 21st. They are very excited and cannot wait for some warmer weather. Hopefully and an educational adventure. School board members. Please mark your calendars for the following dates. Tuesday, June 5th is Underclassmen Awards night. Wednesday, June 6th. Okay, you guys got that?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: What time?

[9740-140] Will Phillips | Attorney, New Hampshire School Boards Association; presenter on the Ri | 2018-04-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> So now let's move to slide 24. This is the extent of what we're will really talk about with electronic records or governmental records. So as with any hard copy, the, the pieces that trigger the records components of right to know if the record. So whether it's an email, a digital record or a paper record is created, accepted or obtained by or behalf of any public body or a quorum or majority thereof. So if one board member gets an email  from the outside, that's not a government record. If the entire board gets the email, that is a government record. You haven't had a meeting, because you haven't responded to it. Right. But it's a government record  and and should be forwarded to the superintendent and superintendent will do with it what the superintendent is supposed to do with it. Or so. Or it's received by the school district, which is in furtherance of its official function. So if somebody sent you an email, you know, to the entire board about the war in Afghanistan,  probably doesn't matter that it went to the entire board or not. It's got nothing to do with your function and probably, you know, wouldn't need to be classified as a, as a public record.
NEXT> Will Phillips: But it's a lot easier for each person on the board not to try to be the one, you know, interpreting the statute and just say, superintendent, do something with

[9740-194] Will Phillips | Attorney, New Hampshire School Boards Association; presenter on the Ri | 2018-04-18
PREV> Unidentified: Bus schedule.
TEXT> Or something like that, probably, you know, not, you know, those those may be appropriate topics for, for an open discussion.  So you have the you have the board or district sponsored Facebook page, and then you have maybe a board member Facebook page. So  there are several board members throughout the state who create here's here's the page that I want you to communicate with me as a school board member. If you do that, there's a there's some things that you need to be aware of. And I got to cycle back to another piece. But one of the things is you need to make it crystal clear that that is your page. That is not the school board's page, that is not the district's page. As a as a school board member, you have no authority or power to speak on behalf of the board. But it's not. And that's true, you know, out in the street, if you're going to talk to somebody or advocate a position, that's your own personal position. I'm a school board member, but I'm speaking as an individual, not as a school board member. That's what your page should say. But there's some other issues that that occur when you have a A. So you have a individual member. I have a Facebook page. This is my community forum.
NEXT> Will Phillips: There are certain liability issues that arise for a district only when they learn of something. So for instance, in a, in, in certain, sexual harassment or discrimination cases, the

[9740-201] Will Phillips | Attorney, New Hampshire School Boards Association; presenter on the Ri | 2018-04-18
PREV> Will Phillips: just need to be mindful that you are obliged to conduct your business in public. So if you're having a quorum, discuss a jurisdictional matter. It's supposed to be in a public meeting. So you just need to be aware of that at all times.
TEXT> Oh, well, the other thing about and this is this is true for pages, but it's true for everything else is just the, you know, just the messaging. Again, you're, you're you are each individuals. You can't speak on behalf of the board unless you've been authorized to speak on behalf of the board. You know, you can express, you know, why you did or didn't do something, but that's all you can do. There are times when, you know, individual members are authorized to do something. And, and within that you speak on behalf of the board, but generally the only one who speaks outside of a meeting on behalf of the board, and it's a very narrow window is the chair. I you know, I haven't looked at your policy. You might have something that says, you know, a little bit different, but that's the general idea. And even then, the chair, unless you've specifically authorized the chair to do something, it's really just about the basics of school board business. Do we have any questions about electronic communications? Yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The Mimi talked earlier about some of the information that gets out there about the school district. And there's a page called What's Up, Claremont? And it sort of is

[9740-319] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: our project manager for the System of Care grant. And so I'll just have her speak to that question now. And then she'll come back up after to speak to the grant. So through the system of Cameron, we are allowed that Corey said, to.
TEXT> Have a culture and climate survey, and it's been administered through the seven other school districts that are implementing the System of Care grant. As she mentioned, there's a staff survey link. There's a parent link in a student link. And for the students, just so you know, they're third grade and above. So we won't be getting the littles in that in each school is given their own link for parents, staff and students. So it's very it's broken down by where, you know, the student is residing for what parents. So if you're a parent of Stevens and you're a parent of CMS and you're a parent of bluff, you'll get three surveys to give the feedback in particular to that school. We I do have all the survey links have been crafted and created. I, the question hasn't been posed about changing those. The questions, there may be some ability to do so. We just haven't asked. But that's something you could certainly get the question to or the answer to  tomorrow. About that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So my sense is the board would like.

[9740-380] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Cory LeClair: course of four years. And it's really around increasing the available supports for students and families with behavioral and mental health issues in our community. And Trinity can talk more about the components of the grant and what the grant is designed to support specifically.
TEXT> So thank you. So you each have a handout and that kind of gives an overview. And I'll kind of briefly walk through the parts of the system of care grant. So there's really five elements that you'll see at the top there promoting early childhood social and emotional learning and development. So that's key to a lot of this work that we're doing as well as connecting families, schools, communities, promoting mental, emotional, behavioral health of students, parents or community as a whole, preventing behavioral health problems and creating safe and violence free schools. So in all the work that we're doing, we're always asked to go back to, you know, does this pertain to one of these five elements? How are we addressing these five elements in the work that we're doing? So over the past year, some of the efforts that we've put into place is some youth mental health first aid training for staff and community members. We're looking at bringing that, back as needed. West Central Behavioral Health has people on staff that are trained to provide that training as well. The New Hampshire Department of Ed within their Bureau of Student Wellness, they can also provide that training. And ideally, we're training more and more of our staff as able more and more of our community members, parents  to be able to identify the risks associated with mental health issues in our students. We have  through a.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: Collaborator called We Are Hope. They are bringing in some one on one anxiety coaching at CMS, we're seeing a lot of middle schoolers six, seven to eighth grade. I'm

[9740-384] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: all of the elementary schools and this coming fall to kind of just give us a baseline of where students are coming in at, in hopes that we're also informing pre-K and private, daycares, private early childhood education programs within the district to help them.
TEXT> Take a look at the curriculum that they're using, as well as the supports that they're providing in those, crucial years. The 0 to 5 years. Right now, we're in the middle of hosting a community film series as well. So it's open to public parents, high school students and above, to bring about issues of the opioid crisis, trauma, what that, does for students and the effects around that as well. And then lastly, not lastly necessarily, but we're also starting to look at policies. So taking a look at the school board policies that are here in place. Are they student friendly. Are they trauma informed. Are we taking into consideration where these students are coming from? Culture class, all of that to make sure that they're inclusive and working to the best benefit of the student. So another piece of the system of care grant is the fast forward piece. So this is one small, one small piece of it. You get a get very crucial. We have the ability to take on a caseload of about eight students at a time. And what we're doing is we have what's called a wraparound coordinator, and she is responsible for coordinating the supports and services that the student will need to become successful in school.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: So to become a part of this program, the student must be at risk for a serious emotional disturbance, developmentally appropriate to participate. So we're looking at students ages 8

[9740-385] Trinity Dicks | Project manager, System of Care grant, Claremont School District (intr | 2018-04-18
PREV> Trinity Dicks: ability to take on a caseload of about eight students at a time. And what we're doing is we have what's called a wraparound coordinator, and she is responsible for coordinating the supports and services that the student will need to become successful in school.
TEXT> So to become a part of this program, the student must be at risk for a serious emotional disturbance, developmentally appropriate to participate. So we're looking at students ages 8 to 17 right now kind of tend to be the sweet spot where students are able to come to the table and advocate for what they need.  And it's all about, you know, bringing together the mental health supports in town, the educational system, health services, if there's misuse, and the family if there's, if, you know, mom or dad need vocational services because they don't have the skills to get a job that will  help them further along this, the wraparound coordinator is really bringing those, services all to the table. This is all family driven, though. So this is how it's, you know, it's different from DC f being called and saying you need to clean your house. You need to get into drug treatment. You need to do X, Y, and Z. This is all about the family coming in and saying, we want to be a family that doesn't fight.
NEXT> Trinity Dicks: How do we make that happen? And they're driving that process. So that's how it's different from any of the other services that come in. It's not to say that

