[14693-22] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'school board member Josh | 2022-11-03
PREV> Joshua Lambert: this morning. As as I'm sure many of you know by now, I'm the only parent educator serving on the school board, having recently taken on the role of classroom teacher as well as being the co-chair of the Curriculum Subcommittee of the School Board.
TEXT> I am learning every day about the trials and tribulations of piloting, approving, purchasing, and implementing new instructional programs. My school is currently going through the process of looking for a new and math assessment program. Unfortunately, the program that I wish to see implemented doesn't quite make the students their pricing. This is something that happens all too frequently when it comes to looking at programs and developing curriculums. At the public Hearing and school board meeting of October 19th. We heard from Assistant Superintendent Cassidy on how the district intends to use the $482,094.01 tonight. We have a price breakdown that shows some options being considered. I don't think anyone would argue with that, that Thurmont is in desperate need of some high quality instructional programs. With this extraordinary needs grant, the district is able to look even better. Programs that may not. It may not have been considered prior to receiving this money due to those prohibited costs. So that any come over to go with this grant allows the district to do is to implement the best programs we can for our students. It allows us to not only find programs for math, but the extra money can help us update and flush out even better programs for science and social studies with money that is higher than our district budget, without having to raise any extra from local taxes.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: And I know there are some concerns over the wording of the Warren article, and that it comes across as twice a year. Am I feeling this board member as

[14693-23] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member (recognized as 'school board member Josh | 2022-11-03
PREV> Joshua Lambert: us to not only find programs for math, but the extra money can help us update and flush out even better programs for science and social studies with money that is higher than our district budget, without having to raise any extra from local taxes.
TEXT> And I know there are some concerns over the wording of the Warren article, and that it comes across as twice a year. Am I feeling this board member as well as the teacher? The Warren article as written is exactly how it should be. We are afforded security and the fact that the funds must be spent in accordance with RSA 19841 as written in the article with Mr. Cosby's presentation at the October 19th meeting, with the cost breakdown of two possible pathways that we were given tonight for these funds to be used for, we know that these models will be used to advance the process purchasing and implementing new instructional programs. If we take out this article anymore, and something specified in an amended article doesn't pan out by concern, is that we're right back here deliberating and voting again and having these files. As any educator will tell you that everything works out. If you type it up too much, it might not work. And trust that the administration has the best interests of our students in mind.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: I trust that when they say they're going to use these funds for the purpose of the tributes to achieve as written in this one article, they were using funds

[14693-33] Michael Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (spelling uncertain - ASR 'Assistant S | 2022-11-03
PREV> Tracy Pope: Yeah.
TEXT> Thank you. There was a spreadsheet on the back table. They picked that up. This is our proposal for this. Grant money. We're going to give the school district. We are currently. Piloting two different versions of the  curriculum in K-5. First is in the middle column, Wit and Wisdom. The second pilot program is a L a, which stands for Knowledge Language Arts. And those  when those pilots are finished, we expect to purchase one of those programs for our district program for the Language Arts. And we would like to use the straight forward, the purchase of that. So we do not have to wait until next year to purchase that. We can get better to answer our students faster and our teachers. And then below that, in each of the two columns, are  additional language. Arts materials to help our, struggling words and words who are not succeed in the classroom the way they should. And so we have additional complementary programs separate from the two. One of the two programs will be purchasing. Also in addition, you'll see that there are some behavioral supports and behavioral trainings. The teachers to assist them and help them better with classroom management. So we're focusing on the literacy portion of this state board. And we expect that the implementation and training in these programs will increase our student achievement and reloads. Thank you.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Mr.. Mr.. We have a motion and a second, and I'm now opening the debate and even wishing to host this amendment as presented. The moderator recognizes David

[14693-35] Unidentified | Unidentified - public speaker in favor of the amendment (not named on  | 2022-11-03
PREV> Tracy Pope: as presented in writing to me. And I get to open up to debate. Anyone wishing to speak against this amendment. I'm going to wait a minute until copies of amendment, and I'd like to ask this. Anyone opposed to this amendment like to speak.
TEXT> And some communities more than others, because I would. In order to help them close the gap, we need the money that we normally would not be able to raise taxes. If you live in poverty rates down like that apartment. You can probably waste locally. Climb up with some help for that. Our property tax payers. They can't afford one this money. What this memo does ensures quite clearly that the money will be utilized or c g. And for other reasons, the plan is committed is approved by the school. I think it's billboard needs to be involved because they are the one second policy towards the next policy. So I support the event. I support the collaboration and continue to be medication between on stakeholders here of the students. So thank you. What's my appropriate.  I have. Questions. About the amendment. To whom do I pose those questions? So, my I have a question related to. Whether or not this would be restrictive. If we look at this point in place that does not include science, technology, mathematics, and which used to. Target reading or language arts only,  would we be prohibited from doing so? By producing an amendment that question going to. And if.
NEXT> David Putnam: Everybody can hear me, this is why I was straight out of the statute. So I think it's fine. It's been the school board is going to have to prepare

[14693-44] David Putnam | Public participant, proponent of the amendment (moderator: 'The modera | 2022-11-03
PREV> Unidentified: Great.
TEXT> So what's what's also important to recognize in in the amendment, in the. Statute. Itself is. The requires. You to submit a plan for approval. And when. You do that, if if the plan is not approved by the state, they will inform you of that and give you advice on how you should be changing it. So it is appropriate for our students and for what's in the Senate bill. We we in this language here as of the extra curriculum, just to broaden the scope, because as we know, education, a lot of the subject matters cross over with each other. So that's important for you folks to use as a tool. It's submitting your plan, but it is always contingent on the plan that you submit for, for approval and how you're going to use the money. One other point I want to make in that area, I've learned from the state that if you already have a plan in place using money allocated by the voters and it's in your budget to improve student achievement, you can swap in the money from this fund and use the money you've already allocated towards another program in your school system, but it all has to be approved of by a plan submitted to the state, which you can't do because there won't be any plan attached to it is return this money to the taxpayers because there wasn't there money to begin with.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. Mr..

[14693-47] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont School Board member defending the article as  | 2022-11-03
PREV> David Putnam: But I.
TEXT> Think I just wanted to caution everybody is that however,  we spend this money, it's going to ultimately have to be. Approved by the independent. So if they are not fond of our method of applying money to science and technology, because that's not one of the components they've listed in this point, we may not be able to spend this money on on targeted in those areas, although  I understand there is some level of flexibility they're going to allow. So I just want to just have everybody's expectations for everybody. Understand that whatever we do and the reason why it was written vaguely to begin with, was because it was absolutely no  information coming out of the Doe or the doctor as to how the artificially structured. So we tried to write it way to give us the maximum flexibility by just the  we would address student achievement. The amendment doesn't change that. And in fact, it just kind of specifies that this plan, which is all part of the process, will have to be approved, but it's going to be the DOF that's going to really well. The first is going to be the board deciding how  it wishes to spend the money and the blessing that plan.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Thank you. I think I need to ask one question to speak against this amendment. Seeing none. Anyone wishing to speak with this amendment. Mr. Blackman.

[14693-54] Tracy Pope | Claremont School District Moderator (introduced as 'Tracy, our moderat | 2022-11-03
PREV> Unidentified: I, I.
TEXT> Oppose nay. Debate. Did you have a motion and a second on amended emotion? I will read, actually, rather than reading. Everyone has a copy of this. We have a motion and a second to amend  the motion with this added language and like to have a voice vote. All those in favor of affordable. I. Have 65 on the ballot and presented. We've already had the. I'd like to have a voice vote. All those in favor  of my article, as amended by by saying I, I oppose de pastor minutes. This concludes my speaking on behalf of myself and the school district. Thank you for your attendance tonight.
NEXT> Unidentified: Welcome to adjourn.

[14727-32] Dr. Ann Wilson | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent ('Doctor Wilson | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: experiences address, these issues, these kinds of issues, and that we've, we've seen addressed in some of the exemplars that we were able to, to focus on. So I think is going to start us off with the first recommendation, which focuses on human resources.
TEXT> Yes. So I'd like to mention that the first five  recommendation, finding areas that you're going to see  really directly to human resources. And we note that your strategic plan areas of focus on contain three that really do focus on are related to human resources. And they would be recruiting and retaining the best and brightest staff possible, revamping district and school governance structures, and learning and teaching at SA to accrue student achievement. So all of these have a direct link to human resources. Our first finding,  is around a lack of clarity, consistency and timeliness that we  noted regarding essential HR functions. We also heard that recommended hirings often not processed in a timely fashion, and there was a lack of clarity and consistency regarding how to handle employee matters and concerns. So you see, we're bridging two areas here. One has to do very specifically with hiring, and the other has to do with  a major area of human resources. And, you know, people in a in a district to be paying attention to  what we say matters and concerns, we mean things like complaints, compliance with collective bargaining agreements and  implementation and compliance with board policy and state and federal laws.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: So here are for the city to establish an appropriately trained human resources lead position, a manager's position. And I can't emphasize enough that we really need to make sure

[14727-50] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: mentioned earlier, for a very long time, that I thought, I thought actually the feedback that we got from people on this, one of the scheduling and use of of meeting time and visibility, the superintendent of the superintendent, that that these are great things.
TEXT> They don't necessarily sound like a great thing up front, but they are. We heard people say we want to have meetings. We want to meet regularly. We want to have a genders. We want to have norms. We want to know at the end the kinds of things that we've made decisions on and what comes next. Right. I talked to many people in districts where principals say, we don't understand why we have so many meetings. That's not what your people in the central office and in the principals  role said. They said, we want we want to make good use of that time. We want to talk about the really important, meaty issues that are going on in the district. And the other thing that they said is we want to see the superintendent in our building. We we want him to be in our classrooms. We want him to  talk with our teachers, to talk with our students, to know what's going on and to be part of that school environment. And again, that's a tremendous positive thing for people to be saying. So the recommendations we're making is to establish regular communication channels with employees, stakeholders, whether those are newsletters, regular postings on the website, they can be all kinds of of different, different ways of doing that.
NEXT> William Lupini: Identify personnel who are responsible for making sure that the website stays current, who ultimately, you know, if if you say to me that there are 5 or 6 people

[14727-59] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> Dr. Ann Wilson: feeling of not having, not being responded to or not really being involved in the discussions and the planning. Who knows better what the school needs are, what a program needs, and the person who's responsible for designing, implementing, and evaluating these programs and schools.
TEXT> Thanks. So number ten involves indirect costs.  So  we we believe what we heard,  was that historically,  the districts this essay, has, has not,  taken advantage of using the indirect cost portion of grants.  Received by the districts, that is, there's a there's an ability to take a certain percentage, certain amounts in, in particular grants and use it for administration costs, those kinds of things. Laudable. The focus we heard over and over again has appears to have been on using grant dollars to support to directly support students. I guess our point in this is,  if if you need to fund certain positions or certain costs like HR,  in order to make sure that you can have teachers in front of kids, we can't think of anything that's more important to students than having a licensed teacher in front of them. Teaching subject desk. Third grade mathematics at the high school,  whatever it may be, having that person there and if, if, if we need to use some of those dollars, some of those indirect dollars that we have the ability to do to, to fund certain positions that make that happen, then I can't think of, of a better,  a better use of, of dollars on behalf of students. So we would recommend that you look carefully at, at, at the ability to, to use indirect  costs in, in certain of your grants to fund some of what we've recommended here.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: Then finally, as I mentioned earlier, there are very positive impressions thus far regarding the new Curriculum Instruction administration team. What we heard was that historically, curriculum and instruction curriculum

[14727-60] Dr. Ann Wilson | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent ('Doctor Wilson | 2022-11-16
PREV> William Lupini: of a better, a better use of, of dollars on behalf of students. So we would recommend that you look carefully at, at, at the ability to, to use indirect costs in, in certain of your grants to fund some of what we've recommended here.
TEXT> Then finally,  as I mentioned earlier, there are very positive impressions thus far regarding the new Curriculum Instruction  administration team. What we heard was that historically, curriculum and instruction  curriculum implementation. Has not been very consistent and has almost been  haphazard sometimes. And there are a lot of feelings of being overwhelmed by initiatives.  We did not see any evidence of an established curriculum review process. We didn't see evaluation of current curriculum and consideration of new adoptions, having a plan and coordinated approach. And as I said a few seconds ago,  there's a sense of people being overwhelmed with initiatives and not then having proper support for implementation with fidelity, which is what we want and is part of one of your strategic  focus areas for your strategic plan. Really, you know, improving student achievement. So our recommendations are around establishing a regular curriculum review process that's transparent to employees. And I think you've probably by now see a theme here that  communicating transparency and involvement. So involving all the key stakeholders.  A curriculum review process should be adopted by the boards with results of reviews reported regularly so that it's very, very transparent, very clear, not only to the people within the school system but the community.
NEXT> Dr. Ann Wilson: They everyone understands what the process is. And then any and all substantive curriculum changes should be then driven by that established process. And again, no surprises. Everyone on your

[14727-67] Dr. Ann Wilson | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent ('Doctor Wilson | 2022-11-16
PREV> Dr. Ann Wilson: them work together. And then finally, you know, if the school boards and the administrative team work together to engage in even some of this work, we really believe that the s will be more efficient, more focused on the various needs of the stakeholders.
TEXT> But ultimately, what we all, why we all do what we do is to improve outcomes for students.  So again, lot here, a lot to digest, a lot of really hard work for your people to do. But positive attitudes toward working together and a real desire to do what's best for the kids. So thank you.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[14727-83] William Lupini | Organizational study consultant, former superintendent (uncertain spel | 2022-11-16
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> Right. And so there's, there's  there's opportunity there because most grants come with the opportunity to have some indirect impact to support the administration of the grants. So there's there's  there's clearly opportunity there.  But again, you're going to have to look at that and against what you're actually spending the grant dollars on now and make some make some choices. I think the comment I'll just repeat that we tried to emphasize is that, you know, there's different ways of having impacts on impact on kids, right? Right. Not having a teacher in the class because we can't get HR process quickly enough to do that. We lose candidates as a result that his impact on kids.  So I can't speak to the exact amount, but given given the amount of grant  amount that you have in terms of grant dollars,   my guess is there's a there's a significant  there's a significant amount that would be in play that could be part of this conversation.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[14727-159] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives the superintendent's report [28]; 'Thank  | 2022-11-16
PREV> Richard Seaman: approach that I had taken coming in is let's pump that money right back into straight educational strategies, as opposed to taking it out into paying for something else. We have the ability to do that. We're not leaving it behind, we're just reallocating it.
TEXT> And I and the the other piece to that, I don't know if if everyone picked up on it, we do it all the time. And frankly, it was great to hear it from a third party. Okay. But the there is a big difference between the financial responsibility for the grants management and then following by a strategic plan and having a purpose for what you want to do to move the needle in terms of student achievement in those two entities speaking to each other all the time, knowing what's up, being a check and a balance, that's what's it blows me away with where the team came in from, the districts they were in and the experiences they had and said, this is what we need, this is how it goes. And  in communicating that, so. Just purposefully in also particularly with with Sharon, who who does this meeting with them regularly and it's it's been it's really been a great  it's a change from the past and it's it's a welcome change. And I think the way both sides are expressing those things, it's really it's it's awesome. It really is in, in fairness. And  you hear me say this like a broken record.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There was a lot of catch up okay to do for, for for the, for the business team and a resurrection of records that literally didn't exist. Okay. So it

[14822-242] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 (the superintendent turns to him: 'Jeff, | 2023-01-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You have a, you know, stuff in there for, SQL and Oracle, other types of abilities, other types of products as well. Jeff, you might help me out with some of those. Those?
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, one of the biggest time consuming pieces to are all the boy beginning of year, end of the year, any time of year reports that, have to be submitted to the state. She's really, they helped with the CRTC selection and reporting. They, What's the other one that they just. Think of it? She's responsible for all the. I foresee user security assigns, user roles, assigned access. I mean, pretty much anything power, school, anything with our student information system, any of the state reports, anything that,  doesn't seem right, any schedule changes, any, she's working with the principals. I mean, anything that you can think of is in this position, so I.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have a degree.

[14833-22] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; Frank Sprague: 'I agree with M | 2023-01-11
PREV> Unidentified: And thank you for your work. All of you.
TEXT> Any other citizens are. Not agenda items. Seeing none of your close citizens comments and move on to our student, our student representatives report. Hello, Hannah.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: So all the. Elementary. Schools are putting on a play called Ode to Milan at the Claremont Opera House at 2 p.m. on January 21st and take it to the

[14833-82] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; Frank Sprague: 'I agree with M | 2023-01-11
PREV> Richard Seaman: Heard.
TEXT> That, you know, about the Newport Tech Center,  starting in not exactly a teacher prep, but it's a behavior of fed program where I spoke to Eric, their insurance director of, I called him the other day. He returned my call today. I spoke with him. He talked about their program that he's that they're developing for the development of our program is. But it would start off with my understanding as head of a general study geared toward education. And from there, the kids can choose guidance counselor type, direct to teacher, to paraphrase. So they kind of choose which direction they may want to go, and then they're working on their own agreements with key states, and other places, including pulling in education educators to come help and present to the program or teach the program. Where kids could come out of that program. And really similar to what Alex presented to us, we're ready to be careful professionals right out of that program or even give real college credit. So it's it sounds like a great program. I love the program.  Pretty disappointed that,
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That we didn't know. Not in the course we have already happened about that when that first the development of the program was taking place, that there was no, knowledge

[14833-95] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: That the other parts into.
TEXT> I would, I would just for the expansion at this point, expansion  of programing at the Tech Center be held off for this budget cycle. Half of it's already basically gone. Gone. So let's really develop and invest in a real plan 110% that we can fully support, verify that we're we're doing something that's going to make a difference, because the whole point is, is to become leaders in the surrounding communities and not continually fall behind. And we're continually falling behind because of missteps that we're making. And it's not intentional. I don't think any of this is intentional, but at the same time, we're dealing with a 10% increase in this is a large chunk of it for the expansion of the tech. And, I mean, I came from the tech. I fully support this building in its programs. I really, truly do. I hate having to be the bad guy that comes out here and says, let's cut something at the tech, let's not do something at the tech. But I have to go back to the basics of education. We have a focus on our curriculum that we need to really focus on, because at the end of the day, we need these children to be productive members of society when they get out of our our district.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Because once the matter the district. The world is theirs. And until we get the basics down, we're really handicapping ourselves by juggling so many balls, to be quite honest.

[14833-117] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (presides; Frank Sprague: 'I agree with M | 2023-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: Correct. Same for the first time right.
TEXT> So our understanding is this year's juniors. We need that class next year the graduation. So I would wonder if as a starter, if there's any way that that position may come here. Part time to start teaching a business in algebra internship course with the kids that are here. I mean, I don't know if that could be. Is that position for most to be busy enough there?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Right. Split some time and come here to try to kick off that. It's just not there yet. Yeah, it's it's kind of hard to predict what the enrollment would

[14833-133] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: As the next.
TEXT> Is it. It's such a hard answer or question in my mind to how to do this in and do it smartly and wisely with the taxpayers dollar. And the reason I say that is, is because our children are not performing well in math, yet. We're working on that. We're not performing well in language arts, but we're expecting the program to be super successful in a business. Entrepreneurial, of course, but we can't get the basics of literacy and mathematics. So you can continue to keep putting money in the cart before the horse, or you put the horse in front of the car. And that's kind of what I've been saying over and over and I've been struggling with in my mind is, how do we get from point A to point B? You know, you have to you're looking at all these different things and you're you see the value in them all. But once again we're faced with a 10% increase. We have to figure out what what we're going to do. But we can't even get the basics. You're trying to build the house before you have the foundation. And I understand where rebuilding the foundation and trying to get the curriculums in place.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And that would be if I was spending money, I would I want my house to be built on a solid foundation before I'm going to start putting in bay

[14833-134] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Steven Horsky: increase. We have to figure out what what we're going to do. But we can't even get the basics. You're trying to build the house before you have the foundation. And I understand where rebuilding the foundation and trying to get the curriculums in place.
TEXT> And that would be if I was spending money, I would I want my house to be built on a solid foundation before I'm going to start putting in bay windows. And while it's nice to have those beautiful bay windows looking out, if we're not going to see the value of them because the house is falling in because of the foundation, it makes no sense. So that relates to the trades and just and we're trying to teach these these children through these programs, money management. And that's what we're here to do today. Are we going to keep putting the cart before the horse, or are we going to start having the horse pull the cart? And until we get where English language arts are, mathematics scores get up. We're just throwing money against the wall and hoping something sticks. To be quite honest. And I understand we have different demographics, different children, different needs, and you can't fit them all. It's impossible. You can't make everybody happy. We can only do the best with what we got. But at the same time, the only way to get there is to build the solid foundation first.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: Completely agree with that. But as part of a larger discussion that we've had in the past is that many kids don't process the basics the same way. So, like,

[14833-135] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, resigning after this meeting (chair: 'I | 2023-01-11
PREV> Steven Horsky: different children, different needs, and you can't fit them all. It's impossible. You can't make everybody happy. We can only do the best with what we got. But at the same time, the only way to get there is to build the solid foundation first.
TEXT> Completely agree with that. But as part of a larger discussion that we've had in the past is that many kids don't process the basics the same way. So, like, I was not a math kid growing up, and then I went to culinary school for a year, was put in culinary math, and then here I am doing math like, no problem. And it's when you find that interest, you get better at things. So if we put kids into these business courses, you know, relating to their woodshop or, all these programs at the tech, they're going to perform better because it's related to what they're interested in. And you don't get that in the traditional classroom. When I think of the tech, I mean, I was a traditional student, but I think of like the nontraditional students who just can't access material the same way because it's not interesting. They I'd rather see them in a business entrepreneurship class than drop out. I mean, I guess you're not going to build that foundation if you can't get the kids interested. And with business, I mean, it can relate to so many of the different, you know, so many of the different interests because it can be personalized to what business that they might want to open someday.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: But again, taking it off from like a test drive position with the new, teacher position that's required, I think. I don't see why we couldn't at least knock the

[14833-197] Ben Nester |  | 2023-01-11
PREV> Frank Sprague: There's not a cap. There's not a cap. Special ed.
TEXT> We have to serve with disabilities industry. But you know, we're looking at a tighter, tighter budget and a little bit of a tighter structure that we're used to. We're going to be looking at more creative ways to serve those kids so that maybe more kids dropping in services versus attending a half day program. Yeah.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: What's our relationship with Head Start? Do we have one? We didn't know you were down. So there's a handful of kids currently at headstart that require special ed services,

[14833-224] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, budget subcommittee (recognized as 'Ste | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: Making it happen.
TEXT> So this. Is going to go to another question. That I. Asked. I want to know every dollar of right down to. The. Penny that have been used, because that's part of the budget, to be quite honest. It's an influx of cash that has been injected into the school district. Yeah. And now we're having a debate on a huge increase. But we had all this free money. So that came in and those free monies totaled over 10 million. Correct. So we're talking 25% of our budget was free money from the federal government that we're supposed to use to improve our district, our students, for overall outcomes, to make up for the lost time for the Pope. So that creates the question to me is, is that we have this $10 million plus that's also included into this number somewhere because it's being spent. So it's just tough to digest looking at a budget with increases, when you're not even considering a free increase of $10 million in here. That's that's.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So this year's in this year's green, which also runs into next year. Third Esser Grant, was for 6.4 million. 6 million of that has been already encumbered. So there's

[14833-263] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Richard Seaman: 'Is that what you came  | 2023-01-11
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think that we could we could justify that because we did. I think.
TEXT> Can we I have to have a question if if we were to set the tax increase threshold or our suggested threshold at what did we just say $0.94 increase, which would make it 20 the same as it was before, if our tax rate was 2453. And that would if that tax rate right there is 20, if that's just 24, 22 and it's a 63. Anyways, I'm assuming that at the tax rate of 2453, that will increase the tax rate by $0.94. Can we request that the schools, all of the different bodies who put together this budget, try to show us increase decreases that would get us closer to that number? And if they can't, a justification for why it can't be decreased. Because if there's something that just can't be taken out, I, I want to know about it and I just want to know why. But for everything that can be taken out, just cut it all discretionary funds. And I have a lot of questions about individual line item funds in here. But they say they've gone through it line by line by line. So just look again, if there is anything in here that it's absolutely not necessary for student achievement, let's consider reducing it or taking it out to get us closer to the 94 cent increase on the tax rate, which is still an increase.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But I think it would be something that people could.

[14833-309] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Richard Seaman: 'Is that what you came  | 2023-01-11
PREV> Michael Petrin: When you see, I think I saw.
TEXT> Yes.  I just want to make a comment to the voters that echo Heather's sentiment, that the reason why we're working so hard to try to make this budget more for the voters is that the teacher's salary contract is included in this budget, and it does include a that contract was hard to win. And,  it required a lot of work on behalf of the administration, the teachers who represent the union and the board members. And it took us it was very difficult to get to a place where all three of those groups were satisfied with the contract, and  I feel that it is the very best we could do for the teachers, and that they deserve it. So  without passing this, if we don't pass this budget, that contract is not passed and it puts our school system in a really, really embarrassing position with our teachers. So just please, please try to consider that this board and the administration are doing the best we can with this budget, but that we are really, really in a difficult position because of market forces and a lot of things that are outside of our control with the price of goods and services in this, in this country. Thank you.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So just.

[14835-6] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: over the last number of years, and it breaks it out. By how many years of experience do they have with the Claremont School District? So in looking at the grid, what we find is 22% of those that leave left in the first year.
TEXT> After the first year, another 14% left after the second year. Another 17% left after the third year. And again, this is the area with our new teachers where they're getting the training, when they're getting comfortable with working with the kids and the kiddos and the students, and then we're leaving them. I mean, then we're losing them. So they're they're leaving us. The intent of the negotiation was to try and address that, that  occurrence or what's going on. So from the board's negotiation at the very start was to address the dollars down into the lower level of the grid and to make Claremont yet a little bit more competitive as it relates to teacher salaries. And if we go to the next two pages that are included here, which are which are comparables to other districts, and we'll just focus for a moment on bachelors here. So for example, right now at the start of brand new teacher, coming into Claremont School District was making 40,728. Let's hold on. The second Sol Mountain are making $4,000 more. Kearsarge right about in the same place, the Lebanon. And you can see the numbers here. Cornish is lower. We're comparable,  with Windsor and a little bit higher than Newport.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So the, the, the strategy was to both bring up that starting salary and make it competitive to the other districts, and then also to put an increase into year

[14835-11] Unidentified | School Board member on the teacher negotiating team, speaks for 'our c | 2023-01-09
PREV> Michael Koski: then that will occur. Fall September of 2024 will be the implementation of that new system. Also want to make note that there are some, give backs in insurance by the teachers. As part of the negotiation agreement, anything. We left out, however. With, I.
TEXT> Think just, we want to communicate, that the, the focus of the board was that we were driven and we had heard from educators for decades, actually, that one of the of our district is that we fail to keep these young teachers and we fail to keep talent or to be able to retain the talent that we've actually created. And so although our,  committee wanted to reward everybody heartily, we believed that it was in the best interest of our students and in the and and the district long term, to wait these salary increases at those critical periods, young teachers coming out of school from 1 to 6, they are in the highest cost points of their life. They are carrying student loans. We have educators right now that are working two jobs to keep a roof over their heads. And although we really wanted to reward the folks that are higher end up at the  higher end of the scale and recognize all the hard work they've done and the mentoring that they have done,  are overwhelming. Drive was to make sure that we were able to retain those those young, those young teachers that were up and coming.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything further.

[14847-326] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: over $1 million. That is included within the budget, as opposed to as a separate warrant article. This is at the request of the Sri to include the negotiated budget in or the negotiated agreement in the budget, as opposed to a separate warrant article.
TEXT> The greater increase that we see at Maple Avenue relates to additional special education programs that are resident in Maple Avenue. And therefore, there's a there's a slightly larger increase in Maple than there is in the other two elementary schools. Claremont Middle School is seeing a reduction, which is a combination of reduced out of district spending for middle school students, as well as some other reduced expenses for special education needs within Claremont Middle School. At the high school, we're seeing a significant increase in of district placements. Ben can go through in more detail here if needed,  but we've been provided a kiddo by kiddo estimate of what the costs are for our our  for out of district placements. For next year, the alternative program pride has been reduced primarily through a reduction in the leadership that we have in that program and some of the specials that have gone along with that program on the for assistance to some of the students, as well as in the. In the autism program, a change in the way that the autism program is being carried forward. Sugar River regional is still seeing an increase of the 95,000. The primary piece to that is the increase in the cost to the teachers that we have there, as well as a significant increase in utilities within the building here. Pre K down by almost $70,000, a reduction of three paraprofessional paraprofessional positions within pre-K district wide showing down 178,000.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: That's a large change from what we had at the last meeting, because that includes the yet to be identified reduction of 754,470, which I spoke about at the beginning

[14847-336] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would you just mind speaking, mind speaking to the importance of the teachers contract, the way it is structured? And why we're holding that at such high value.
TEXT> Mean I can I can certainly speak to our part of it. And then for those that were part of the negotiation, the negotiating team,  we did have the negotiating team believe Heather, you were there. Frank was a part of the negotiating team. And Whitney. No. Yes. Okay.  We met many times with the SREA. What we have had a historic challenge with in Claremont is losing our young teachers. We have a teacher come in for one, two, maybe three years, get trained in Claremont and then leave for more money, leave for different positions in the area. In taking a look at that analysis, we found almost 50% of those that leave us leave within the first three years. So the target of the negotiation was to have an increase in year number three, a more significant increase, rather than just the standard 2.5% increase. So we had a more significant increase that took place in year three, which allows us hopefully to retain these teachers that we're losing, which is beneficial to us, hopefully beneficial to the teacher and certainly beneficial to our students. Now, when you have that increase in the grid, the way the grid works is it works its way all the way down to the grid.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: So there's still increases going on for everyone at every step, but most meaningful at those at step number three. And that's what the big increase is that we're looking

[14847-337] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and Operations (business administ | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: that we're losing, which is beneficial to us, hopefully beneficial to the teacher and certainly beneficial to our students. Now, when you have that increase in the grid, the way the grid works is it works its way all the way down to the grid.
TEXT> So there's still increases going on for everyone at every step, but most meaningful at those at step number three. And that's what the big increase is that we're looking at this year, is trying to reduce that level of turnover, which is expensive for us to continue to recruit for it, but very expensive to our students and very expensive to all the teachers that remain here. Anything else to to add to that?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Just I just want to throw in that there's a cost that we don't see directly when we have teacher turnover. It's efficiencies. It's it's I'll speak louder. So I

[14847-340] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (uncertain - speech championing the teach | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: what you're going to have to do is hire someone with three years of experience but only pay them step two level of salary. So it's going to it's it's almost catastrophic if we're not able to pass any teacher contract, but especially this one.
TEXT> So I, I also want to champion, the teachers contract that we have now  in also the one that we did before this. Okay. So we tried to close the gap and be in the early stages of  $40,000, which seems like a lot.  It shouldn't, but it was in the contract before this, this. Contract. We looked at all surrounding communities. We looked at  we looked at  Fall Mountain, Newport, everyone around us. This puts us right in the middle to the upper of that pack.  Absolutely historic.  Our teachers deserve it.  It would be catastrophic if this did not pass.  I think the commitment to, to our teachers, to retaining,  all of our teachers, but specifically those targeted grades with that turnover in the associated costs and the investment in that. I, I've heard it all the time. We've seen that trend start to reverse where we were starting to get teachers and administrators and from places like Hanover, from places like Fall Mountain coming our way, we want to keep that and surpass that and exceed that in the future. Claremont is a great place to work in. Our students. Deserve this. Our teachers deserve this. So I can't say enough about it. And it was a lot of time and  concessions on both sides. And I  it's it's it's very important that we got we pass this. Thank you. At this time.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I think that's the end of the overview. Correct. It is. All right. So at this time we're going to open up for citizens comments I ask that you raise

[14847-389] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center, Ward 2 residen | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. All right. Anybody else that hasn't spoken yet? All right, Mr. Herzog.
TEXT> Doctor Herzog, Ward two, director of Tech Center. So I mentioned I forgot to mention I did meet with Mr. Pratt today. We had a great conversation. He was  very willing to collaborate. It all depends on,  I would love to see it here at the tech center. Get more foot traffic in the tech center for other students to see our other programs. But I'm also willing to we'll we will work that out if we can make that happen. When we taught accounting, that teacher taught personal finance and it wasn't required. But he's taught four sections, and those classes were pretty full. And we really need more electives for our students and the business entrepreneurship is a great opportunity for our seniors. The plan is to make it a one year program that they could possibly do their senior year. Not, you know, not necessarily only seniors, but it just has some great legs to it. And so, yeah, I just wanted to share that with you. Thank you.
NEXT> David Putnam: David Putnam, Ward two. So the Visioning Committee has spent 7 or 8 meetings with a lot of thorough discussions, learning history, the differences with the different programs we've interviewed,

[14847-419] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2, former student representative to the School  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: Yeah.
TEXT> Just because accessibility to information was mentioned a couple of times tonight, I don't know if it's because this was the old budget.  It had been mentioned that it was updated, But it's very hard to read through love elementary Schools at the end, even though the other two elementary schools are in the beginning and Stevens isn't listed at all. So it goes from element or sugar River Valley to elementary to middle school. So,  just so we can get the things needed to be done that we need to have done, just making sure information is accessible and also maybe providing descriptions from some of these things. Some lines are just zero. And then down below there's like 40% increases, 40% decreases. It can be hard for someone without any financial literacy background or if they haven't had the opportunity to access education, that would enable them to be able to read this effectively. And number two, with talking about bringing teachers in the Claremont because it is desperately needed. I was a Stevens grad. They went through like revolving doors.  And the good ones, my I just had my five year reunion. We still talk about the good ones.  Because they do leave a impact in students and in our children's lives in Claremont. But just so you were aware,  the New Hampshire Commission on Finances, it's the New Hampshire Housing 2022 report, new Hampshire 2022 Residential Rental Cost Survey Report.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: I highly recommend you read. This will give valuable information for if you're trying to recruit teachers from outside communities, because in Sullivan County, we have a five vacancy rate

[14847-448] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2, former School Board and SAU chair (self-iden | 2023-01-17
PREV> Richard Seaman: Yeah.
TEXT> Putnam  number two. This is fun. To continue with Patrick's  presentation. When I went through different educational trainings,  we learned that some of the Pacifics in,  student learning is is focusing on retention, focusing on constant awareness and learning in the classroom for the core subjects and focusing on homework so they can practice it. Good learning requires retention and practice. All of us have certain jobs and and  and when we try to go back to something that we used to do, sometimes we struggle with it because we hadn't either practiced it enough, so we hadn't retained how to do it well enough. So we weren't as successful as we thought it could be. High school students are even worse because they aren't mature people, yet they haven't adopted good habits for life. And so part of our responsibility in being teachers and educators is to help them retain knowledge and learn. Teach them how to practice it. I remember not very fondly phone calls from  local college administrators wanting to know what we were doing with our school system and the reason why they were calling me, yelling at me is because when students enrolled from Stevens High School and other local high schools, that the school had to spend up to four months retraining students in math and writing and
NEXT> David Putnam: reading so that they could then be enrolled in their college. And it's a lot of them has to do with the fact that the I believe that the school

[14847-449] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2, former School Board and SAU chair (self-iden | 2023-01-17
PREV> David Putnam: our school system and the reason why they were calling me, yelling at me is because when students enrolled from Stevens High School and other local high schools, that the school had to spend up to four months retraining students in math and writing and
TEXT> reading so that they could then be enrolled in their college. And it's a lot of them has to do with the fact that the I believe that the school system didn't require students to to  include homework as part of their program of studies. When I was in school, homework was one third of our grade, and doing that homework allowed us to practice what we were taught in the classroom so we could better learn it. If we want to increase and improve our student,  successes and change our statistics on student achievement that I believe you need to look at how you teach students, how you make them work so they can learn their subjects.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[14847-453] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: can accommodate these. Then we go to our guidance counselors because we've had lots of talk about what we need, guidance counselors and where we need them. Elementary school, one to every 500 children. Junior high school and high school one to every 300 children.
TEXT> So interestingly enough, assistants vice principals are required in schools with 500 operator. So if you look at some of the line items in the budget, I've spent way too many time looking at these. I found some areas that I thought were interesting to note. Our students aren't making the the grades for the minimum standards, but we keep putting money in. So the board's previously and this one currently sitting have kind of failed because we're not providing the correct guidance and opportunity. However, just like in big government, you give them the money, they're going to spend it. But we're still not getting the results. The community demands results time and time again. They want us to spend money on certain programs. That's fantastic. I broke down in this whole ball of wax. How many? Based off data that was previously provided based off our enrollments. So when I was able to do that, that allowed me to figure out that according and it matches up with what the paperwork actually had, they were we're hearing the teachers, but according to minimum standards, we're technically heavily overstaffed.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: We're running at better than a 50% ratio than what the minimum standards required. So in order to properly alleviate some of the budget, I've sat there and looked at,

[14847-461] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (recognized  | 2023-01-17
PREV> Steven Horsky: but if $300,000.50 in tax rate is that so I'm glad somebody. Okay, so using the wrong number. I still calculated a pretty good sized deduction. Now you go down to my least favorite line of them all which is the tech center in athletics.
TEXT> You cut those out of the budget you're saving roughly I believe that works out to another 1.6 million 600,000 of it is sports. And then roughly 1.1 is the whole tech center. With that said, I'm not looking to do that, but realistically, it's not a requirement for education of the children. And the whole point of this exercise, I was trying to narrow it down as to what the state guidelines require the taxpayers to fund. Now opposed to the presentation we have from the administration. I didn't have any pairs. I didn't any support staff. I did not cut the tech center, and I did not cut the athletics. But I found $2 million based off what I believe is wasteful spending due to class size. If we're following the minimum standards, we're getting minimal results, not even from the performance of the students. So the small class sizes is not working.  Or at least it's not well spent money, because we may be able to take some of this $2 million and put it somewhere correctly. That's actually going to improve student outcome. But what we're doing is not working. And that was the point of the exercise. I believe firmly in what I'm presenting to everybody tonight is the correct solution to at least save money and better think of ways to spend the money.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I come to these meetings, get frustrated. People hear me say, you're putting the cart before the horse. We need to start building a foundation. Yes we do. That's the

[14847-473] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member, sitting on the SAU 6 Board (moves to re | 2023-01-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: So we have a motion by Frank. A second by Heather. Further discussion.
TEXT> Well, I'm not ready to vote yes for this, but I, I worry that we might be making a mistake by completely cutting the tech school, the tech programs that we're going to be added. But at the same time, I feel the pressure of trying to get to a budget that we're confident the voters will vote for. But I worry that we're doing a disservice to the long term success of the tech center and our students by not by not adding these new programs that are visioning committee work so hard to propose. And it's kind of good that we have these two budgets looking at looking at like we're looking at these two budgets side by side, or at least I am, because it looks like the main difference between the budget we looked at last week and the budget we looked at this week, is we're cutting those two roles from the proposed program to the tech center, the business entrepreneurship and the teacher education, as well as seriously reducing the district wide to be allocated item in the summary sheet. And so I guess, I don't know, it's really hard to say right now, but I just wonder how honestly I really want to hear from somebody in this audience how  like, what would what is a voters kind of response off the top of your head to the budget? That's 39 million 322 325 326,000 versus 38,345,000 is about $1 million difference.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And the difference actually could be just a difference of about what's the difference between those salaries, 226,000. So if the difference was 226,000 and not 1 million, would you

[14847-498] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Bonnie, you had a yes' [834]; ' | 2023-01-17
PREV> Bonnie Miles: to benefit more students. There is a need to explore additional programs. Will labor data supports career opportunities, partnerships with business, industry and a community college, and granting students graduation credit, particularly in mathematics, science and English language arts. Through their career and technical programs.
TEXT> Now, this tech center has really grown with what it's had so far the number of students. I'm going back to 2017 to 18 to this past this year. Now Building Construction had 43 students. Now it's 89 plumbing and H had 42. Now it's 62, culinary had 19, and now it's 178 and advanced manufacturing engineering at 51. And now it's 92. And of course the accounting and personal financing was closed, but instead with 108. And just two years ago it was up to 182. So I have to say, I want the teachers to get their race and the package, but something needs to be taken from this to get us to the other schools. We are there for the children, we are there for our community, and we are there to give that. We can't just stop giving them their education and bring the graduation rate down. We've got to stay here for these kids and I'm firm on that. I think that the somewhere, Richard, you can work your magic to put this together. There's got to be money somewhere. I believe there is. And that's what I think. That's that's.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So, so.

[14875-26] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (presides; never named on this recording — identifi | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: Gomer and some other smaller schools that are in the same situation. By doing this, it allows us to keep the hockey at the individual schools who don't have their own programs. And so that's that's the what you have in front of you there.
TEXT> So this essentially keeps our kids still our kids here in Claremont still playing hockey.  It just needs our approval.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. It's just it's just a yeah, it's a combined effort approval. Yeah. It's a combined effort that a bunch of schools are coming together for the hockey programs. Rather

[14875-32] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (presides; never named on this recording — identifi | 2023-02-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: A second.
TEXT> A motion by Frank. Second. Heather. Any further discussion? I think it's it's been a great program for these kids to be able to participate. I think it'll be great for them to be able to continue this. My interesting was I think there's further approval after us. So hopefully, you know, hopefully it gains that approval. So, anything further? All right. All those in favor? All opposed? Thank you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Great. Thank you.

[14875-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: see at $0.95. And then we when we revised the budget, it was $0.39 less on the dollar. This is just the revised tax, impact document that we're going to I'm going to go through right now. So the rationale, it's a lot to read.
TEXT> But basically the gist of this, if you haven't read it already, it's online, we've mailed it out to all, all staff, and we've tried to answer as many questions as we could from the public, and we have some of those here  to make sure we went over. We met as administrative team today to make sure that  we were just discussing things that were coming up in the buildings as soon as  recently as a few hours ago, and just what people are thinking about. Did you think of this? Did you think of that when you put something together in order to get this into the board packet, we, we we had about 6 or 7 days to get it together.  It is something of an extension of what we proposed or elements that are, are  in there of what was proposed a few years ago with a, with a restructure. We, we still feel,  even though we did this pretty  pretty  quickly and we had it there, there's elements of it that that are very substantial and ultimately I think are good for kids in. And we'll go over those. And most of all, I want to and other people in the crowd to, to also  give their perspective on it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But by moving the fifth grade up to the middle school and moving the middle school the eighth grade to the high school, we feel like we would still preserve

[14875-65] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member — onset of her Title I question | 2023-02-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: I was just curious. How does how do you teach six sections with five slots? Okay.
TEXT> What will. What will the impact be on title one for the restructuring of moving fifth grade and eighth grade to different buildings, and the impact on students who have,  I and special and special needs, especially the students who require Aids or one on one aids or one on couple few aids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. So for the special ed needs and Mr. Chairman as well. But the the IEP follows this the student. So if a kid goes up everything that they need

[14875-73] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Well, we pulled it. D Skinner our free and reduced and a lunch specialist pulled that historically. But yeah, it is on the it's October 1st information that's on the on the web. Yeah.
TEXT> So for me that was important information to have when we were considering whether or not the matrix of our students had changed. Let's see what else. Also, I think it's really important for folks to know that one of the primary drivers of making sure that we have a very manageable budget to pass is that we have this collective bargaining agreement embedded in the budget. And while everything is important,  not everything can be most important when we look at budgets. And for me, being a member that was on the collective bargaining agreement committee, I feel the single most important thing that we can do, that we can do as a board right now, is to ensure that we increase our salaries for our teachers. That, to me, is just number one. We did a good job a couple of years ago, increasing our salaries for the for entry level. And we would like to continue to reward our teachers and attract the best and brightest. For me, this budget reduction allows us to do this in the future. It also allows us to build flexibility with the budget to pay our paraprofessionals what they deserve to be paid.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We have a real issue with recruiting paraprofessionals. We pay less than McDonald's pays for a paraprofessional if we do not have flexibility in our budget years down the road,

[14875-90] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Type of thing I think we could all. That's going to be.
TEXT> Well good evening.  Thank you for offering us a chance to kind of share some thinking.  As Mr. Tempesta shared with you, it's been a very quick 6 or 7 days to to flush out some thinking on this, but we really just wanted to touch base on,  reasons we can really get behind this transition in a model because again, we're all focused on what are the benefits for children. And so really our conversations have been  if these changes are made. What are the potential benefits for children. So Christina is welcome to start with. If  preschool came into an elementary school, she doesn't have much of a voice. I think by the time we get to Frank, he's got a good voice.  So excuse us for that.
NEXT> Christina (surname not stated): Sure, I can start. I lost my voice sobbing today, so I apologize. So some of the benefits that we kind of talked about as a preschool is right now

[14875-91] Christina (surname not stated) | Preschool / Early Childhood Center administrator — introduced as 'Chri | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: the potential benefits for children. So Christina is welcome to start with. If preschool came into an elementary school, she doesn't have much of a voice. I think by the time we get to Frank, he's got a good voice. So excuse us for that.
TEXT> Sure, I can start. I lost my voice sobbing today, so I apologize.  So some of the benefits that we kind of talked about as a preschool is right now  being alone at the tech center. It's kind of hard to access all of the supports that would be in a regular school basis. So,  having access to  staff would be one big thing. So today I subbed in a classroom because otherwise if I didn't sub, I would have had to shut that classroom down. I had five staff out. If we have access to other  staff in the elementary schools, we don't have to look at that being a possibility. We can access all of the staff within the building, the sub pool, all of those things and kind of have a little bit more support that way. Just having more support for  special education services, being able to work a little bit closer with the kindergarten, do some more curriculum development so that we're making sure that our students are really prepared for when they're entering the kindergarten. You know, we work really hard to get them  school ready as much as we can, but just having a little bit more of that collaboration is really important to us,  especially for our students with special needs.
NEXT> Christina (surname not stated): We have a really, really high, I almost want to call it a crisis right now in early childhood crisis in Claremont. I've gotten 26 bed referrals in the last

[14875-92] Christina (surname not stated) | Preschool / Early Childhood Center administrator — introduced as 'Chri | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christina (surname not stated): prepared for when they're entering the kindergarten. You know, we work really hard to get them school ready as much as we can, but just having a little bit more of that collaboration is really important to us, especially for our students with special needs.
TEXT> We have a really, really high, I almost want to call it a crisis right now in early childhood crisis in Claremont. I've gotten 26 bed referrals in the last three months. It's not even been four months. These students are are really significantly behind. There are lots of reasons behind this, some of it being, you know, coming out of Covid. Some of it's looking at our socioeconomics in Claremont and some of it's looking at screens. And what's that doing to our students language. And now I have all these three year olds without any language entering the preschool environment. So,  I think being in an elementary school, we can get a little bit more creative about how we can service these students and what preschool can look like. I think Ben has my notes. If I missed anything.
NEXT> Ben Nester: You hit all the lead points. Yeah. One thing. You can. Align the curriculum a little better, you know, and so that we are, you know, perhaps improving our, our

[14875-97] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (the preschool administrator defe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Christina (surname not stated): That would be great.
TEXT> We're going to, you know, increasing instructional minutes for the kids is another advantage.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much.

[14875-99] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much.
TEXT> I got just a couple of other things  to that. We also want to  build our school families as quickly as we can. And bringing preschool into the fold early brings that entire family into our school into our school mix early. So services such as guidance and our social worker again, additional supports not just to students but to families as well. We also want to think about the goal of every administrator here tonight. And those even not here tonight, is to think about how do we enrich a child's education even further than than what we've previously been able to do?  Really, we'd be able to enrich preschoolers in several ways, as Ben just mentioned, introducing them to what is what is PE, music library technology? They're well versed in technology, but let's channel that in a different way.  As I mentioned, additional resources and interventions to families, but also to students. We never want to hold a child back because we don't have something in place for them when they're ready to go. And that collaboration between preschool and kindergarten also affords,  better alignment and curriculum.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Having students ready, ready to go, making families aware of kind of what those expectations are. And I want to echo something that Heather said because I was ready to

[14875-100] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Melissa Lewis: additional resources and interventions to families, but also to students. We never want to hold a child back because we don't have something in place for them when they're ready to go. And that collaboration between preschool and kindergarten also affords, better alignment and curriculum.
TEXT> Having students ready, ready to go, making families  aware of kind of what those expectations are. And I want to echo something that Heather said because I was ready to clap. Heather, in all honesty, the two greatest resources, in my opinion, that we can give our children, our teachers and investing in preschool. And so the thought of cutting teachers certainly didn't sit well with any administrator. And so hence the creative thinking about how do we do business differently? Well, still, increasing what we offer students in preschool is, is one of those resources. And with this switch, I think we can get much closer to universal preschool because we will be gaining some room in our buildings. There is not currently in any elementary school additional room for anything,  even storage. I have teachers right here in this audience that can tell you that firsthand. So certainly looking at class size is a concern  because our classrooms are full, not necessarily with students larger furniture due to Covid.  The additional supplies that we've brought in with the wonderful programs we are adding. So there's a lot of factors to that. I'll. The other thing, I'll be honest, I joke all the time that I'd love to have an infant program nearby as well, because when there's an infant around, nobody misbehaves because we wouldn't want to upset the baby, right?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Younger students bring out the best in older students, and I know at all three of the elementary schools, we do a lot to partner younger and older. So again,

[14875-113] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (addressed on the recording as 'a | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> I have two concerns. One is a reduction of staff  concerns. Me I understand recommended targets for numbers of kids in a classroom.  Numbers are one thing. And what's behind the numbers is another level of need.  The amount of support needed. You know, what's in the best interest of each of those children, rather than them just being a number. So that is a concern for me.  My other concern is ensuring that parent concerns are heard and planned around. Right. And so that we're able to reassure families that  their children that there are benefits for their children. To this,  I think parent voice is incredibly important, and we have to listen to that, respond to that and learn from it. Because the beauty of multiple stakeholders talking is that we learn from other perspectives, and we need to ensure that we have that as part of this process.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you.

[14875-118] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: more personalized and makes it the environment feels smaller. We like to recognize when they do things great, just like the school does, but it also allows us to continue to grow certain areas in the in the arts, in the music, in the theater.
TEXT> That in giving those kids those opportunities that they had at the middle school, but also continue to have at the high school level because, you know, we want to continue to grow those programs, but it also allows us to have eighth grade students who may excel in the eighth grade curriculum and have proven that it's not enough for them, so they don't get bored. They could essentially move into a a high school level class where if over time we get more and more in this, it allows kids to, you know, complete all the credits within three years and graduate early. Or, you know, if we start going down that road, what does that look like? Their senior year? We can open up more opportunities to see actual job placement, get their community service. I was done. So actually gives an opportunity for these students who may get board in the eighth grade to challenge them or get their credits in earlier and offer more opportunities down the road.  It also gives an opportunity for,  bridging that gap we see sometimes coming from a middle school to a high school, what's here or anywhere else that now the teachers in the building so we can align our curriculums more, we can,  we can look at where they end up and where they begin now, because I know that's a lot.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Every year we have those transition meetings with middle school and high school, and a lot of times they're still, you know, we we think they should be going in

[14875-120] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: I've been here and I've been in a lot of high schools, I think the biggest effect we're going to see for the eighth grade is coming in is the role models and the examples that the upperclassmen will set for the eighth grade students.
TEXT> And we have a tremendous student body. And,  I'm proud of where they are and where they continue to grow. And I think just having the eighth graders see that by the time they get to the ninth grade year, you'll see a different level of maturity. You know, some of the some of the cons is that we we would see in any situation is the transition. We've made great strides this year and building school climate. And I think, you know, that might go back a little bit, but we'll get back to where it is.  So I see more benefits, pros and cons of moving the middle school eighth graders up to the high school. And it's not an unusual model where a lot of schools where you have decreased enrollment,  that a lot of places go to, like I said, in a 8 to 12 or seven through 12. So you can provide more opportunities  for these students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you, Mr. Pratt. Just I want to ask Mr. Romeo too, since he currently has the eighth graders, if he had anything to add to that. I think it

[14875-122] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (the chair: 'I want to ask Mr. Rome | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, Mr. Pratt. Just I want to ask Mr. Romeo too, since he currently has the eighth graders, if he had anything to add to that. I think it was.
TEXT> The only thing I was thinking about as Mr. Pratt was talking is the opportunities that I know,  that will be afforded to the eighth graders, whether it be through the tech center,  and other classes and courses that we can offer.  And I do think and looking at all the eighth grade classes as they struggle to make that jump into high school, to be able to offer some of those things, I think we'll set them on a path quicker,  which will keep students in school. And that's really what we want to do. We want them to get an education. We want to make sure that everybody has the opportunity. And I think being able to offer that a bit earlier and being able to work with fifth graders earlier is really going to help maintain  that for our students. The other thing I want to say, which my staff is going to tell you, this is where I talk too much,  but I drive 45 minutes, 50 minutes a day easily to come here. And I pass a lot of schools and a lot of districts, some which I  applied to before I came here, but I, I drive here and I come here because I believe in the people I work with. I believe in the community that I serve, and I believe in the kids,  that we're able  to be a part of and, and help structure.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And we're in a tough situation and we have to make some tough decisions. But I hope taking a look at this helps to keep the integrity of what's special

[14875-128] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: for our high achieving students at Stevens, specifically AP courses and, and and more rigorous electives that would make them competitive candidates to top ranked schools. I'm just wondering if you see any leverage points to increase those opportunities in the next three years. Say.
TEXT> Yeah, I think there's huge opportunities there. But before, because a lot of times,  in middle schools in general, is that for these students who want to excel as much as teachers and administrators want these students to excel, the opportunities aren't there. It's like I said, you have eighth grade students who can prove to us, you know, that they're they're excelling in their eighth grade classes. And for English class or, or  or science class is that we can meet with them and their families in the councils and say, okay, they're ready now to take eighth grade credits that will go towards graduation. And I know we have a lot of those students, but we're able to really look at the individual students on a level and offer those opportunities for them to excel, possibly complete their four years in three years and have them in that final year experience a, a college class,  or for the students who are going right into the workforce, give them the opportunities to actually work in the field before making a major decision at such a young age of what they want to major in. But I think there's there's there's more opportunities with that than there are in the current model. We're able to raise the bar for kids,  as groups and as individuals. We'll look we're able to personalize their learning more at that stage.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you. Just one more to pay you back off of what you were saying. So what I'm hoping you'll you'll say to me is that if what I'm

[14875-137] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School (introduced by the chair — 'Mr. Pratt i | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mike Koski: Yeah.
TEXT> And I just like to finish by saying that I've worked in a lot of high schools over the years of my 30 years, and I've been so impressed. And it's pretty much what Frank says. I drive an hour from Brattleboro every day, and there are other places that I could have gone. I came here for a reason, and then when I got the assistant principal job, it wanted to apply to be the principal job, because I was so impressed with the level of dedication that the teachers at the high school show on a regular basis, watching out for each other, watching out for the students. Like, for instance, we don't have a lot of we don't have a huge sub pool. They're always stepping up and covering for their colleagues that that's that's very rare, where usually that if you don't have a sub, then the students have to go to the auditorium or something and the learning doesn't take place. We have such a dedicated and I think it's cross a district, but I can only speak firsthand from the from the high school, such a dedicated, dedicated group of teachers that come to work every day for the same reasons we all do, because we we like where we are and we like what we do.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And the students on top of that. Like I said, I've I've been in the urban cities and I've been in rural areas. I've been so impressed with the student

[14875-146] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2 — his self-identification | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I open it up to the public? Seeing nothing at this time, and we're going to open it up for public comments? We're we're trying to follow the rule of three minutes per person. So, Mr. Putnam, I saw you first and then Miss Ryan.
TEXT> Thank you. David Putnam. Ward two.  This. Would be. A question to the superintendent or the assistant superintendent. It's obvious that this current situation is driven by your,  budget cut. And so if you are producing a plan of to improve student achievement, how would that compare with what you're presenting tonight? And what kind of data and information can you provide to us to prove that this plan will improve student achievement with expectations that you envision for our for our school district and our students now saying that one of the best things we can do is invest in early childhood development. So moving the preschools to the elementary schools, for all the reasons we heard, is a very positive things to do. In fact, in the best world, we would have a preschool program that starts when the children are two years old and their early childhood development, then developing an IQ for learning would be huge and the results would really show up on their in fourth grade. So. So how does this now plan induced by your budget cuts?  Support the idea of student achievement to match improvements with our test scores and meet the expectations that so many in the community are relying on. First step.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You want me to go.

[14875-152] David Putnam | Public commenter, Ward 2 — recognised by the chair as 'Mr. Putnam' and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: each level. So, that's what I'm excited about, about the, the ways in which you could grow upon it in terms of proven studies that would prove exactly where this is right now. I don't have those for you. Right? Right now, like I like.
TEXT> So what's your gut feeling about how it will improve test scores and student achievement?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So I think we're already we've shown gains already in the past three years, even during Covid of increasing that, slightly. But when we look at the historical scores

[14875-157] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'a question for Mike' an | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Someone's got it.
TEXT> So the factors that impact student learning the most are quality teachers. And that's why if you have a class of 30 or a class 15, if the teacher in front of the students is very skilled, then students make gains. When we lose a quarter to a third of our staff every year, we can't develop that large impact quality teacher staff and the teachers who've been with us or quality teachers. And so it's a little bit of a side piece, but the teacher contract, we think is really what's going to help us retain staff. And then through coaching models, we can develop all those teacher skills, and then we see the improved student results.
NEXT> David Putnam: Okay. Thank you.

[14875-166] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair (named by two public commenters: 'Heather refe | 2023-02-01
PREV> Mimi Rhines: So that's I think I think that's a major question that the public is going to want to know.
TEXT> Is we would not. My my impression is, is that compressing this class sizes, moving the children the fifth to six,  the eighth to ninth allows for pre-K, right.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: So if everything goes, all the money goes in next week and the budget passes.

[14875-181] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 — onset of / thanks after her own remarks | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Candy.
TEXT> I have. Candace Crawford, Ward two. I have  3 or 4 points.  Number one,  the,  Heather referenced cost per students, and I did look up the data. The average cost per student for New Hampshire is 19,400. For Claremont in the same report was 18,400. So $1,000 less average cost in areas  districts close to us. Fall mountain is 19,900, Newport is 19,000, unity is 2000, Lebanon is 23 for and Cornish is 256 again, Claremont is 184, so below the state average and below all the other surrounding districts. Number two, I think that it's really important to talk about,  giving a  college, you know, giving our students the ability to get college courses and have articulation agreements with various area colleges. I think it's also important for us to remember that 35% of our students don't do not go on to any further education, 35% and 25% of our beginning freshmen do not graduate. That's those two significant factors. And we've got to address that.  The third is it feels like as I've been looking at this curriculum development is is so important. And getting the curriculum in line,  I think that  contributes to student achievement and success. And it feels like this plan,  it's like rearranging the chairs on the deck of the boat without addressing the curriculum.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's just figuring out where the kids are going to go, what school. Without a significant impact of addressing curriculum. And then the fourth point is, I don't think it's

[14875-182] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified; recognised by the chair as  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: looking at this curriculum development is is so important. And getting the curriculum in line, I think that contributes to student achievement and success. And it feels like this plan, it's like rearranging the chairs on the deck of the boat without addressing the curriculum.
TEXT> It's just figuring out where the kids are going to go, what school. Without a significant impact of addressing curriculum. And then the fourth point is, I don't think it's fair to the voters of Claremont to make this an either or. Either you support the teachers contract and cut $1 million, or you leave the million dollars in and you don't support teachers. I don't think that's a fair comparison. I think that we can support the teacher's contract, which I do. However, we don't have to cut $1 million, and I think we need to give the citizens, the voters of Claremont, a chance to support the schools wholeheartedly. My one question at the end is a 15% reduction in staff equates to how many,  positions would that be cutting? Thank you. Of course.
NEXT> Mike Koski: 6 to 9. I guess.

[14875-191] Arlene Hawkins | Public commenter, Ward 3, 592 Redwater Brook Road (self-identified) —  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: new restructuring. Are we maintaining our commitment to our staff and the commitment to our schools by rushing into this? The physical classrooms that I heard are crowded, and if we're increasing class sizes, will students have opportunities to move around within their own classroom?
TEXT> And have we looked at certifications for teachers, specifically middle school, moving into the high school, and how how is that impacted? All of this requires time to listen, to plan, and to implement, being driven by best practices rather than a financial reduction. Will this reduction of $1 million help to advance opportunities for economic development within our own community? You know, I was very glad to hear Mr. Tempesta say that you are expanding the tech center. That's a real jewel in our community. That also can enhance our economic development by guiding our students into trades, owning their own small businesses, and pursuing further advancement. Educational support has to reflect the needs specific to our community, not minimum standards. I did have questions, many questions for tonight, and I did send them ahead of tonight's meeting. During the presentation, I did not hear them address and maybe someone can clarify them for me tonight. Thank you. I did sin, I did.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yeah, we received them. But in all fairness, it was probably three three hours before the meeting, so it doesn't leave a lot of time to. I mean, people may

[14875-199] Lisa Holtz | Public commenter — Claremont resident and elementary school teacher; o | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: All right. I've seen numerous has I think I saw your hand first, so. Yes, miss.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Lisa Holtz,  I'm a Claremont  resident, and I'm also an elementary school teacher. And, I think you're going to hear I know you're going to hear a different side. The a different side of this. So the nuts and bolts of student learning are teacher student relationships, strong student social emotional skills, and quality instruction in order to build solid teacher student relationships, we need time with each student programs such as Responsive Classroom and the time to implement them well, and teachers personal wellness. You know we need we need to have some time with the kids not running around and just doing the basic stuff, absorbing more students with into classes with less teachers is not indicative to quality teacher student relationships. As you know, each child is unique, with strengths and challenges in social emotional skills and academic skills.  This I'm wondering with,  Heather Whitney's comment about the free and reduced lunch and that we're down a down in the in that percentage. I don't think that addresses our social emotional needs of our students. That does not address it at all.  There are kids that are that have lunches from home that have truly, they are way behind in where they need to be. And if you don't have if you don't have social emotional skills, you are not going to access academics. You will not.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: Additionally, many of our students families struggle with basic social, emotional, financial, and academic skills are not, and they're not equipped to provide the support needed at home. That means

[14875-200] Lisa Holtz | Public commenter — Claremont resident and elementary school teacher (s | 2023-02-01
PREV> Lisa Holtz: There are kids that are that have lunches from home that have truly, they are way behind in where they need to be. And if you don't have if you don't have social emotional skills, you are not going to access academics. You will not.
TEXT> Additionally, many of our students families struggle with basic social, emotional, financial, and academic skills are not, and they're not equipped to provide the support needed at home. That means our jobs as educators is even more important. Restructuring fifth grade students to CMS and eighth grade students to Stevens seems like a good decision regarding economics and maybe some academic more,  opportunities. However, it also fails to consider the social emotional needs of our younger students. In this current time with TikTok and with all the stuff that they see all the time when they go on their games and they're talking to their friends, and that's who they spend all of their time with, all of their time. They're faced with making decisions that are well beyond their developmental, emotional, social, and physical capability. Children and youth are privy to social media, just plain media, burdening peer pressure to experiment with and accept behaviors. There are far too heavy a burden for their age.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I'm sorry to interrupt, but that was your three minutes.

[14875-206] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — onset of her self-identification | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: One of information, name and ward, please.
TEXT> Oh. I'm sorry, Jennifer Austin and I just moved. I'm sorry, but now my heights. I've moved out of Ward. Thank you. I've moved out of the state because of school reasons and financial reasons. Had to move back, but am seriously considering because my seventh grade daughter is sexually being assaulted at school.  I've notified and I would like answers to figure out what's going to happen to these children because my daughter herself, her friends multiple not only female but male students are being affected by students and we have notified the proper people and it gets lost. And I understand that. I have had multiple conversations with multiple people in this room, and I understand that now  something is being worked on about this, but a parent has to stand up and I always say, oh, I wish I could go to that meeting. I should have gone to the meeting. Someone has to say something. There is a huge issue with behavioral  of a 12 year old and a 12 year old at this point that I am dealing with on a legal level where there are 12, you can't legally do very much.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: The teacher's hands are tied between what is right and what is the law. Board of education, everyone a right to a education. I'm sorry, my blood is boiling right

[14875-207] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (self-identified | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: meeting. Someone has to say something. There is a huge issue with behavioral of a 12 year old and a 12 year old at this point that I am dealing with on a legal level where there are 12, you can't legally do very much.
TEXT> The teacher's hands are tied between what is right and what is the law.  Board of education, everyone a right to a education.  I'm sorry, my blood is boiling right now. So,  not only verbally is she being assaulted, but physically being assaulted, and it's going to determine her future.  I have two more children to go through this, and I working very hard. Excuse me, but I can't continue this with this school and not feeling like these girls can say anything because they are saying we. I'm not saying something because he gets worse, he gets more mean. They get worse in. I worry for these kids who are going to have to go into this high school. You're worried about 12 year olds and 12 year olds. What is going to happen when you mix these 1213 year olds with 17 and 18 year olds, and they don't know they're in my school. I can be attracted to them. Or these boys with these girls, some dress inappropriately and they they know better, but they don't do. So we're going to be with title nines, with legal action of assault and two minutes in a hallway with a child being groped by another person, or in a classroom where they're being sexually touched and have to physically move, but afraid I'm going to hit him because now I'm going to get in trouble.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: That is words from my child. If I hit him, I will get in trouble. So I did nothing about it. If I say something, he gets more mean. So

[14875-208] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (self-identified | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: of assault and two minutes in a hallway with a child being groped by another person, or in a classroom where they're being sexually touched and have to physically move, but afraid I'm going to hit him because now I'm going to get in trouble.
TEXT> That is words from my child. If I hit him, I will get in trouble. So I did nothing about it. If I say something, he gets more mean. So it went from her being sexually  assaulted to verbally picked on pictures, body shaming. And it's not just my daughter, but I'm telling you by talking to other parents, they they don't want to deal with it. I don't work full time. I  just started working part time.  I really I know I'm out of time, but I do have sides of both educationally and student related concerns with this.  But I really want I had to say it tonight because this is where it needs to be said. So you guys can know  that there is a a problem with these teachers can't handle these children. I mean, I'm I'm at turning points network today talking about  with an advocate how to handle this legally and educationally for my daughter. And I'm getting a call from the school and they're she's being sprayed in the face by another student with Fabrice. So it's never ending. And it's not even the same kid. It's it's never ending. Well, where's the teacher?
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: In the hallway, monitoring the kids during intermediate. So do you understand how frustrated I am and that there is a huge concern between. Yes, it may benefit them educationally.

[14875-209] Jennifer Austin | Public commenter — parent of three Claremont students (self-identified | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jennifer Austin: and educationally for my daughter. And I'm getting a call from the school and they're she's being sprayed in the face by another student with Fabrice. So it's never ending. And it's not even the same kid. It's it's never ending. Well, where's the teacher?
TEXT> In the hallway, monitoring the kids during intermediate. So do you understand how frustrated I am and that there is a huge concern between. Yes, it may benefit them educationally. As she said, social emotionally they are not on the same level. And that I did report these to an administrator. And then after speaking with the principal, he never heard about it. Never. Not one report, one request. I requested the second offense. I said, this is a two time offense. I would like this research as assault at this point and I never heard back.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. So thank you.

[14875-214] Raquel (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — PTO president at Maple Avenue School, paren | 2023-02-01
PREV> Raquel (surname not stated): My class was the first class through that wing. And then we went to high school. We went from seven period classroom a day to block scheduling, which was not, you know, our of the norm. That was what a lot of schools were pushing.
TEXT> And I can tell you as a student that grew up through this with a range of classmates,  those of us supported at home, those of us growing up in homes where we had parents who were attentive, grandparents that were attentive. We had community members and teachers that thoroughly stood up for us. We thrived. Didn't matter that we changed grades or schedules every year for 4 or 5 years in a row. Didn't matter. The kids who come home to not attentive parents or grandparents, whoever they are, housing with,  the students who are home by themselves. The students who,  for example, my son brought a classmate a pair of gloves because he hasn't shown up with a pair of gloves at all this winter. Those are the kids that fought through all of their schooling thought they had. They have no one at home to to support them, and when the school didn't have enough staff to support them, they fell through the cracks. I had 48 classmates that didn't graduate as seniors in our class, 48 that had to go through CAD or another program or just dropped out entirely. That's going to be a result of some of these transitions.
NEXT> Raquel (surname not stated): So are we willing to sacrifice? What are we willing to sacrifice? I am not against pre-K. I taught in this building down the hall when we had preschool. It's

[14875-219] Mary Lovett | Public commenter, Ward 2 — her self-identification, split across two d | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Mary. The words to. So I don't. Know if you. Recently saw, but our US Secretary of Education had a talk called Raise the Bar on the 24th of January. And in this discussion, I found points that I wanted to research further to include grant funding that we haven't thought about what we as a nation want to do to further our children's education and our possibilities of success. And so I came up with some of these things to look into, such as the Perkins Grant. We talked about the sugar River Valley Tech Center last time, and I found through this grant that the New Hampshire Department of Education offers running start dual enrollment classes through the CTA courses, and they fund it. So if we were talking about our vision community or our vision committee of what they discussed, trying to look at these grant opportunities to fund it, because as I mentioned in a past meeting, I, I try to prioritize alternative thinking.
NEXT> Mary Lovett: How can we collaborate with community colleges such as River Valley, who has a great childhood education program and possibly create a partnership where seminars are used at our school

[14875-224] Jenna Gage | Public commenter — second grade teacher at Maple Avenue School; onset  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Jenna Gage. I'm a second. Grade teacher at  Maple. I also live in Claremont off. Washington Street. I'm sorry, I don't know what word. I just decided to type this up as we were talking.  So going off of Lisa's points, as well as a lot of other people's  points, I believe the relationships of the students and the teachers will be affected negatively with these changes.  I've only been here for less than a year, but as I'm hearing this discussion, I was thinking of the demographic of the town and of my specific class. I'm hearing a lot of people tonight discuss the benefits of all these transitions and changes in these added electives for the students. However, I'm not sure we're all thinking of our specific classes and  our students, our kids, because personally, my students are mostly looking at my data two grade levels below where they should be. So if we're talking about all these high achievement and success rates that we want to see, we don't need these more electives, the reduction of teachers or the bigger class sizes.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: What they need is actually more teachers and more individualized instruction. In the academic areas of math and reading, the smaller group sizes will allow the students needs to be

[14875-225] Jenna Gage | Public commenter — second grade teacher at Maple Avenue School, Clarem | 2023-02-01
PREV> Jenna Gage: mostly looking at my data two grade levels below where they should be. So if we're talking about all these high achievement and success rates that we want to see, we don't need these more electives, the reduction of teachers or the bigger class sizes.
TEXT> What they need is actually more teachers and more individualized instruction. In the academic areas of math and reading,  the smaller group sizes will allow the students needs to be better targeted.  The students can't thrive in these added electives and choices that we're all saying we would love to see our children and students participate in. If they don't have those basic reading and math skills that a lot of these students in K through five are still very behind and and lacking of  so we need more teachers to help fill these gaps and help these students be on the grade level that they should actually be at. Again, thinking of the demographic of my students in my class specifically, I thought about all the changes in transitions and I know about I teach at Maple,  the fifth going to the sixth grade or the eighth going to the ninth grade, the high school speaking from my students. And I've only known them again for less than a year. I know that the more transitions that they have, the more changes they have. Their learning is interrupted. It becomes more challenging for them to learn from other teachers and their behaviors are increased. Do we have enough staff to support all these increases of behavior? I don't I really don't believe we do. I don't see their social and emotional needs being met or their academic  academic needs fully being met with these changes.
NEXT> Jenna Gage: So I personally see benefit in keeping K through five the way it's structured now.

[14875-235] Michelle (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — parent of a preschooler, a third grader and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michelle (surname not stated): 5 years takes to move it forward, and we're saying that we did it in 6 to 7 days. I don't understand why we can't put together a real committee with a purpose, with community members, with teachers, with parents, and really look at evidence.
TEXT> I have asked for three years for the evidence for the school district to provide me with why we are doing this. Where is the data showing that this is going to prove education? No one has given it to me in three years.  I'm not. There could be warrant in restructuring, but we need to look at our district, our needs. We need to look at. Do we have social emotional needs? Yes. Do we have like, maybe there is a restructure, but is this the answer? Was the other one? The answer I don't know. We have no consultants. We have no one who is really taking into account what our district really needs. We're shifting students. That's what we're doing. And if we're looking at looking at expanding opportunities, what are these expanded opportunities? What I hear is in sixth grade, in the third quarter, you can get into advanced math. That's that's that's an expanded opportunity. Meanwhile, there's no I don't know of any language at the high school level. We don't have foreign language. What what what enriching opportunities are we providing to these students? Thank you. And sorry. One last thing.  When the funds for funds are done, what happens next?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Right. That's the question. Thanks. Thank you.

[14875-237] Unidentified public commenter — Ward 3 school board candidate | His garbled self-identification ('Next on Ward three'), rendered ident | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Right. That's the question. Thanks. Thank you.
TEXT> Next on Ward three. I'm also  opposed to the majority of this,  decision that we're making tonight.  Simply because I don't think increasing class sizes ever will achieve a better student outcome. That's just my opinion. I know, Heather, you said there was a couple of camps kind of in that,  thought process.  And I do agree that this is a semi restructure. And my basis, especially my time on the board, is when we did talk about the restructure, we couldn't figure out in a year. So we're supposed to figure this out in a week.  And it just seems like it's really, really rushed. And I'm not saying this the whole thing is bad, but I think maybe if we took some more time and I know with the delivery session already set, that's kind of tough to do. And, you know, I think there's no one who wants to have the taxes raised, but it can't come at the expense of improving our education here. That's a big reason why I ran for school board last year and also running again this year, because we need people who have just been graduated through there like, no. Tonight, a lot of admin have been talking about the this big realization about the,  college credit in high school.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter — Ward 3 school board candidate: That's not new. I did it. Marian did it when she was in school with me. It's not new, so I'm not sure why that's being sold as a, you

[14875-241] Molly DeLuca | Public commenter, Ward 2 — former restructuring committee member (self | 2023-02-01
PREV> Molly DeLuca: that my kids go to Bluff Elementary. So I know we have a little bit more of a disadvantage with our population, but it is a serious concern. And even he has acted up in his class. And I'm like, that is not your behavior.
TEXT> And it's, you know, he's bored. He's seeing that these kids can disrupt and he's trying to get attention. So he's being disruptive.  So I just I don't see how you can increase class sizes.  I can't speak for any other elementary school, but at Bluff School, I. I just think that's a bad idea.  But, yeah, just to close, you know, it's the,  social and emotional,  concern that I have about moving fifth grade to middle school in eighth grade to high school. I just really think that that is one of the most important things to think about. Anyway. That's it. Thanks.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Is everybody had a chance to want to speak first? The first round. All right, so this. Conversation, I don't think people recognize me. Okay. So we can

[14875-243] Michelle (surname not stated) | Public commenter, Ward 2 — parent of a preschooler, a third grader and | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: everybody had a chance to want to speak first? The first round. All right, so this. Conversation, I don't think people recognize me. Okay. So we can go to anybody wants to speak a second time. We typically do two minutes. Okay. Yeah, sure. Michelle.
TEXT> She'll be in for two  one. One other quick thing I just want to say is before we look at increasing class sizes, I want to know from Ben Nester if we are, every para that is required, state mandated in a child's e, I p is fully staffed within our school district. No thanks. We're going to increase last sizes, but not provide the supports to the students.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Mr. Pope.

[14875-245] Scott Pope | Public commenter, Ward 2 — his self-identification and opening, split  | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Mr. Pope.
TEXT> Scott Pope, Ward two not going to speak to much of the budget. You probably. Already heard enough. About that. Except to. Say, I hear. The school board. Talk about. The AP. Students, the top 10 to 15. Percent, the. Students who need a lot of learning help, you know, the bottom 10 to 15%, your behavioral issues and all that. I just implore you have to think about the students that I taught a lot of that middle 70%, the student that just kind of gets lost because they just take the basic credits and just want to get out of school, or they get B's and sees they just get looked over because they're getting the beads and C's. Just think about that. I wonder about class sizes losing that student, because in a large class you always I taught. I mean, I taught large classes, small classes and engineering. You always remember those top students and bottom students, but somehow there's about 70% of the kids that just seem to get lost in the middle. And those are the ones I've always worried about.
NEXT> Scott Pope: Those are the ones that don't seem to quite make it to college sometimes or into trades, whatever. So a procedural question regarding the budgets, the default budget for 2324.

[14875-279] Cassandra Edwards | Public commenter, Ward 3 — parent, citizen and teacher at Disnard Elem | 2023-02-01
PREV> Cassandra Edwards: That doesn't stop at the building that comes up here, too. So when we get pulled into a meeting with our principal that says the school board has boated, has approved your contract and voted to cut $1 million, and we have no idea why.
TEXT> But all we keep hearing is we're going to restructure. It gets very confusing and it gets very obviously, you've heard from a lot of educators tonight that are all about, well, what's going to happen to our kids, because that's our first priority as educators in this district. What is what's happening with the kids? We want them to be okay. But when it comes to turnover and teachers who are staying in the district, it comes down to do I feel supported? Do I feel like the rug is going to be pulled out from under me the next time I turn around? I've worked in districts when I didn't feel supported by my administrators, and I wasn't sure what was happening at the school board and I. That's what you need to keep teachers here. We need to have a consistent staff at the Dow. I don't I don't know who HR is right now. We've had turnover there. It's confusing. The curriculum we're using has been around because we keep having turnover of personnel involved in, you know, evaluating our curriculum programs. Those are the things that keep seizures in district. That's what helps our students. And that's what I came to say.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you.

[14875-284] Unidentified public commenter — second turn | Onset of the second-turn commenter's remarks; never named | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: So thanks. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just have. Two things to. Say and I'm. Done for the night.  I heard someone say they had been in the elementary classrooms where kids and people in the room have difficulty moving around. I see the projected class size for next year's grade three at 21 and two of the schools. That's an increase when you're already dealing with a specific size room that should be taken into consideration. Also, I heard a statement tonight about the community can come and restore the budget. And as I sit here, I think how unfortunate that our school board would have the community come forward to vote against you rather than work hand in hand with you in support of our students and our families.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any further comments from the public?

[14875-345] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member (the tech center director answers her visioning-co | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: Closing activities.
TEXT> I have one more comment to make. I would like to formally request, and I don't want to make a motion for this, but just from me, on behalf of the parents of the middle school students, I need you as soon as possible to get with the principal of the middle school, investigate these accusations and events of sexual assault, and literally shut it down. I am not kidding. As a student who has experienced very similar things to what these parents are talking about, I just want to share this story. To be candid, I was in the same position as your daughter where I was groped and sexually assaulted by a student, and the teachers didn't do anything in the seventh grade, to the point where I and I'm going to admit this, to get to let you know how how I understand what your daughter is going through. It got to the point where the student touched me in the library when it was just me, him, and one other person in the library. I had to push him over the chair and then punch him in the chest to get him to leave me alone. And I don't want to see any girl in this school district have to do that.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: So I need for the parents of these boys to get them the help they need. Get yourself to help you need for the administration and the principals to shut

[14875-346] Whitney Skillen | School Board Member (the tech center director answers her visioning-co | 2023-02-01
PREV> Whitney Skillen: and one other person in the library. I had to push him over the chair and then punch him in the chest to get him to leave me alone. And I don't want to see any girl in this school district have to do that.
TEXT> So I need for the parents of these boys to get them the help they need. Get yourself to help you need for the administration and the principals to shut it down. Because this is not the first time I've heard this story. All last year when I was campaigning and walking through those carpool lines, parent after parent of daughter after daughter was telling me about what was happening in the middle school to their children. And as an auntie, I do not play. We need to shut it down. Shut it down. Little boys who are not reprimanded when they are acting like sexual deviants, turn into sexual predators. And I will not have it. Not on my watch. Shut it down. Thank you. Yeah, I. Know today.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: I could say something. After that.

[14875-352] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (named on the recording: 'As Mr. Tempesta shared | 2023-02-01
PREV> Michael Petrin: I'm going to get back to order here. I think I think we've we've asked the administration to take a look at this and make sure it's addressed.
TEXT> I we. Have taken a look at it. We've been in communication.  That that has happened. I don't want to give the impression that we haven't done that yet. We have. So there is, it is being dealt with. So I can't talk about specifics of this. I urge all of us not to talk about specifics of this and an open forum like this for a variety of legal and ethical reasons for the students.
NEXT> Jennifer Austin: So my reasoning for bringing this up is so that these parents and these girls know to say something because they're not. I'm not saying that this child or these

[14892-21] Steven Horsky | School Board Member, speaking from the floor as a Ward 2 voter (self-I | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. One wishing to speak in favor of this amendment. Anyone wishing to speak against this amendment.
TEXT> Even asking Ward two, probably the elephant in the room, because I'm the one that had the discussion about how I saw a way to save millions of dollars by looking at minimum standards. Very simply, everybody thinks that we're coming in here with an ax or a plus,  trying to cut the quality of education for the Claremont students. That's not accurate. We're looking at a way to condense and make it more efficient and productive for these students. There's been lots of misinformation at first, but everybody's saying, oh, we're cutting sports for the tech. No, but that is an area that could be saved and is not required by minimum standards. So we're not following the minimum standards. We're looking at ways to go about improving the quality of education, maintaining what we have in preparing for our future, such as a tech center renovation. That's not going to not cost us money. The other piece of the puzzle here that people are not thinking about is how we have talked about restructuring. One of the biggest things, the biggest hurdle of how to restructure was community schools. We did that. The only thing that happened here is the of the fifth grade, going into the middle school and the eighth grade going to the high school. There is not huge changes trying to respect the community input in make the most valuable use of impact planning for the future of Claremont students.
NEXT> Unidentified: Anyone else wish to speak to this? Is the the. Attendance, the school. Board meeting with this report. Steve made the motion to cut the million dollars, and at that

[14892-22] Unidentified | Moderator of the Claremont School District, presiding under RSA 40:13  | 2023-02-08
PREV> Steven Horsky: the of the fifth grade, going into the middle school and the eighth grade going to the high school. There is not huge changes trying to respect the community input in make the most valuable use of impact planning for the future of Claremont students.
TEXT> Anyone else wish to speak to this? Is the the. Attendance, the school. Board meeting with this report. Steve made the motion to cut the million dollars, and at that moment, I felt that it was a reckless move because even though he had presented, traps, knowing what minimum standards are in the after, it's very rare. A school district in the Hampshire follows the minimum standards because for the most part, it does not deliver the type of education a lot of us expect from our children. Well, that being said, with the main purpose of this budget, I feel, is the teacher's contract. We always are behind other school districts pay schedules for their staff, and it really affects how long some of us teachers stay here. Many of them move on after the train here, have experience here and move on to local area towns to first still teach their craft but also earn more money. Some teachers earn up to 20 to $30,000 more than what we paid here. This budget is very important to pass this contract. So because of that, I'm not in favor of of this amendment because I think that it is expands the difference between a proposed budget and a department to a place that a lot of people might not support.
NEXT> Unidentified: The proposal that adding to the restructuring this budget can pass or not, and you restructuring could still happen. One feature about restructuring that was not mentioned is it also

[14892-23] Unidentified | Voter from the floor who attended the board meeting where the $1,000,0 | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: very important to pass this contract. So because of that, I'm not in favor of of this amendment because I think that it is expands the difference between a proposed budget and a department to a place that a lot of people might not support.
TEXT> The proposal that adding to the restructuring this budget can pass or not, and you restructuring could still happen. One feature about restructuring that was not mentioned is it also starts a preschool program that all of the elementary schools and that is very near and dear to me. Preschool education. Excitable development is one of the huge, most important things you can do for developing the children's IQ for learning. Time this department. Thank you. Anyone else who hasn't spoken like to speak to this amendment favor or against? Anyone who's  spoken like the speaking and. Recognizing that. For. The first time. Someone like the speaker passes speaking. Shelby in Ward two. I'm gonna. Put it. Sorry. He does sign. This one here. You put your name, names. I didn't I didn't have. A chance to read all the rules, and my time is starting. I'm not sure if I'm for this or against this. No, I guess anyone who would like to speak to the men, speaking. To the amendment of putting the money back in, and I am referring to the restructuring proposal, and I speak to that. I'm sorry. I can't hear you. Michelle. Michelle. Thanks, Mike. My question is, I'm. Speaking. For this, and I've heard, Mr.  Speaker,  about the restructuring. Heather Whitney speaking there she was against the amendment for the restructure.
NEXT> Unidentified: My comment is towards the restructure. Am I allowed to see that? You can you can speak everyone that whatever you want to say, as long as it's about the

[14892-38] John Wadsworth | Voter, Ward 2 (self-identified at the podium; the ASR renders the sign | 2023-02-08
PREV> John Wadsworth: put them in with 18, 19 year olds who thought that was a good idea. We already cannot handle the sexual harassment and the bullying and things like that in the schools currently. And you guys think this is going to be a good idea.
TEXT> You don't have enough parents, you don't have enough anything, and now you want to make money out of budget and then add more kids. You just it doesn't make sense. You guys have got to look back and look at your own kids. When your kids excel in that kind of a program. I know why you're struggling middle school because of the discipline, because of teachers. When the teachers are doing a great job. The problem is they don't have any support, and you have all these different IEPs that are supposed to be one on one. There's very few one on ones in this in any of these schools districts. And you think of many dollars out of it, stupid. Just you guys got to think of the bigger picture. The kids are already struggling. They go to college from Stevens and they're struggling to college. We need to do something better. We got to do something better for our our students in this, in this town. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Very much. Or two. Take it up. Let me talk about the millions of dollars that I saw when I looked at the slide, who was on the thing. Shifting

[14892-39] Unidentified | Voter, Ward 2, itemizing where the $1,000,000 could be found without r | 2023-02-08
PREV> John Wadsworth: to think of the bigger picture. The kids are already struggling. They go to college from Stevens and they're struggling to college. We need to do something better. We got to do something better for our our students in this, in this town. Thank you.
TEXT> Very much. Or two. Take it up. Let me talk about the millions of dollars that I saw when I looked at the slide, who was on the thing. Shifting two teachers to the local budget to grant budgets is 20%. Title two has nothing to do with restructuring behavior assistance to academic support specialists. Esser grants has nothing to do with spectrum at 60% of the million dollars at $600,000. If you take the $400 that is in the budget that we're holding on to for next year, there's $1 million most. And we don't have to do any restructuring to get the million dollars. So I don't see where we have to worry about restructuring. We can give the teachers of salary with the lower amount of money and still meet the $1 million cut without having to go through restructuring. Thank you. Is there anyone else would like to speak? A large number of. Staff who I. Am very close with have done. The same thing. Loved our school. Loved our kids. Loved our administration. Had to get out. For financial purposes.  My children all go to school. Here in the district, have had some amazing.
NEXT> Unidentified: Teachers and had some amazing academic growth because of that, and also have had a lot of struggles because they do not have teachers that are consistent in the district.

[14892-41] Unidentified | Voter from the floor relaying what teachers told her by email (name no | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: things that they provided insight on. They are spending 30 to 50% of their time, they feel managing behaviors. These teachers get a pair for one hour in their classroom if they're lucky, because that pair is not being pulled to sub for another classroom.
TEXT> Our sub  is two people, two people. So  I'm  putting the money back in because that's where our teachers are going to get their support. That's where our staff is going to get the people they need so they can actually eat a lunch, do planning and make an emergency phone call to schedule a doctor's appointment if they need to during the day, during business hours. That's all I've got to say. Is there anyone else that would like to speak to this amendment or to sign in? Yeah. Well, We can't put our older, already established students on the back burner. If we move these children around as planned, we are setting them up for failure. It would be a whole new social, emotional world that they have not mentally or physically been prepared for. My concern with reducing shifting staff and increasing class sizes by even one student in an actual daily reality that is currently happening in and out of these classrooms, we already have teachers stretched to thin, having to do jobs that are not paid for, even actually trained to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: We're looking at the budget versus jobs posted on the website. Are these honestly, honestly considered in the actual budget? We can't keep robbing Peter to pay Paul, keep the

[14892-42] Unidentified | Voter from the floor speaking against moving students and shifting sta | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: staff and increasing class sizes by even one student in an actual daily reality that is currently happening in and out of these classrooms, we already have teachers stretched to thin, having to do jobs that are not paid for, even actually trained to do.
TEXT> We're looking at the budget versus jobs posted on the website. Are these honestly, honestly considered in the actual budget? We can't keep robbing Peter to pay Paul,  keep the money in the budget and figure it out. Maybe consider using Mr. Lovett's ideas for finding a solution to the problem rather than a quick, easy fix. It was set at the last meeting when the decision to cut $1 million. The answer was to where that money was coming from was a no brainer. I knew it would be immediately from at least staffing. Why? And then I deal setting ID your restructure plan, there would be one teacher and one helper per class. We don't even have even close to that now. The administration has been so wrapped up in this budget. Stuff is affecting the attention of other important behavioral issues at hand in the district, and our children and in this community are suffering from it. I really hope that you can take my  and all of the other community members concerns seriously and stop worrying about money.  Can I just have two seconds? Worry about the real crisis at hand? We are in. So I agree, as many, many as other said tonight that the budget and the restructuring are two completely separate factors, and shifting staff and students is absolutely not being accepted. Good night. Good night. Anyone who hasn't spoken would like to speak. Seeing none, I. Allow. The opponent to the speakers.
NEXT> Unidentified: Again. I have to write it down 2321. I want to have a word. One. Want to speak in favor of the amendment? First of all, I want to point

[14892-47] Unidentified | Moderator of the Claremont School District, presiding under RSA 40:13  | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: And then I'll info the. If you can make and talk with everything you want and till I come back to order. Mr.. Please have two people. One of the end of the road. This is the amendment. No we're not. Holding on the amendment.
TEXT> We're going on the amendment. A  a yes vote would be to add the million dollars back  over to the budget. The we. Don't need to budget. That. A single. No, no. There may be much better is basically, in my opinion, the end of the year. Actually. Sean. Sean Walker said that I was going to say so. Yeah. All right. I'm going off of your movement, man. This is a pregnant possession. I'm ready on my back against the wall and see anybody in front of me. Well, you have to go. We're waiting for the. Hey, we're not breaking the rules. That's right. I don't even have a checking account like we should put them back in. And I was like, the escalation of the rules. When I was, like, a night. That's an expensive mic. I wouldn't, I just couldn't see it. Yeah. Reconsideration of word articles one and two a second. We have a motion and a second reconsideration of board. Act of one and two. What this means is that. A motion. To be. Strict reconsideration of award as the intent of Otis not be allowed to go back to further discuss and amend these animals, we'll have a voice vote on this, although they fight by saying I'm  opposed. Day the eyes having that concludes tonight's meeting. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your. Order. Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Candace Crawford, talk to. I'm wondering, with a new but a number of. Well, article two, will the default budget be altered?

[14892-51] Unidentified | Moderator of the Claremont School District, presiding under RSA 40:13  | 2023-02-08
PREV> Richard Seaman: What those budget. And I. Would. Really ask the board to consider revising the default budget so that the difference between the two helps preserve the vote. To to maintain this contract. Yes yes yes yes yes okay. To get folks to support. The budget.
TEXT> Okay. I have someone speaking during the meeting and I was going to say that. So if you could just hold on. Why. Do you need. To have a. Motion to close the meeting? No. I'm trying to do that right now. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your time tonight and remind you that the ballot session is Tuesday,  March 14th, 2023 at the second night. And now the meeting is over. I have two people, the ladies, I just stepped forward and Andy Bernier asked me just for a moment,  in front of you as first. So I'd like to ask him to make. Please sign it again.
NEXT> Andy Bernier: Thanks for indulging in for a minute. As many of you are aware, there is a long standing disparity in funding and resources between school districts in New Hampshire. Because

[14892-53] Andy Bernier | New Hampshire School Funding Fairness Project (the moderator names him | 2023-02-08
PREV> Andy Bernier: state and some of the brightest minds in education that thoroughly identifies the problem. The results recommend solutions, and so on. That report currently sits in Concord, with many legislators either unaware of its existence or unwilling to discuss its findings in a meaningful way.
TEXT> This is not the future that I want for our children in our state that most of us want. Policies are needed to address this issue, and that will lead to more equitable funding for all schools and students in New Hampshire, regardless of ZIP code. So I encourage everyone here tonight to take some time. Review the information provided by the New Hampshire School Funding Fairness Project. It's a group of people that are dedicated to this problem, that are trying to bring awareness to citizens all around the state, to legislators all around the state. And by learning about this issue, we can become more informed. More engaged citizens will work toward holding legislators accountable to our courts decisions of constitutional responsibility to ensure that all students in New Hampshire have access to a quality funded education, regardless of where they live. And these types of problems that we experience every year in this situation can begin to go away.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[14892-57] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Croydon (self-identified; House ed | 2023-02-08
PREV> Unidentified: Wow.
TEXT> I'm bringing this up to you folks tonight, because it is very clear that the audience in this room is pro education, pro teachers, pro what's good for kids. But you might not represent all the people who will come to the polls in Claremont to vote for the budget on March 14th. And so I just want to vigorously encourage all of you and anyone you can talk to, really strongly encourage your friends, your neighbors, your colleagues, your grandparents. 18 year olds can register to vote. They might be seniors in high school. They might care a whole lot. Just really trying to get out the vote is probably what's going to make the difference in whether you get the funding that you want to have. So  I've. Just encouraging you to really send postcards, make phone calls, maybe do signs,  but work for it.  And I hope that what you're after, I do have my business cards here. If anybody  wants one to be able to connect with me about education issues or other stuff at the state House, I'll be over there. And  thank you and have a good evening.
NEXT> 

[14909-7] Michael Petrin | School Board Chair (roll-call vote seg 468-471: 'And myself' / ASR 'Mi | 2023-02-15
PREV> Unidentified: I'll make a motion to approve the minutes as presented. Second.
TEXT> Second by Heather. Further discussion. In favor? I oppose any abstentions. Thank you. Moving on. Here, I want you to. Citizens. Comments. Any citizens I would like to speak at this time. Seeing none. I'm going to run to our student representative report. Good evening. Hannah.
NEXT> Hannah Petrin: Let's have winter enrichment this last month with students. Got to do all different kinds of activities. This now just had a performance of the snow Queen on the ninth.

[14909-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: doesn't go, we have to get on it that way. So I'm going to go up and ask folks that come up and present their piece of that. You're all on this. So, so. So we're going to. So. Think we're going to the gym.
TEXT> All right. All right. So we'll do we'll do safe space. So basically there are several parts of this  in  just go through.  When we talked about the reconfiguration obviously, you know, we talked about the situation that led to it with, with the million dollar reduction, the for the four biggest points  about this and are very important is that  primarily and let the principals, you know,   chime in when they want to chime in. But we, we have a really,  significant overcrowding, overcrowding and lack of space in the elementary schools right now. Title services are done in front of other kids in the library that Maple  Bluff. We are short rooms. We have some other crowding out for specialized programs. And it's a tough situation. The right sizing okay, of class sizes K to 12 to adjust to students needs and to the developmental needs and appropriateness of the instruction they need at each level. Now, what you're going to see,  at least for the second semester, average all the way through. And it holds true throughout all of the data that we looked at a ten year look back at the historic impact of class sizes. And to be completely honest, I was shocked to find out that the ten year average is lower class size at the high school in second semester than it is and second semester, because we do a we did a year end analysis.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's the second semester in a block schedule. And the average in all the elementaries for ten years is 16 students. Okay. So you'll see that data, the universal

[14909-45] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: class sizes. And to be completely honest, I was shocked to find out that the ten year average is lower class size at the high school in second semester than it is and second semester, because we do a we did a year end analysis.
TEXT> So that's the second semester in a block schedule. And the average in all the elementaries for ten years is 16 students. Okay. So you'll see that data,  the universal pre-K in each neighborhood elementary school. We simply could not do this currently with our configuration. Currently, the pre-K is up here as a remnant of  a  former tech center program. They are in isolation. Every member of the text of the excuse me of the elementary program, and the director will speak about that as well. They are ecstatic to be embedded in schools. They lose some of their team spirit and the amazing program that they got together over the years, but it's definitely to benefit the students. All right. The instructional coaching model at all schools. Granted, we can do this anyway when we're moving towards it, but it would be significantly focused  at the early elementary, excuse me, at the elementary interventions, because now we would have K through four concentration. We wouldn't have we'd have four grades. We wouldn't have five. We'd have more communication with title and the like. All right. So I just want to go through all of it. These were the general,  benefits that we discussed before alleviating the room crisis.  Embedded at each elementary school room to expand programing and interventions. And we can talk about those as well,  the coaching and interventions and more control  and expansion for class size. So that that is really important.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The very last bullet, we simply don't have any room in any buildings to do anything substantial for interventions right now at the elementary. And we wouldn't only way to

[14909-49] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Mike Koski: to an administrator and teacher that I've had any conversations with, everybody wants to see student improvement. And this kind of really kicked us into throwing more options on the table as to what could we do to move us out of that bottom 25%.
TEXT> And so we know looking at those blue highlights that we can move, our students are not destined to, to to live there. They can get out of that range and we can move into that middle percentage of the state average.  We just haven't been able to do it consistently. A big part of needing to do that is reducing teacher,  turnover so that we can keep our teachers and have them continue to make those improvements. So we think that and a lot of these great,  reconfigurations will get us there so that we can start to move more and more of our students out of this bottom quarter. And who's pretty pristine coming up. I think you're next. Yeah.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.

[14909-51] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> So just kind of looking at  a possible universal pre-K model, it's kind of a buzzword that's been thrown around a little bit.  But we have the opportunity if we move some,  grades around to make space for universal preschool model. And  that would just really be a historical moment for  this district to get a three year olds and four year olds to have,  preschool opportunities,  free public preschool  for all is,  I think the dream. So  just looking at  my enrollment currently. So this is just kind of looking at where, my current students are slated for schools, but if we can  make that a little bit more equitable across the board and make sure that all of the schools have access to  preschool, if we can get them in the door sooner,  hopefully that will help with our literacy and math scores that we're looking at improving, getting them in the door sooner. We definitely see kids coming in right now,  much lower than we'd like them to see.  Many of our students need pretty intensive interventions when they come to us at preschool, so if we can get everyone in the door sooner, get more interventions across the board.  Hoping to make some improvements, I don't know.
NEXT> Unidentified: Do you want to highlight on that?

[14909-54] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Mike Koski: Would you mind saying what those are? I forget how you phrased it, but the the extreme interventions you need, what does the student look like who comes to preschool? Needs a lot of intervention.
TEXT> Often we see kids,  who come to us completely non-verbal.  They've never been around peers before. They've never sat at a table and done any structured activities before. So  having a rich language environment, having,  access to school participation activities, having access to self-regulation activities, improving their social emotional development, these are all things that if they don't have access to these things before they step into those kindergarten classrooms, that's when those behaviors are happening. And we hear that teachers cannot handle those class loads that they have because the  the needs are so broad and the behaviors are  so intense, because these kids have never had any of those expectations or, really any of those skills taught to them before. So we can't wait till kindergarten to, to be teaching those skills to these kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[14909-57] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Are there any visual versus staying?
TEXT> Absolutely.  I think that the other  elementary principals can absolutely talk to the fact that moving from a half day very,  isolated preschool setting into a big elementary, full day program is a really difficult transition for these kids. We see kids that have only been in school for 2 or 3 hours before really, really struggle with that transition. They've never experienced being in these these big schools before. That's very overwhelming. We can see a lot more social emotional meltdowns,  and just a longer transitioning period that takes  a lot of extra support in those classrooms, those for six weeks of school when you're teaching those  transitions and expectations. So having the kids already there, having them already familiar with the schools routines, building just all of that, I think that's going to help with a lot of those transitions.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So just I want one clarification question looking at this chart, is it when I'm looking at the sending school pre-K enrollment and I'm seeing 20 and then I see

[14909-63] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: first to to have this and the how many fifth grade classrooms are there? Disney right now. I can speak to that. Helpful. Yeah. So, to go back to what you were referencing, Frank, what are the what are the space restrictions in the schools?
TEXT> Mine's a little bit different in that,  every space at Disney is completely utilized. Right. So if I ever had to add on an additional classroom, I simply wouldn't be able to do that. So I would have three currently right now,  three fifth grade classrooms exiting. And I would be welcoming two preschool classrooms.  What we do every year is we have currently we have three sections of every grade level, with the exception of one that only has two. And based on our enrollment and student needs that we decide which grade level would have the two sessions. Right now,  my third, my fifth grade has three. So I would be freeing up three classrooms and it would still give me the opportunity to, let's say, I get  I think one year I had an influx over the summer of 11 first graders. That's almost another classroom. And so again, that still gives me a room to have flexibility in case I need another.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: One and bluff.

[14909-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Christine Baker: two fifth grade classrooms, given our enrollment. So. Looking for space for them to add that classroom, we would need to do some shifting and looking for space. Did I answer all the questions? That's okay. Just one fifth would look for two next year.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. Our estimates is about a room left over at each building. And we still have to come into the consolidation and the shifting of the special ed programs after this, based on where the kids present by the end of the year. So that's the other one to work to work through. So the next. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: It looks like the. Preschool. Enrollment is weighted more towards Maple. Is that because Maple has the space to have more preschool children there? And if not, if if space

[14909-73] Stephanie (surname not stated) | Curriculum Director, Claremont School District / SAU 6 (called up as ' | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Be back. I guess the common theme is we have done these things before, and we see a lot of what has happened before that got sidetracked.
TEXT> So Christina is not on only our pre-K expert, but she's also been a part of a coaching model here in Claremont, because you can have things that work in other districts, but you not unique to this population. And so she actually has some things to share on down the road.  We do have this handy dandy slide with a unicorn on it that's really pretty. I don't know if anyone remembers My Little Pony, but that's a My Little Pony unicorn right there, I think.  But actually we went on a school visit on Friday to see Whitten Wisdom, one of the programs that we're piloting in our curriculum work. And one of the things that they were talking about, because, you know, we're back and forth about, is they're the perfect program. And they talked about there's no unicorns, only strong horses. Well, when we were talking about this, I was debriefing with  the team. And that's a wonderful analogy for us to be able to use to describe so many things going on in Claremont right now. We put so much on our teachers and expect them to be unicorns when they're strong horses. There's no mythical creature coming out of the woodworks to be able to save us right now, but there are some really strong things that we can do to boost student achievement. And the Haddie piece. I don't know if you were going to speak about how to. You go ahead.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And so in trying to build the strength of those horses, there's research about educational research done by John Hattie, and he tries to measure the effect size and which

[14909-74] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Stephanie (surname not stated): of the woodworks to be able to save us right now, but there are some really strong things that we can do to boost student achievement. And the Haddie piece. I don't know if you were going to speak about how to. You go ahead.
TEXT> And so in trying to build the strength of those horses, there's research about educational research done by John Hattie, and he tries to measure the effect size  and which is basically the distance between the group that didn't get the impact or the influence and the group that did. And the larger that distance, the greater the effect it's had on the students. And so the things on the left in green collective teacher skill, the more we can pour into our teachers and improve their ability, and then the higher level thinking skills, cognitive task analysis, making sure we're we're bringing students up to those higher levels of thinking tasks. The larger the impacts, they're on the right hand side. There are things that schools and teachers do that have less of an impact. And one of those has been to reduce class sizes. And it appears that  for a long time there's there's been an effort to reduce class size for many reasons. And it has a positive impact. It's just not as great at impacting with kind of limited resources. We'd like to focus on those things that are going to give us the greatest bang for our buck, the greatest amount of impact.
NEXT> Mike Koski: And so this research has been done, I guess it's it's been at least 10 or 15 years. It's it's pretty solid. We can we can find find it very

[14909-79] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (handed the floor at seg 77: 'I'll let | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The influence. Yeah, sure.
TEXT> So collective teacher skill. If you were to measure the skills of your teacher across the staff, how many of your experience, how many are inexperienced, what skills do they have collectively? You pull that all together. And as we measure that, you know,  the number of things every teacher can do in your school impacts the student. Cognitive task analysis is, are we always teaching kind of simple wrote skills, or are we pushing our students thinking higher and higher? And are we looking at the questions we ask to make sure we're pushing them higher and higher? Direct instruction is just dumping information at you. It's effective. It's boring as can be, but it works.  And then the feedback piece is those one on one. You did this. Well, you didn't do that. Well teacher to student. Here's where we need to improve and continue to have those kind of conferences along those lines. Audio visual methods. That's pretty self-explanatory. Just using all the computer stuff co where team teaching are two adults working together, maybe two adults that teach social studies and humanities together, or one might have  special education skills and the other teachers or content teacher and they work together to teach the class. And then programed instruction is kind of a scripted classroom where every class is getting the same information every day, all the time. Does that make sense? Yep.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah.

[14909-84] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Christina Sanford: what goals I wanted to work on. I worked on that goal for two weeks. She came back and observed it was a reflective session where we decided whether or not I needed to keep working on those skills or move on to something else.
TEXT> And you can see by May 2018. So by the end of my first year of coaching, I made a 27 and  27% improvement in my teaching skills.  So that's one year of coaching right there. And then looking at the next year, I also got another year of coaching. And  October 2018, I demonstrated 91% of the skills that they wanted to see. And then by the end of my second year of coaching, I was demonstrating 97% of the skills that they wanted to see. So  I put myself on blast here just so you guys could see what coaching looks like, why it's important, and really what it could do for our students in this district.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is nice because it's in the aggregate, but we also have okay, this is this is this is actually Christina's report.

[14909-100] Steven Horsky | School Board Member (chair: 'Stephen had a question' at seg 184; Heath | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: will really, really get legs. And it's also not taking away title teachers. It's, it's augmenting what we have for title for the pullout for kids who need targeted interventions. In addition to that, we'd have coaching to build the capacity. So one of to.
TEXT> Be clear, I think the one concern I have in the in the presentation is that it's not required by teachers. So that's kind of where the, the, the look I was going for,  was to clarify who and why they're selected. Because in my opinion, if we're developed, we have an ability to develop our teachers. And the fact that if we were selecting somebody for said program, and I understand that it some people don't like to be forced to do things. However, at that point, this is to better my children's experience in our school district. So I  just.
NEXT> Stephanie (surname not stated): So the coaching model, all the research behind the coaching model, as a coach, I'm not in a I build a relationship with teachers. Until you build that relationship, you're

[14909-113] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (UNCERTAIN: attributed by elimination - all six si | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: more effective concentrated, and we are going to do it either way with the hard work to get that grant to start, start seeing it. We already have people lined up for that, so that's all I had. I didn't mean to belabor it, but.
TEXT> So do we know how, free and reduced? That's really two different things. There's free and then there's reduced two different groups of people. Do we have any idea if we've got a 47% free reduced? How many of those kids are free? I know that we have all that stuff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's also kind of confidential.

[14909-122] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 / Claremont School District (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Bonnie Miles: And basically.
TEXT> To look at. And I'll say it like it is the most in need. School for a very long time because of the catchment has been bluff where we need more interventions  in other the longest where you see maple, the reason you see so many teachers there for a long time, there's two reasons. It has always been the seat of all the special ed classes in extra teachers needed  for at least ten years, maybe longer. We only went back ten and they are in.  Also. We have to put other teachers in because they're not, recognized as as title teachers as well. So and again, we had to pull this very quick. So my question was two parts. So well actually three parts. So I'm wondering why if we have free reduced lunch. So I'm going to just arbitrarily say 20% of those kids are free, but just for the heck of it.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: So why are we not using a head start? Those are those are the those are kids that are, at the poverty level. They need the same interventions as you're

[14909-132] Christina Sanford | Preschool Coordinator, Claremont School District (presents the univers | 2023-02-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: students didn't do as well down the road or we didn't see any gains. So what's what's in what's your vision of how we can ensure that if we are investing that it is going to be what would be considered very high quality preschool.
TEXT> So I could talk a little bit about what high quality looks like in my perspective, but also talking about that data,  that you're referring to, I think there I think there's also, some factors that, that go into that right now.  We are  a half time program offered a few days a week, and the families that can access that a lot of times are  working families. A lot of time our working families have to have full day and they're looking for daycare opportunities or they're looking for full day preschool. A lot of times,  the kids that were capturing are our  are  at risk kids. There are kids who don't have exposure. They're not they're not ready to at home. They're they're not getting the same experiences as some of those kids in those full day programs. With,  you know, it's not equitable. So when you're looking at that data, I think there are some skewed things to think about.  But also thinking about high quality. We want to make sure that we have highly trained teachers. We want to make sure that,  right now we have integrated services  within our programs. So what that looks like is occupational therapy centers, speech therapy centers for all kids working on,  the whole child development.
NEXT> Christina Sanford: So we're looking at social emotional development. We're looking at finding gross motor. We're looking at really the whole child. We're looking at play based, play based opportunities because we

[14909-210] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2; NH State Representative (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: You have your room for everybody, please.
TEXT> Oh, yeah. I came back from Concord. So doing the doing work down there as well. For the record, my name is Gary Merchant.  Ward two, Claremont, New Hampshire. So I think the reason we all are here tonight, for the most part, is trying to ensure as much as possible that we passed the teachers contract. I heard that time and time again. And if we don't find a way to close the gap between the proposed budget and the default budget, it puts it a greater risk. So I think by adding money back into it, and I believe the statute is written, you can add back in the default budget positions that were cut. So, Miss Gillan, to your point, the 60 $600,000 by putting it back into the budget because that was cut out of the budget, is a way to increase the default budget and close the gap between the two. Secondly, we just heard tonight wonderful things about teacher coaching and why we're trying to increase the contract with the teachers is to retain them. So if we're going to put more money into the teachers, which is a wonderful thing to do, and I think we should to help them become better teachers for our students, wouldn't it make sense, retain them and keep the investment here in Claremont?
NEXT> Gary Merchant: And as far as the third thing, it was very confusing at the deliberative session, I don't disagree. Facts were presented. What wasn't there was enough information to understand the

[14909-211] Gary Merchant | Public commenter, Ward 2; NH State Representative (self-identified at  | 2023-02-15
PREV> Gary Merchant: So if we're going to put more money into the teachers, which is a wonderful thing to do, and I think we should to help them become better teachers for our students, wouldn't it make sense, retain them and keep the investment here in Claremont?
TEXT> And as far as the third thing, it was very confusing at the deliberative session, I don't disagree. Facts were presented. What wasn't there was enough information to understand the facts. And that's where it got confusing. And I think a lot of people felt that they put the million dollars back into the budget. It would avoid the restructuring because the reason for the restructuring in the at the time was to close the million dollar gap. If we put the million dollars back into it, we wouldn't have to restructure it and go through structuring. So those are the three points we want to make. One, we really have to focus on finding a way to pass the budget to get the teachers the contract to deserve. We need to find a way to retain them so we have money put into them for coaching. It's the benefit of them as well as most importantly, to our students. And third, the liberal section was kind of confusing. That's my comments for tonight.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yes you did. Keep going. If you could. Okay.

[14909-215] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 - her self-identification, clipped into a boa | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Petrin: We have. Sorry.
TEXT> Michelle, be in Ward two. My. Question is I was. I've been at the board meeting with Liberal Sessions, and I think the way this whole process has been handled has been very confusing to the public. I was at the board meeting January 17th, $38 million was about to be passed. Quick five minute recess by the board. Million dollars is cut. No explanation. So as a public, we're left being very confused about what's happening and why there's a sudden cut from the money. The next thing we're being told is that a restructuring plan is being represented or presented to us to handle the $1 million cut in response to. But then we here at the deliberative session that a restructuring plan has been in the works for a while. And so we don't really have the answer. Is this in response to the million dollar cut, or is this something that's been in the works for a long time? We don't know why $1 million was cut suddenly in five minutes, when board was about to pass a $38 million budget. We don't even know  universal pre-K, and my understanding is that we can offer a space to every child in this school district A to attend the preschool. I love the preschool. I am all for universal pre-K. Can you tell me that in this plan, every child in Claremont that wants a space can have it?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's what we model.

[14909-289] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: around to the community. And I wanted to thank Zach Hurst from Kent, M for funding and helping provide supplies for that program. For us, it was a huge help. And I don't know if you wanted to say anything about how the program went.
TEXT> Oh, absolutely.  One we do it for the kids, right? It's an enormous amount of planning, and we always say, oh,  and then we've watched the first time the kids go out, we had kids doing everything from bowling to Jenkins to learning a foreign language to,  you're going to laugh when I say this yarn crafts. I have kids that now know how to knit and crochet and they're so excited. I had a teacher say to me, could we please extend it to six weeks? They said the kids just had an enormous time. It's absolutely one of the most spectacular things. So thank you. There's, there's it's such a great opportunity for kids. Those that go out into the community, they also get to connect with kids in other schools. So for example,  we sent 100, 120 children to the community center from all three elementary schools, completely took over the community center. So wonderful site. People were very gracious, but they were not only with their friends from school, they were their friends from across the district. So thank you. It's an amazing opportunity. Thanks. And here was a huge piece of that. As well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: My oversight. Michelle beaten.

[14909-291] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (speaks for Disnard - ASR 'Disney | 2023-02-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: My oversight. Michelle beaten.
TEXT> Every cause needs a champion here. Well hold on, but I am. For this reason. So every every cause needs a champion. And Michelle is a huge driver of the winter enrichment program.  Just an enormous amount of work was done by this lady right here to make sure that our kids had the opportunity, that we had all the details worked out, as you can imagine. Sending. Oh, gosh, we sent off almost four. Hundred. Almost 500 children into the community  to Pamela, our bus department. Like it takes so many wonderful people  to pull this off. And it's just a phenomenal experience for kiddos. We couldn't do it without. Without better factors. And,  and the donations and people doing the legwork, it's just a tremendous activity. So I just got to hear about quick to say.
NEXT> Michelle Beaton: That, Melissa Lewis here is not giving her self justice. And I will say that I did do a fair amount of work, but the principles and I completely and

[14909-292] Michelle Beaton | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID at seg 395 rendered 'Michelle, be in | 2023-02-15
PREV> Melissa Lewis: people to pull this off. And it's just a phenomenal experience for kiddos. We couldn't do it without. Without better factors. And, and the donations and people doing the legwork, it's just a tremendous activity. So I just got to hear about quick to say.
TEXT> That, Melissa Lewis here is not giving her self justice. And I  will say that I  did do a fair amount of work, but the principles and I completely and so thankful that you supported the winter program, but the principals themselves did so  much legwork behind this. They were the drivers of the winter program for our kids. And I can tell you that I just saw smiles when I was at the community center with over 100 kids and how happy they were.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And. We have. To say a huge shout out to staff, right? We can't just send these kiddos out 100 kids into a pool, into a gym, to a bowling

[14911-15] Stephanie Hurst | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 (named 'Stephanie' on the recording; surnam | 2023-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: And, they had asked us to put a hold until we had really come up with a more firm plan of what that would be. Is this part of that? Because I noticed that there is a walkthrough component to this. I'm wondering if that's.
TEXT> I can add what I know and then you add what you know.  So for this program, it's a very driven by walkthroughs and what we gather from seeing what's happening in the classroom district type walkthroughs, not for evaluation purposes, but as far as moving instruction along. So even now, we've conducted a few walkthroughs at Maple Elementary School from our letters training for administrative. So we go through and we look at where are they with their phonological awareness instruction and where could they,  focus their lesson planning to be able to make that more strong, robust instruction for their students? We also have the option to do that for phonics and,  multi syllable morphology in the upper grades. So  it is a part of it, but not for what he can tell you about which is the evaluation process.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. And that's that's the distinction this this would be for improved instruction, but there would be no evaluation piece tied with teacher knighted. And so it would be separate

[14911-53] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: examples of the strategy used to meet the goals, and the progress towards meeting the goals. Provide the self-evaluation the board would review those the goals, any examples that are provided, supporting documents which we talked about at the retreat and I'll talk about again.
TEXT> The board may collect input from constituents, which is another area that we talked about.  Board fills out and evaluation tool, providing constructive feedback and to identify opportunities for improvement. And then the board meets with the superintendent to discuss the valuation and set goals for the coming year. So that's the the gist of how we do one. Now let's get into a little bit more specific. I think I just flew by, So what will we do with the information? And this is something,  I think that's also very important to us to consider. I mean, one of the things we want to do is look at trends over the years. And so we need to collect data to make sure that as a as a joint district, we are moving forward with our goals for student achievement. So this by doing a  formal evaluation or going through the formal evaluation process, it it provides us the information, determine whether our strategies and personnel that we have are sufficient to achieve those goals. And that's really important because as we've noted, even in the last year, when we didn't have sufficient personnel in place to  perform the functions that were needed, it set us back a bit.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: It helps us identify areas in need of improvement for both the board and the superintendent, areas where we need more resources in particular, but effective communication, because I'm here

[14911-56] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: the ranking that each board member gave and is required if you ranked very low or very high, or if you are intimately involved in that specific goal area and have more information than the rest of the board, and you should also be commenting.
TEXT> So it's a fairly flexible tool. It has the area at the top that allows us to define the goal area. It has an area to link reference documents that go to the specific goals for each district, and we can also link  at the  at the formal evaluation process at the end of the year. We can also link  provide links to  any documentation that the superintendent has provided or any other documentation that we have can all be linked to the page for the specific goal area. So everything's all in one place when it comes time to do the evaluation. Okay. So this is where we start getting into some of the things that we discussed at the retreat, specifically  the evaluation calendar. We talked about two different calendars, one that was aligned with the election cycle and would be more aligned with board member experience.  For in going and out come out incoming and outgoing board members, the other being aligned with the school year. And the thing that the the benefit of aligning with the school year is that it also aligns with the time frame in which you would expect goal achievement and as well as resource availability. I mean, we typically we typically measure student achievement outcomes on a on a school year basis. So that would align more with the school year calendar.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: And we as a board provide resources that are based on the school year and not the election cycle. So I wanted you to get a look at what dates

[14911-63] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: board member, if you come into the beginning of an evaluation or the middle of the evaluation, just playing catch up, I think it just be the whole evaluation process in line with the school year, with the data that's being evaluated, just seems cleaner.
TEXT> Yeah. One question is one, exactly. Will we be getting that data? So we may be assuming that we're getting data a certain, you know, pressure point or but when when are we going to get a data achievement. Yes. Student achievement.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We should have most of that in.

[14911-71] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The state at one point. From the state. At the end of.
TEXT> The student. But we could evaluate those. That's what I'm kind of looking at is like, where are we in six months? And to be able to well, one of the things I know we've talked about at unity, and I know you've talked about it in Claremont because we stole your idea,  is the calendar for the school board. And one of the things we've added to our calendar is updates on student achievement. Now we just have one small school. And so it's a lot easier for us to collect achievement data. But I mean, just I ready  data. And whatever else is available.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's three times a year, right?

[14911-148] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board Member (Claremont) | 2023-02-16
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Heather, did you want to go.
TEXT> So I think as far as. The the community feedback piece is the, the piece that I've kind of been waffling here and I think we all get enough emails with feedback positive and negative. I think we get that on a regular basis. So I think as far as what we're trying to achieve with this, at least in my understanding of what we're trying to do, is we're trying to evaluate the performance of the superintendent upon his peers, his staff members, and how our children are in at the same time. The comeback is, are we being enough of a support to that? So  as far as I'm concerned, I think that the community piece is the piece I lose in this because we get their feedback, they have our emails, some even have my phone number, oddly enough, don't know how, but they do. It is what it is. So I think the community piece is the piece that I think creates way too much extra work, because I know I get enough emails to tell me that people aren't happy at times. Sometimes they are more often than not, not happy. But moving on, the real thing that we're trying to do is direct the educational process of the children, the outcomes and achievements of the children, and the workability between the two bodies, the governing body and the administrative body. So that's kind of where I would leave it. That's my opinion, Heather.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: We get our evaluations every three years, so either we get reelected or we don't. So to me that's like that's it. That's what the community says. And we either

[14911-174] Marjorie Erickson | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity School Board Chair | 2023-02-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: one, I know I've seen it and we have the averages on that. I think that's that's all I have for the right everything off as well. But I do think I agree, if we should have at least an update on a regular basis.
TEXT> Any questions. We have, we posted for the positions for mikes. All those were posted okay. I bet.  Yeah, yeah. We don't want to leave you short. Okay. There's no questions. Okay.  Number four, the proposed board meeting calendar. We've mentioned a few things that need to be on that calendar. We've talked about the review cycle that needs to be. Put on a calendar.  This year it came I became very aware of the fact that we need budget. On their very. Carefully, because we missed having a hearing for the say in December, which is when we should have had it. And so we need to put that on. So I'm thinking that we need to, have a meeting specifically focused on, a say board calendar, and it should include a on student achievement or whatever else we need towards our evaluation process. So what I'm going to I would like to continue this on another meeting moving forward, and would like you each to bring thoughts on what you think needs to be included on an Say calendar, and I will as well. And actually, if you want to email me, I will put a calendar draft calendar together that we can discuss next time.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: So yeah, why don't you do that? Why don't you all email me things that you think should be on a calendar, things that we don't routinely have and should

[14937-25] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: this whoops, this other question. So in addition to addressing academic learning loss, what other areas did you think students needed. And it was again, social emotional learning stuff and then technology to upgrade devices and software and things like that to access the learning.
TEXT> And then here's our current state with those three grants. So Esser one, the entire allocation has been spent and reimbursed and it is closed. SR two. We have an allocation. We were granted 2.879 million. We have budgeted 2.6 of that. Reimbursement not reimbursed. But  yeah, reimbursed is 400,000. The bulk of that is waiting. We spend it first. State reimburses us for that.  And and those have to wait until the end of this school year for much of that money to get reimbursed.  There's still  about 200,000 left to be budgeted. Much of that will go to summer programs and  vacation camps and things like that that have not yet occurred.  And then after three, we have  6 million, 6.4. Of that, 6 million has been budgeted. And you can see the things that it's been budgeted for there. We're working with Sullivan County to have a dental program for our students at hired academic coaches, put together advisory committees for curriculum. We really updated the science labs. We spent about $60,000 to buy all new science,  software and data collection equipment. We greatly increased the music department's  instrument budget. About $100,000 worth of instruments allows our students to rent those instruments, all the way up through,  grade 12.  We have social emotional screening tools that are being used in the elementary schools. Funding for emergency placements. We've got parent engagement programs planned, and this runs until 2020 for the SR three program.
NEXT> Mike Koski: So you can read the rest there and then. Go to a summary slide. And so we have our allocated money for two the budgeted and the budgeted amounts for

[14937-43] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: Do you want to like, sell compared to
TEXT> However however it's budgeted and then we can take a look at it and then we can kind of parse out and say, well, it looks like we've added $450,000 worth of, you know, positions, you know, you know, getting more folks in. And are we paying for that with Esser money or are we paying that, you know, or versus being budgeted? And we should know in particular, if the community is starting to rely on these resources. And is there a way that we can identify what programs are actually moving the needle, to meet the needs of the students? I know we had an issue last year where we had a great summer program that anecdotally people said was beneficial, but we were unable to get the data to support whether or not that summer program actually was impacting academic achievement. And as a district, we should be preparing for if we can identify that this summer program is really moving the needle, then we need to start thinking about budgeting for it with real dollars. So  that's one question I had. So blah blah blah. And definitely, you know, how are we evaluating the effectiveness of these interventions. Do we have any tools in place?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: To kind of again, tell us whether the interventions that we're putting in a place are actually meaningful? Because it would be very difficult for me to support maintaining a

[14937-59] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Mike Koski: with the money. Here's how we're going to do it. Here's how it's going to be a and then they approve or don't approve that activity. So sometimes they send back questions. So there is an evaluation piece with each of those. Whether you know.
TEXT> It usually like if they're not really meaningful evaluation tools that tell us whether I mean I think they're kind of like we you know, we write, it's worked or we get them the state of the or the feds what they want, but it doesn't really tell us anything meaningful. So are we able to come up with some evaluation tools that we meaningful specifically to our district versus kind of these global nebulous? It worked or it didn't work, because if something works, we should consider keeping it. If something doesn't, then we should absolutely not even entertain it. But if we're sending back to the state, well, it worked. Then there's going to be an argument to be made for keeping it, when in reality it really isn't serving our students and our money could be used better elsewhere.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Okay. Thank you.

[14937-103] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh, yeah.
TEXT> So having the right tools makes it easier to, to deliver the instruction. But I don't know if that is necessarily going to be measurable as improved student outcomes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: No, I mean, I know it's hard to measure. That's all I have on a certain.

[14937-111] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Right. That's that's one time money, right?
TEXT> That's the one time money. But I don't think those kids are going to need at one time.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Correct. It's annually moving forward, however long they're in, that the intention is always to bring them back. But so that's a concern. And you have to realize when we

[14937-119] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - presents the ESSER I/II/III grant up | 2023-03-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: I just have two. Two questions. I see three. There are two. Parent engagement. I wondered what that what that was.
TEXT> Well, we made some plans.  Obviously, part of what we need to do is engage our community more to and think that would have an impact on student learning. So we had plans for something called the Strengthening Families program, which is out of Iowa State. And then another program called face, which I think is family active  community engagement or something like that. We haven't been able to begin implementing either of those programs at this point. It just isn't something we've been able to get to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So what's what's been the problem with implementation.

[14937-133] Heather Whitney | School Board Vice Chair; reports out the ad hoc parliamentary-procedur | 2023-03-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: went to a conference, what he learned at the conference, and you can share the board stuff that he's hearing from other superintendents, and also will give an opportunity for questions that were asked at a previous board member a board meeting to be answered.
TEXT> Sometimes citizens asked questions, and it's not  reasonable to expect  that our  that everybody here is necessarily going to have the answers to those questions. But the public does deserve to have answers done in a public way. And so we've requested that in the subsequent meeting that the superintendent answer the questions that were asked by the public during the superintendent's report, we also kind of thought we could make the student representative report a little bit more targeted and perhaps give that poor representative some assignments for, for instance,  if we've done a schedule change at the high school, maybe the superintendent, the  representative can come up with a survey to find out how the kids are doing with it, how the new food service is going. So we can kind of give them assignments and make them a little bit more part of the governmental process. The other big thing that we came up with was that coming up with a calendar that's going to be pre-populated annually so that board members know what to expect month by month, and what they should be preparing for.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And also what, that's a year. Office is going to be should be preparing for. And one of the big things on this pre-populated calendar is going to be, presentations

[14986-93] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - presides over the election of SAU 6 officers,  | 2023-03-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the restoration of the Dow building. In addition to rebuilding financial integrity caused by a multitude of troublesome legacy issues we have now. Excuse me. We have strong employees and processes in place to ensure that finance, operations and HR run smoothly in the future.
TEXT> I realize there are still important projects to be completed, however, and accordingly, I can be available to the A oh six on a contract basis to assist my replacement. Best wishes for your continued efforts on behalf of the community, students and educators. And yours, Richard Seaman. What  has been taking a little bit of time  is to  we've been busy reaching out to consultants who can come on board and help with the transition. So we have a commitment from David Jack that  in who we will be here Monday to start transitioning with Richard.  And obviously in the entire team for, for the week. I have spoken to Michael Campo who is the. Director at our auditors, and he also can provide any  assistance with the audit report. David, Jack is a specialist who has worked in the region, most recently at Fall Mountain, helping them last year when they didn't have a BA. I was very aggressive in trying to get someone, as I know there are several, and we're going to post the position as soon as possible. There are several, business administrator openings in the region, as is just in the southwest. I know for right now. So we're going to we're going to aggressively go after that. And, David Jack has 35, 40 years experience, just a really respected BA. So, we were we were lucky to lock that down as quickly as possible.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And some connections to some of our staff including Mr.. Were excuse me Mr.. Kosky kosky to skis. All right so but so it's we're that that's that situation. So

[14986-98] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - presides over the election of SAU 6 officers,  | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: Verbiage.
TEXT> 17 girls in troop 3261  led by  troop leader who reached out to me.  Oh, about a month ago or so. And  the heroes that the girls wanted to honor this year were the the teachers in the region. And this troop has students from unity.  Leinster, Newport,  Claremont. And it's just a tremendous effort.  They they raised they sold 17 girls, sold 15,000 boxes of cookies for each thousand  student would get an iPad. They gave away ten iPads. What was really neat to hear about that, in the spirit of the Girl Scouts taking me back to my daughters in their days. But the is a lot of the students who were the aggressive sellers and did really well, also helped out their peers so they could get they donated their sales. So everyone worked as a team, so kids got as many iPods as possible. So those we have those  and we're going to be distributing those out there was fortunate enough. And you see the picture we had,  we went up in  to  bluff and met with the students and also at unity and at unity, they it was kind of cool. They actually had had the props that you see there. The girls hit to the classrooms and the teachers were still around and they gave them out right, right then and there.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it was just a really nice effort. So they are our, you know, the name of it was oh, I if you you don't you don't need it. I

[14986-116] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Mike Koski: that grant. We're really the only nearly full or complete district that's participating in that. And that grant is, teaching administrators and educators in how to how to improve the coaching cycle of the practice of, of teachers in the classroom and what they're doing.
TEXT> So administrators are in the midst right now of a seven week training process where they're learning how to,  lead their team, that they will designate of teachers. Each each participating school will have a team of teacher leaders. Those leaders will then participate in a two year training, where they will learn to become coaches of their peers in a non evaluative way. So they'll go in and they observe and they help and they help plan. And just exactly what an athletic or a musical coach or teacher would do. Except it's all geared towards the practice of teaching. How do you better engage? How do you better reach kids? How do you better manage the classroom, better plan and pace lessons and things like that? And so we're really excited about this opportunity.  And we think it's going to have a big impact on how our students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Learn.

[14986-155] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: And and how do you pass out the identified students. So I'm maybe I'm just being thick here. But if this is to include our identified students, if we have a higher concentration of students than another district, how does that.
TEXT> Than our numbers would be a little skewed. And I do want to say that just because they're identified doesn't mean they're automatically in red or yellow necessarily. I mean, we've if they're making progress and they may exit special education, they could be part of our green zone. So we don't want to confuse that. But as far as MTS, the multi-tiered system of supports, which is how we identify students for specific learning disability, we really should only be targeting that 20% group. So and that's based off the population of peers. So our students here in Claremont may look different than a neighboring district that has higher levels of achievement. So our norm for our bottom tier of needing support would be different than a school that has 80% on level. Does that make sense?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Some level, yeah.

[14986-158] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Stephanie: So it's for that targeted support system.
TEXT> So we're presuming that we have roughly 25% of our kids are identified or 20%.
NEXT> Stephanie: I don't know those numbers.

[14986-162] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: 324 last.
TEXT> Time 23% of our students are identified.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah, yeah. So roughly a quarter.

[14986-186] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: I'm taking.
TEXT> In the continuity. So to be able to have the same thing happening across the district in all first grade classrooms, all third grade classrooms.  Another thing that we can show you at a later time is we've been pulling research on how much time teachers spend looking for high quality instructional materials. And at the end of the day, you only have so much time. They have families of their own that they're trying to take care of. And at the end of the day, they may say, this is the best I have time to provide for my students. So it's really our responsibility to find them, those high quality materials. And we have teachers who have created things that are better than any publisher I've ever looked at. So we're also trying to find a way to be able to share those resources with the rest of the district and use what we have. Homemade PD is what I call it. Cool. Yeah.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. I want to agree with what was said about the coaching model. And I think that's a very powerful tool for teachers to be able to meet with

[14986-190] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Steven Horsky: Anything else?
TEXT> Goes. Mentioned a couple of things.  Stephanie mentioned that we're moving  the focus in reading instruction. Same. A similar thing is occurring in math where we're moving away from kind of mimicking calculations to problem solving approach for math. So how do I apply these problems. How do I apply these equations. How do I apply this understanding of patterns to a situation. We were probably I know I was I was taught teacher went up on the board and I mimicked it. And then that was math. And then I could repeat it later. You can go to Google and just type in words for any math problem and get an answer. Now we need our students to be able to problem solve with those math skills. And so those kind of shifts are  going to take a little bit of time, and it's going to be a little uneven progress. But  I think we're we're got ourselves pointed in the right direction.  And we're going to we're going to see Stephanie mentioned kind of slow  slow growth. But I expect to see that on a curve picking up in the near future.
NEXT> Mike Koski: One other thing I just want to mention Stephanie got a warded or got nominated to be a finalist by one of our principles as a Science of Reading Star

[14986-206] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: So can I just something so.
TEXT> It's important to know that we're looking at all of the grade levels in that data. Some grade levels are doing better than others that we've mentioned before, such as kindergarten who those children are receiving explicit onyx instruction, phonemic awareness. All of those things are taking place right now. They're making exceptional growth. So I mean, when you look at grades, for instance, you ever have you ever received a report card and you had a lot of hundreds, but you had a few really low grades, right? And it brings everything down.  That's more of our pocket of kiddos who are really struggling since Covid. They didn't have that instruction. They didn't have the language immersion. But our K-2 groups, one of our schools has 78% growth this year. And they're and they're all doing that well. So I mean, it's it's really good to see. So when we are able to present to you because this looks kind of grim, like when you look at it the way it is now.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I understand.

[14986-210] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 - surname never stated in the record | 2023-03-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: That would be my prediction to where it's grades 3 to 5 would be the most heavily impacted by Covid, and K through 2 or 1 would be the least impacted by Covid because they weren't.
TEXT> And those teachers at three through five, you know, they need to shout out also because they're having to implement things in their intervention that they've never taught from lower grades. So they're actually teaching, you know, multiple different grade levels of information to help catch those kids up. And they're seeing gains as well.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But I think it's important for people to to I think it's important to desegregate it as much as possible to, to really get to the root cause.

[14986-216] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Heather Whitney: or as an saw on how we're going to prevent those progressive losses when a kid moves forward and they haven't gotten it, and then they keep moving forward and they're just getting less and less and less because they have nothing to build on.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah. We we're having those discussions. There's I'm not aware of any, any  educational research that says the student benefits by being held back. However,  it almost always shows a negative educational results for the for the student, particularly the higher you get. So, you know, if someone  who repeats first grade much lower impact than someone who repeats seventh or eighth grade. And so yes, we're looking at those, but currently our policy says that's allowed. We have discussions with the parents. The parents and people are allowed to present to the board to make the case. And if it's in, everybody agrees it's in their best interest. Then retention can can occur.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So do they have mandatory summer school? Is there anything mandatory you can do to help these kids? So before they enter.

[14986-217] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (SAU 6 Board member) - chair recogni | 2023-03-30
PREV> Mike Koski: those, but currently our policy says that's allowed. We have discussions with the parents. The parents and people are allowed to present to the board to make the case. And if it's in, everybody agrees it's in their best interest. Then retention can can occur.
TEXT> So do they have mandatory summer school? Is there anything mandatory you can do to help these kids? So before they enter.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I mean that may become one intervention, but then we're still left with that decision at the end of summer school, right? I mean, so we can we can, certainly

[14986-222] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: show us making great gains. My question has to do with the state meeting of outcomes. We're well below the state expected level. Will needs assessments and instructional strategies help that as well. Is there a correlation between that? Are you seeing any of that?
TEXT> Yeah I believe there is a correlation. It would be a pretty bad state test if there were no correlation to these norm tests.  The other piece is that what I've learned is that there wasn't a lot of emphasis placed on preparing students for these state tests in the past couple of years. We did miss one year due to Covid,  but our students are not, for the most part, haven't been become very familiar with the format of the test or how the test operates and how they have to,  put effort into it and why it's important. So we're working on improving that. Teachers are integrating  practice questions into their  classroom subject matter so kids students can see this is what the test looks like. Here's how I can use some strategies.  Ela, specifically the middle school has has created a whole unit on test taking strategies not just for the state test, but for all test taking situations. And so we think that we're going to see some benefit this year from, from that practice.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And it's probably less teaching to the test than teaching the outcomes.

[14986-224] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the district-wide curriculu | 2023-03-30
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: And it's probably less teaching to the test than teaching the outcomes.
TEXT> Yeah, it is not.  I know there's you know, nobody wants to teach to the test. But kids are going to take tests for a long time. Might as well learn how to do that and be smart with it. Right? Sure. And  you know, you if anybody ever failed their driver's written test, you study it and you look and you learn a little bit more. And the next time you get better at it and you may or may not have more knowledge, but you certainly have more knowledge about how to take that test. And that becomes important. It's just another skill on how to read the room, how to read the situation. And  so we we have our teachers instructing our kids in that way.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: All right. I would like to move on to the website technology update.

[14986-240] Steven Horsky | SAU 6 Board Chair - elected at this meeting 6-5 over Marjorie Erickson | 2023-03-30
PREV> Jeff Small: I'd have to research that.
TEXT> The reason I'm asking is, is because it seems like a no brainer for this building is to have a technology integration program or something like that, and then we could literally farm it in our own house. We're yeah, we're paying a salary to do it, but it's going to be a live action all day while the kids are in class. Just just something thinking outside the box on because why not utilize the youth in our community, our our children to help us one grow and find them a career outside of it? Because you never know, you could end up with a turnkey student that could fill some roles, and it would only make sense to keep them in Claremont, not ship them out to Hanover, Lebanon, or out of the state. Just an idea.  I'm currently looking at the website. It's definitely different than the last time I did.  Maybe that's because I don't look at the website enough because of how frustrating it was. The only thing that sticks out to me is where the bubbles are for employment. Student registration. I'd like to see board policies go there as well, because that's one thing that parents do ask about is what's your policy for this?
NEXT> Steven Horsky: What's your policy for that? It'd make it easy. You'd have your say you Claremont unity. So on and so forth. Readily accessible. They don't even have to be big

[15003-36] Hannah Petrin | Student Representative, Stevens High School (ASR 'Hannah Patron') | 2023-04-05
PREV> Hannah Petrin: high school had SOS suicide presentations last week and advisories. The seniors are performing The Beverly Hillbillies on April 13th of 15. The show is at seven, doors open at 630 and is $5 to get in and all the profits for the senior class.
TEXT> Musical theater has their performances on the 25th and 26th of May, and com is May 6th at the high school, and the National Technical Honor Society is reaching out to tech students to invite them to join the National Technical Honor Society. These students must have at least a 3.0 GPA, no conduct violations, and a recommendation from a tech teacher as well as another teacher. They're planning their last culinary luncheon, and it will be held on April 14th from 1130 to 1230. The menu is smoked brisket and chicken. There will be a special guest chef teaching students how to smoke the meats tickets at $8 each and can be purchased at the administrative office. There are only 50 seats available, so make sure you get your tickets before they run out. The Technical Career Day is scheduled for 11 to 1. On May 11th, lunch will be supported by North Country Smokehouse and cooked by the culinary students. Employers interested in attending may contact the Tech Center admin  office to sign up.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. I heard a rumor that somebody might have gotten accepted to you and H. Is that you? Yeah. So. Okay, we'll move on to Superintendent Report.

[15003-43] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 — presides over the officer election, then calls | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: biggest point I want to make tonight, particularly with the work of the Vision and committee, is, I absolutely applaud the, the the efforts to add more Co grams into more utilize the amazing opportunities that we've had over the years here at the tech.
TEXT> And I want to put this forward and I can present this and we can work with the vision and committee as well. I think the easiest way to control that and the benefit for most of,  of, of our students, particularly the large amounts that don't go to college, and this is completely within the purview of the school board, is to say, hey, you know, we are down for this. Let's make it a requirement. Let's make that you for graduation. You have to have that. You have to have other graduation requirements, minimum state standards. But if if this is a community value and it absolutely is that we've heard loud and clear, let's, let's, let's make it that you have to do that. And they're variations of that. You could have people fulfill that requirement in one of the levels you could have applied to,  you know,  intro courses or something like that. But let's I, I  say we, we embrace it and even look to have as, as, as was presented before embedded credits and maybe even some other  we had a, I thought a pretty robust and interesting meeting today, looking at  other types of program building that we could if we added a part time teacher up here.  As we said before, maybe we embed credits, maybe we do other things. So maybe maybe we go that way on that and we'll talk about that also as another time. Right. And.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's, that's all I, that's all I have for mine. I also have another the curriculum committee is going to talk about, some of the instructional materials. And we, we

[15003-45] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: know that we have another meeting coming up, and we could probably gather questions and things like that and talk about it and maybe make a vote on that two weeks from now. Might, might, might be a better, better plan. Take it away, Steph.
TEXT> So this isn't just to our elementary schools all about selecting high quality materials, because we've been doing a piloting program this year to make sure that we have high quality materials in the hands of students. And, thank you. So two, few of our students are making, not adequate progress in their academic work. And so we know that. What are we going to do about it? We can admire the problem. I don't know where we heard that recently, but we can admire the problem. Or we can put, you know, feet to the ground and and get moving. And I think the number one thing that we need to do is get high quality materials for, for the teachers. And so we have fun that's been piloted. We also have Haggerty. They've already been using at K-5. So we looked at the comprehension piece of that. So Hegarty is your phonological awareness. Then you have foundations which is more phonics and phonemic awareness.  There's, there's a bit of that in both Hegarty and Foundations. And then you have wit and wisdom which is your comprehension in your writing strand.
NEXT> Stephanie: And so, we piloted two different programs this year. One was Kayla. That's a core knowledge language arts, and the other one was Witan wisdom. And so we, Yeah, we

[15003-51] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: I thank you, Stephanie. So could you in the context of of this define for us what high quality means.
TEXT> So you would have text complexity that is appropriate for each grade level. So when when students are interacting with text they would be  interacting with vocabulary. That's rich academic vocabulary but content vocabulary as well.  The latest research on the science of reading tells us that students need to be explicitly taught, you know, in the classroom, there's no more guessing or encouraging them to. Oh, you'll figure it out. The more you read the the the better you'll get. It's explicit instruction in the area of  phonological awareness that we refer to as PA phonemic awareness and phonics. They need that explicit instruction. But in addition to that, in the writing field, the materials that we have here, you're not separating writing into a separate category. So students would be interacting with materials and building that knowledge, and then also writing about those  reading exercises as they go through their instructions. So there's no more like, okay, now it's time to write. Okay. Now it's time for us to read. Okay. Now it's time for us to work on handwriting. It's not separated. It's all intertwined together in a rich literacy block.
NEXT> Stephanie: So the materials that we use to be able to catapult that learning matter, because that's the the base, that's like the foundation. And we have teachers who are going

[15003-56] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: programs from the slide that had the five, programs on the screen. I see the only wit and wisdom covers grades four and five, and I'm just wondering if that program is the complete, I guess, Ela curriculum for those grades and if that's sufficient.
TEXT> So we will have to build a bridge as to how I'm referring to it. For our students who haven't had all of these programs from kindergarten through to the fourth grade, we'll have to build a bridge of a different program that's supplemental. We can use some of our federal funds for that. Some of the things we're using right now are  95% group multi syllabic words. But it all has to do with the continuum of when you teach what. So our kindergartners coming in next year and many of our kindergartners this year have received the full scale instruction that they need. But if we look to next year, those students would receive everything they need to be successful in kindergarten. And then first grade teachers aren't having to pick that up and also teach what they needed in kindergarten and first grade. But  once you get to third, fourth, and fifth grade, those teachers are going to have to put in a little extra work the first few years because those kids haven't had all of that. Some of them have, some of them haven't we? We don't have a,  consistent program at this time. Teachers are just piece milling things together, using what they can and doing the best they can with what we've given them.
NEXT> Stephanie: So for each of these programs, they only go through to the skills that those students need at that grade level. And it's expected that by the time they get

[15003-70] Stephanie | Curriculum Director, SAU 6 — surname never stated in the record | 2023-04-05
PREV> Stephanie: fractions, multiplication, division, decimals, all kinds of things. You're going to have to teach all of that before you can expect them to know how to do order of operations. Right. So in the same way, literacy is just a lot more difficult to explain.
TEXT> So that's why I like to use that analogy. But if you if you think about them in the same way, we need to know when do we should be teaching what to our students. And we need to provide  certain materials to teachers to be able to do that. One of the educators that I work with, she actually turned me on to this really cool book called the ABCs and All Their Tricks. So when I was a teacher, I used to just tell kids, that's just the English, English language. That's how we spell that word. That's not true. I failed those kiddos, right? There's a reason why every word is spelled the way it is in this book tells you that. And so if we have those resources that myself and my advisory boards are able to go through and kind of pick out some starting points for teachers, they're going to take it and run with it. And so it's really nice to be able to look at all of those pieces.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Thank you.

[15003-87] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair — elected chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I agree.
TEXT> Great. I think we can also,  when we have our retreat and we talk about the strategic plan, there may be an opportunity to really kind of lay out a timeline and a stepwise fashion on how to proceed, to make sure that those concerns are addressed and that we can have documented follow ups and we can populate in that agenda. And and I think we can we can serve the public and the board well by doing that. Thank you. And  as long as it's reflected in the minutes that no one on the board objects to the recommendation  by Superintendent Tempesta to hold back on moving forward in the reconfiguration. I think we're good, unless anybody has any concerns about that and would like to  discuss moving forward otherwise. Yeah. So if the minutes reflect that, now we're going to move forward under discussion and action items. Stevens High School youth and government. Government is me.
NEXT> Unidentified: And Alex was able to come and join us after practice. This year we have seven students who are planning on going to the Youth in Government trip next week.

[15003-88] Unidentified | Stevens High School Youth & Government advisor (staff) | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: think we're good, unless anybody has any concerns about that and would like to discuss moving forward otherwise. Yeah. So if the minutes reflect that, now we're going to move forward under discussion and action items. Stevens High School youth and government. Government is me.
TEXT> And Alex was able to come and join us after practice.  This year we have  seven students who are  planning on going to the Youth in Government trip next week.  And  a lot of them have been brave and taken on parts that they don't usually do.  Aubrey Herzog tried out for speaker of the House, although she didn't get voted in. She is taking on the job of being a lobbyist, at which I'm sure she's going to be excellent.  We also had  Michelle,  who's going to be on  the governor's council, which Aubrey was on last year. Alex is a first year youth and government student who, bravely took on being a co-chair of a committee, and we've been training him up the last few weeks, and he's working hard on his parliamentary procedure. They have a lot of legislation.  We I took pride in the fact that we were the first to get all our paperwork in this year, and and  we had more legislation than a lot of the schools, even though we only have seven students in our delegation.  Alex created a bill, two bills. Actually, he's got one bill about LED lights underneath vehicles and another one on funeral pyres in New Hampshire that he wrote at my goading.
NEXT> Unidentified: We also have some legislation that is related. Another one on roads. Another student, wrote some legislation about amending a current bill that was passed last year in regards to

[15003-106] Sean LaPlante | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean the plant', 'Mr. | 2023-04-05
PREV> Sean LaPlante: it's 25 years of age with a valid license and car insurance. And they're approved by the parent. This is the only solution I can come up with. This is a temporary one. This isn't this doesn't have to be permanent. But since we. Can't.
TEXT> Give the obligation that we don't, we can't fulfill the obligation that we have for these kids to provide bussing for them, for these opportunities. So this is the only way we can do it. Yeah.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Cool. Thank you.

[15003-126] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: So you're suggesting to make sure that the signature is actually the parent signature?
TEXT> Have it notarized, because then at least that the person signed it is who they say they are,  instead of the kids just scribbling on it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So to summarize, though, if you vote affirmative on this motion, if the attorney says does not advise, then the waiver will not be approved.

[15003-139] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Vice Chair — elected vice chair at this meeting | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So that's a that's the that's the most common one that I've heard there.
TEXT> So if you've got if you've got the, the 15 person van for those kids whose parents can't take them and you've does the balance of your biggest team to those parents.
NEXT> Sean LaPlante: Probably not. Now with the 40, not with the 40 plus team, there's there's probably no way because most of those parents are going to be working. They're probably getting

[15003-151] Sean LaPlante | Athletic Director, Claremont Middle School (ASR 'Sean the plant', 'Mr. | 2023-04-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: On the way back on the way, there is a different animal.
TEXT> But we have had parents in the past, both me and Doug in the past, where say that a kid is going to an appointment, they cannot make the bus departure. Is it on to me? It's not on the kid. It has nothing to do with the kid. So I say, yes, you can drive your kid to the game and they can. He can play. Usually we don't allow if they don't make the bus, we don't have them play. And I've done that in the past. Usually it's because the kid had detention or did something that they shouldn't have, and they were late for the bus or whatever that is on the kid. Not not an appointment.  And I know Doug, Doug has done that in the past for high school as well. So if we can do that for that circumstance, we're not providing a bus. It's not on the kids, right?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Because we sorry. Because we knew this was a challenge last year that we didn't have a solution for. But the training program was a potential solution. I'm curious as

[15003-152] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member | 2023-04-05
PREV> Sean LaPlante: that is on the kid. Not not an appointment. And I know Doug, Doug has done that in the past for high school as well. So if we can do that for that circumstance, we're not providing a bus. It's not on the kids, right?
TEXT> Because we sorry. Because we knew this was a  challenge last year that we didn't have a solution for. But the training program was a potential solution. I'm curious as to why in the last 12 months, more people haven't been trained and and even though, like now it's an emergency, it wasn't an emergency six months ago, which would have given you a two month window to have already been trained. And so I, I agree that the kids need to get to their sports and we need to have a complete season. But if if this were approved, like I kind of want to change the motion altogether, if this were approved, I would want it to be temporary. Like if we decide to go against the attorneys recommendation allows a waiver that it could only be allowed for this season, and that coaches need to be trained to drive busses for next season. You have 12 months.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So are you asking to amend Steve's motion or should we vote? Or.

[15003-178] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School counselor; unified basketball coach; Ward 1 | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Of the office.
TEXT> Okay. But for but for parents who work, ask him to get a notary. If they work during typical working hours. That's a barrier right there. So I'm concerned about that for kids who's paying? A lot of our parents do work hours that don't want to be able to get a notary from a bank or from the district or anything. So that's a concern I have, because that's putting a barrier in the kids being able to pay for it, which I don't think any of us want to do in this room by just think that's an important thing to think about. And two is a coach. We need to your point about coaches having to be trained to drive busses. I don't know how I feel about that as a coach.  I don't I'm not a personal coach in high school coach. So our bussing isn't an issue.  But I have driving sometimes. Like, I have trouble driving myself down a road. Sometimes I wish to drive a bus full of kids down. Having to be a condition of me being able to coach in the district. I think that's a slippery slope to put on coaches. So those are just my two thoughts I wanted to put in front of you guys for things you didn't thought about. Sorry.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I have that. If a discussion is closed, we can have another comment for three minutes from a public number.

[15003-231] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School counselor; unified basketball coach; Ward 1 | 2023-04-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Second. All in favor? Aye. Sorry to the discussion. Okay.
TEXT> I'm Mimi, this is Matt.  We run the unified sports program at the high school. I coached unified basketball. He does unified track.  And so we have  this past year, had a great problem. I guess you could say we've had a lot of kids want to do unified sports, which is fantastic. Unified sports is a chance for students with disabilities to participate  in varsity sports with their peers. So in basketball,  it's partners and players. Players are the kids with disabilities. They score,  the partners there to help with the gameplay, keep the game moving, play defense, that type of thing.  And it's the best thing in the world.  One of my favorite thing about Working Stevens is coaching unified basketball.  The games are a blast. I encourage you guys come out to them next winter if you're around. And so we when we started doing the program, we really want to get the kids gear because other varsity sports have sweatshirts, sweatpants, all that type of stuff. And we were like, we want our kids to get that. So we started doing a fundraiser  of a concession stand and a football game once a year, and we got these kids super nice jackets, these sweatshirts, these t shirts  and sweatpants.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: And it's all free to the kids. No cost to them at all. And our kids love it. It's a source of pride for them. Just sports on it so

[15003-232] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School counselor; unified basketball coach; Ward 1 | 2023-04-05
PREV> Mimi Rhines: of stuff. And we were like, we want our kids to get that. So we started doing a fundraiser of a concession stand and a football game once a year, and we got these kids super nice jackets, these sweatshirts, these t shirts and sweatpants.
TEXT> And it's all free to the kids. No cost to them at all.  And our kids love it. It's a source of pride for them. Just sports on it so they can wear them for basketball and for track. And even other varsity kids are like, where'd you get the sweatshirt from? Like, they're like, jealous of our gear, which is fantastic. This year I had 26 kids on my basketball team, which is a lot of children for basketball just in general. I had eight new kids on that, so I had to buy all of them this year. Track. You have four new kids who are going to need the gear this spring. He has like sitting in total the fall bill for our for our gear was $980, which is way more than it's been the past. And I said, oh no, this is not going to go well.  And so I reached out to the Brand Foundation, Byrne Foundation. Sorry,  up in Hanover, because they've been generous with our district, as we all know in the past, I explained the program and the gear, that type of stuff, and they gave us $2,000, which is fantastic. We're going to send them a very nice thank you card,  but it'll be enough to sustain us giving the kids the gear for the next couple of years, along with the continued concession. And we'll do in the in the football season. So.
NEXT> Matt Bean: I just want to say a couple of words about unified because it's come, come a staple for for at the high school.

[15003-237] Matt Bean | Ward 1 resident; Stevens unified track and JV football coach | 2023-04-05
PREV> Mimi Rhines: All the same standards of the athletes.
TEXT> Correct. And,  I mean, they have to go to class like there's nothing. And it gives the children with disabilities a chance to get that sports experience that they otherwise probably wouldn't be able to have. So anything that we can give anyone is is amazing and goes towards our program, which is both of our teams are growing.  My team won a state championship last year, so I'm trying to defend a state title with my unified team this spring.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: We did not want to say basketball. Reminds me every single day of my life.

[15003-255] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: own community here in Claremont has expressed its desire for strong programing here. But in 2022, some concern had grown over the strength and perhaps the direction of our own tech center programing, and that concern was publicly addressed at the deliberative session that year.
TEXT> And in the debate over potential budget issues and budget cuts, the community and the administration and the board decided that an appropriate course of action was to convene a committee to study our tech center in its programs, with the goal being to determine how best to maximize the use of the facility for the greatest benefit to the students of Claremont and our sending schools and the greater community. So over the last several months, as Doctor Herzog has indicated,  our committee, which is primarily Sis and volunteers, has familiarized ourselves with the drivers that affect the facility here and its programing. And that's taken a while to help with that. Among other things, we have hosted guests like Doctor Jeff Beard, the administrator of the New Hampshire Bureau for Career Development. We have spoken with Newport City Director Eric Perry, our own high school guidance counselors, Mimi Rhines and Ray Curran. We have looked at variables and barriers to success between Newport and Claremont programs. We have even visited other CTE centers, including Littleton and Berlin. So it's been a process, but that work has culminated with an important milestone, which is what I'm going to share with you in just a moment.
NEXT> Andy: And that is the development of a comprehensive, focused work plan that lays out a process for assessing our programs and facility here, for examining the optimal number of and

[15003-257] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: for CTE courses? Or why is region ten agreements still relevant? Or why do CTE programs cost the way they do? Our plan addresses these and lots of other things, so I can run through it real quick if you want to bring it up.
TEXT> The work plan we've developed is is designed to answer three big questions. How many programs should now be run at our CTE center and what should they be? How can our facility best support current programing, as well as additional growth, and what facility changes would be required for that programing and potential growth? And that includes a closer look at region ten  dynamics. And the work plan will address this by reporting on six broad research areas. In section one of the plan, we examine why it is important for a community like Claremont. That's always important to to continue reiterating the plan calls for collecting relevant data like wage ranges and graduation rates. It'll explain how CTE benefits student achievement, workforce development, and other benefits of supporting CTE in our community in section two. And I'm just going to run over these briefly. We're not going to dive down into every detail at this plan, because we've got something else to cover as well as part of it. So in section two, the plan seeks to uncover data about our facilities, such as the progression of programing, facility utilization, types of programs relative to market needs and growth potential.
NEXT> Andy: It'll look at enrollment data, explore the region ten agreements more. Examine how to maximize things like running start, bridge to college, local opportunities through River Valley Community College, or

[15003-259] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: feasibility study that for that could drive future information for renovations. Section five examines funding mechanisms the committee felt in important to identify any possible funding source for programs, and ultimately for potential renovation needs that exist apart from the potential for new program spaces.
TEXT> And finally, in section six, our plan examines potential success metrics that could be updated if they exist already or implemented if they don't, that would help provide  data that shows how we're doing along the way. The results of a work plan like this will be an actionable document that can serve in a foundational capacity for the future of the program here, the facility here, and its value to our students and our community, which is, I think, what the purpose of the Vision Committee was for. Okay, the work is also crucial because it's going to ensure that our students have access to high quality CTE programs that align with current and future needs in our community and workforce, and that will benefit our students in several ways, including enhancing academic achievement, providing a pathway to advance education and successful careers. Be both locally and beyond. CTE here is not necessarily a stopping point. It's a beginning for other things. Right? So the timeline for this effort, we believe would be would start this spring and wrap up during the fall of 2023. This is a bit longer than we were hoping, but considering the importance of the facility, the programing here, the stakes involved, we feel this needs to be done right and we'd rather be thorough than like super fast and such.
NEXT> Andy: So this is the idea here and this this is a thorough report and the thoroughness hasn't really been undertaken, at least in recent memory, and requires a significant expertise

[15003-260] Andy | Vice chair, SRVRTC Visioning Committee; Ward 3 — surname not establish | 2023-04-05
PREV> Andy: the fall of 2023. This is a bit longer than we were hoping, but considering the importance of the facility, the programing here, the stakes involved, we feel this needs to be done right and we'd rather be thorough than like super fast and such.
TEXT> So this is the idea here and this this is a thorough report and the thoroughness hasn't really been undertaken, at least in recent memory, and requires a significant expertise and effort.  A detailed and well-regarded study was done in 2015 here, and we're happy to have the consultant group that  produced that study. It was well regarded within the community. They're available to us again as you're about to learn.  But this particular study is intended to be a pretty deep dive. So it's an undertaking beyond the resources of volunteers on the committee. And while we're going to be intimately involved in the process, we're not professionals in the area, and the community deserves a very thorough effort. So  I'm pleased tonight to recommend, on the behalf of our committee, the Southern Regional Education Board, as a partner and consultant, to help produce a timely, viable and comprehensive plan that can serve and pave the way toward meaningful improvement. And they are here tonight with their proposal to assist us with our plan. Now, this organization is familiar with our system, having done an extensive report for us here in 2015. That means there's institutional knowledge that they're bringing to our work. They operate in this capacity for schools and communities around the country, and most recently have been working up here in Vermont.
NEXT> Andy: They bring resources to our process that we simply can't find elsewhere. So at this time, I would like to introduce Ivey Coburn, division director of education and workforce with

[15003-268] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: also all feeder schools, and they come back together to basically compare notes and debrief and come up with, of course, our findings. So when we talk about findings, you'll see that bubble up into two components. One component would be strengths of existing programs.
TEXT> So things that we can build upon. And then he challenged and obstacles that we need to dress and make up for that strategic planning component. So with that we'd have that one team and then we'll visit those different campuses. So this would be a four day extensive visit. Now when you're thinking through the career pathway review, this is what I like to call the CPR basics. So I wanted to give you a  snapshot shot of everything that goes along with that visit. So first we'll have the desktop audit. And that's really where we have the updates to the 2015 report. We start digging into all of the data associated with enrollment. And then of course success patterns. So how are our students doing academically? How are they doing with earning credentials? How are they doing as we're transitioning to post-secondary in the workplace. So we have a lot of data that we start to engage with our shareholders around to really understand the  context of the offerings that are there. In that first desktop analysis piece, we also engage our shareholders with an orientation for the visit process itself. We do all of this virtually so that whenever we walk into the campus, our participants have a good background understanding of what that campus offers, what it provides as far as access to CTE.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: And so we go in there with that lens already in mind, as well as the protocols and procedures that we'll use as a part of the visit. As Andy

[15003-269] Ivey Coburn | Division Director of Education and Workforce, Southern Regional Educat | 2023-04-05
PREV> Ivey Coburn: our shareholders with an orientation for the visit process itself. We do all of this virtually so that whenever we walk into the campus, our participants have a good background understanding of what that campus offers, what it provides as far as access to CTE.
TEXT> And so we go in there with that lens already in mind, as well as the protocols and procedures that we'll use as a part of the visit. As Andy said, we do have focused surveys. Those will go out prior to the visit. And with that, we like to survey students, business and industry, parents, post-secondary counselors, school administrators and all of these focused  surveys are really directed at CTE offerings. Again, trying to dig in. How do students have an understanding that they are there? How do they gain access? How do we support students to navigate through the course sequences? And also how do we support positive placement and student outcomes? As you can see in the third column, that's all that we do while we're on campus. So you remember my proposal was four days in buildings, one day at each of the tech centers, and then a combination of the other campuses that we would visit on day three. So as we're in those buildings were interviewing students, we're interviewing counselors, administrators. We're also looking at artifacts. So what promotional tools or resources are used? What's the course syllabi. So we can look at rigor and then how  certifications and next steps are highlighted in those and any type of assessment piece. So again trying to look at rigor and alignment so we can make sure students have the best  possible program that that we can offer.
NEXT> Ivey Coburn: And then finally you'll see that red area down at the bottom. That is something that we are customizing uniquely for your tech center, so that we can make note

