[12115-400] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: really good job and its overall been kind of staying out of the schools for the most part compared to how it could be. Yeah, they're saying Omni Kron or whatever we want to call this variant this week and whatever one comes next week.
TEXT> They're saying this one's highly spreading, masks aren't going to help. So, I mean, we're masking kids right now to to something that may not be worthy. And it's it's not a debate about masks. It's a debate about how we're gonna continue to have these kids fall behind by missing school. That was a concern at the last presentation that I was noticing is how many additional people were on protocol while not having a test result understanding some of them were waiting for a test result. Some people refuse to get tested, and that's ten days off. So the it raises a lot of concerns to me at the educational level. And at some point, we're going to have to grab the bull by the horns, support and decide, educate these kids, aggressively, because they're falling behind every day, the ones that are missing. And sadly, I don't think it's because the parents aren't trying to do the right thing. And the community and the school, I think everybody's trying to do what they think is best. But, it's there's there's some kids getting some big deficits, my son being one of them. I mean, he's not performing anywhere near where he used to be. And he's two grade levels ahead of where he was when this all started. So I see some real concern on my end.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How much time is he? Just out of curiosity.

[12115-402] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: How much time is he? Just out of curiosity.
TEXT> My son. Yeah. He's only missed three days. He hasn't been sick. But you start boiling down the online learning piece and just start stacking it up. Considerable amounts of time missed for these students of interaction. I mean, we're social beings. We've missed social interaction. When the kids were sitting at home trying to teach themselves with the aids of of their computers while the parents were still trying to get to work to pay their mortgage. You know, in an ideal society, you know, mom was still home. Dad was still out making the bacon to to pay the bills. But that's not the world we live in.  So it's a lot harder now for families to to be on top of it. I know that I do the best I can, but there's other families that are working two, three jobs, both parents, just to make ends meet and pay their bills, and we want to refer to them. So I mean, I think we're really at a at a point, as Heather said, and as you've said, that we can't do anything tonight, which was not the intent. The intent was to start the discussion again so that we could get proper facts, continue the guidance, really get information on our exact numbers, essentially would be my goal of how it's been through the schools.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So we have a full picture of what we're truly dealing with, to, to make a and then make a vote of what we're going to do.

[12115-436] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: state of New Hampshire and the state of New Hampshire is who is saying that this is a cluster. And this is our recommendation. We are following the recommendation that is coming from the state of what that is saying, that this is a cluster.
TEXT> What what would be good to look at in terms of the averages of clusters and other schools which anyone can see on the debt, the same dashboard that I show up there, you can do cross-sections, you can compare communities side by side. You can look at school clusters. You can look at the overall size of outbreaks in clusters, all that whatever floats your boat. Right. But in this case, and in other cases, we don't look at, I guess what, what I, what I this is and I say this as a  parent and a coach and all of those roles that I played both in youth leagues and in high school,  oftentimes there's the sense and I alluded to this, I forget exactly what we you know, we were on their briefly,  on the phone, but a lot of times there's a sense that because, you know, the kids and the parents and stuff like that, there can be more to the story that we may know that we can't reveal and all types of things.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I don't know the particulars of this, but I do know the consistency by which we've done all of these throughout, from the point of being directed the schools, the

[12115-452] Mary Burke | Public commenter, Ward 2 (parent of a CMS basketball player) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, if the state classifies that as a cluster.
TEXT> I don't think the state would have. I think it was recorded as if  it says right on the toolkit that the nurses report what they think would be a cluster. And that should have never been reported as a cluster because those children were not. Some of these kids were not even there protected. So it wasn't gained from the same source. A cluster is a from the same source.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think the level of frustration that we're having here is that a bunch of people are working with discretion, and this includes the state. And so regardless of how

[12115-487] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: We're past that. All right. Sorry. Next time, Steve.
TEXT> One thing I would like is an update on the Puerto Rico trip, due to the fact of Covid being is rampant as it is.  I think we're kind of at a point where we need to start thinking about it. In fairness to the students and families as to how we're going to approach it. I have gotten,  word I don't know if it's 100% from another family that it may be required vaccination to go, which that now takes some other kids that were possibly going to go that are unvaccinated out. So I want to have a discussion on that and a full blown presentation because it was nonrefundable. I mean, it was 100% refundable based off Covid. And I want to make sure that if we make the changes, because basically, if we're in a trajectory down, if we're going to follow history and follow the science, it's going to be a problem come that break. And I was very cautious about it.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: February.

[12115-502] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (recognized 'Nick' at [580] and [623]) | 2022-01-05
PREV> Unidentified: And I don't know the whys and wherefores of the refunds, I just understood today that Friday is an important deadline.
TEXT> So I kind of off topic, but we were talking about before,  when we're going to have the Covid discussion, I'd like to see what the status of  the online learning is, because we keep hearing parents say that there's not being sufficient work submitted to their kids. I'd like to see kind of I'm not trying to quantify that, but to see where we're at. Yeah, because that's been a common thing that we've been hearing throughout this entire thing, which, you know, that's kind of important, especially if we're going to be home. I'd rather at least have some sort of work rather than, you know, one class out of the four they take.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Hearing that a very important day is coming on being able to make a decision on the Puerto Rico trip being Friday. This board needs confirmation ASAP to the chair,

[12115-503] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Nicholas Stone: common thing that we've been hearing throughout this entire thing, which, you know, that's kind of important, especially if we're going to be home. I'd rather at least have some sort of work rather than, you know, one class out of the four they take.
TEXT> Hearing that a very important day is coming on being able to make a decision on the Puerto Rico trip being Friday.  This board needs confirmation ASAP to the chair, because if we have to make a decision based on, we feel comfortable sending the students still,  at this point and based off the vaccination mandate causing five of our students to not be able to go. Now, that kind of bothers me a little bit. Because the mandates, you know, people can get the job if they want, but we're trying to mandate something.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is that Puerto Rico's ruled on or on it?

[12115-520] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-01-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: take any of these shots that you need deer, malaria, dengue fever, whatever, you're not going. And so that was the choice we made. You were either going to get the shots and go, or you weren't going to get the shots and couldn't go.
TEXT> I think there's assumed risk when these kids signed up for the parents that there were that we were in the world of unknowns and they said.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah, I'm, I'm in agreement with with.

[12151-36] Kip Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 2 (uncertain - self-ID heard only as 'Ryan, als | 2022-01-18
PREV> Kip Ryan: it's my opinion that we need to double down. We need to be all in on the programs. We need to grow the programs we need to not keep whittling away until there's nothing left. You know, the owner of my company is right here.
TEXT> You know, I'm the I'm the sales manager. He's, you know, I'm in charge of  growing the company or, you know,  a part of growing the company. He's not going to cut me to a half time position and then say, well, we're still we're still going to grow the company. Okay. So I just feel like, you know, Alex, that the director position as a key player in growing  this needs to be dedicating full time effort. You know, we do live in a pretty poor community. The last time I checked, the median household income was about. I'll wrap it up. Median household income was about $47,000. This building, if done right, if marketed right between the school guidance principals, local business people,  really could be a way for some of these kids who, like one of my boys aren't likely going, you know, going to be looking at college in a career path like that to really start breaking some of the generational poverty that, you know, we we experience here in town. So I just ask that you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you.

[12151-41] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified at [78]); elected to the boa | 2022-01-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: the president of Den Ron. Denman Plumbing and Heating and then Ron Hall Plumbing and Heating, with between 225 and 250 employees. I'm not going to do the mom thing, nothing like that. I just want to tell you that this is what started him.
TEXT> This is what got him going. And we and I see these classes disappearing. And what are we doing? I,  I know you guys have a hard job, I get it, but what are we doing here? We we have all these kids in this town who don't want to be stuck in fishing is. They're stuck in the book. They they got ideas and they want to work with their hands, and they want to excel that way. Why are we taking that away from them? We should be encouraging that more. Now, there was something that I did read and this is really interesting. I hope I don't run out of time. The center for Education Statistics showed that Korea and technical education encompasses nearly 94% of high school students and over 12 million post-secondary students. These numbers included high schools, career centers, community and technical colleges and foreign four universities, and more. And I also looked up. I found a couple more schools, Laconia Schools and Littleton Schools. They have an immense number of classes of things that you can take, and these people can excel  in that. So I'm hoping you consider I mean, yeah, I don't like my taxes to go up either. But you know what? If it's going to help the kids excel and bring more money into our community, then we, you know, this is the way it is, but we have to pay.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: But to lose, to lose all this and this beautiful building that we put money into. It's just I feel that it's just throwing it away, and, that's what I

[12151-42] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-identified at [78]); elected to the boa | 2022-01-18
PREV> Bonnie Miles: mean, yeah, I don't like my taxes to go up either. But you know what? If it's going to help the kids excel and bring more money into our community, then we, you know, this is the way it is, but we have to pay.
TEXT> But to lose, to lose all this and this beautiful building that we put money into.  It's just I feel that it's just throwing it away, and,  that's what I guess I'm just going to be out of time anyway, so. But that's that's my feel how important this is and how I've seen how important it is. And I see all these empty rooms. And then we're losing a business instructor. Why are we doing that? We should be having more kids learning all this stuff. Some of these kids don't even know about financing and money, and this is where they're going to get it, because these kids aren't going to go to the big four year colleges. So it's it's it's I hope you ponder over this and and  bring it back and not diminish it over the years. Encourage it over the years, you know, even if it's 1 or 2 classes a year. But so we get up to where the intention was in the first place. Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you Bob. Mr. Bean.

[12151-44] Matt Bean | Public commenter, Ward 1, paraprofessional (ASR 'Mr. Bean', 'Matt, bee | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you Bob. Mr. Bean.
TEXT> All right. Matt, been. Ward one. I would like to change the subject for a minute. It's come to my attention from the person directly impacted that one of the four positions in the district was the autism specialist.  I just want to express my concern because especially with the dropping numbers in people, kids going out of district in us saving money on that.  I just want to address my concern and what you would do,  to that,  I want to express my concern and what it would do to the to the to the students, because these kids who have autism, they need certain adaptations in certain and certain needs taking care of in order to get a solid education. The third thing is knowing this person personally. She is one of the hardest working people I've ever met. She was been in this district for 9 or 10 years. I think,  she's got a master's degree, she's working on her doctorate, and as a person that's going in, it has already have their associate's degree in social services and is going in that field and wants to work here in Claremont School District with these children to try to keep them from going out of district to save us money.
NEXT> Matt Bean: It doesn't make me feel so good that I have a future. So I just wanted to express my concern. I don't want to be a paraprofessional forever. That's what

[12151-47] Jason Benware | Public commenter, Ward 1; former Claremont School Board member (ASR 'J | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mr. Bender.
TEXT> Hello, everyone. Jason. Ben Ward one. Since he brought up special ed, I had a couple of questions.  So based on the presentation I got,  I read an article in the paper a couple of weeks ago about the budget and said we were saving 500 and some odd thousand dollars on special ed costs.  It wasn't terribly specific about that. And, you know, over the last couple of years, obviously, we set up these programs to try to keep kids in district and  to sort of serve our kids at home.  So are we saying that all the savings that came in special ed was from those programs? Because I'd like to know, first of all, is there a metric in place so that we actually know that these programs are working? Have we set anything up? Do we know that yet?  I've been anxiously awaiting this for a couple of years, because I was one of the people standing up there selling everybody that this is what we needed to do to save our district money. I also understand there's a lot of other dynamics that come into play. For instance, we could have had a family that just moved out of district,  that that could do it right there.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I understand, but I was hoping that maybe you could tell me if that is indeed the case. And, and the taxpayers in general would, would know, perhaps, that some

[12151-58] Mimi Ryan | Public commenter, Ward 1, Stevens High School counselor (ASR 'Mimi Rya | 2022-01-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: No, I just want to make sure everybody before we kind of try to answer all the questions, make sure everybody has their. Okay. So we know. So maybe we can answer multiple questions all at once. There's.
TEXT> Hi everyone. Mimi Ryan's Ward one. I want to kind of  up on the autism specialist position.  As a school counselor at the high school, I work with that person constantly with students on her caseload.  If students,  you know, have a stumbling block in class or something happens, you know, she's kind of the first go to for those students, you know, what strategy can we use with her and a student to kind of make them have a successful day. And she is a strong advocate for her students. She goes to bat for her students.  And I guess I'm going to follow up with Matt said, I'm concerned and confused because we're saving all this money is not sending out a district. And she's a key part of that because she works K through 12 if I'm if I'm not mistaken. Right. So she works K through 12. We're saving all this money. What part of this am I missing? So I guess that's my main concern. I don't know what the other three positions are in the district. I don't know if I'd like to share those or not.  But I think that's kind of my main concern. Looking at it, I don't really understand it. So I guess more clarification on that would be good as well if we could get that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Oh, I'm sorry, I'm the last.

[12151-62] Jeanette Rourke | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Jeanette. Rourke'; spelling uncertain) | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Okay. Jeanette.
TEXT> Hi. Jeanette. Rourke, Ward one.  I work very closely with the autism specialist. We do a lot of groups together.  What concerns me is she is the only autism specialist. And actually in the area. If you look, she's actually the only one that's actually around in the area meeting the needs of all these children. And,  the thing also worries me is she has covered a lot of different areas. She has helped children that aren't even on her caseload and supported them. That's saving money. She has helped K-2 when the teacher has been out. That's saving you money. And also she has worked tirelessly and all these areas and she continues to educate herself.  We want somebody like that in our district. Autism is not going away. Our percentages are going up. And if you look very closely, these kids who have autism need support and our groups have not gone down. In fact, we constantly ask ourselves, we can't have any more groups, but they would love us to. The teachers always ask for help, because kids with autism can be very tricky to work with. We love and support every single one of them, and I can tell you that her job is not just working with kids. She supports all the classroom teachers as well. So something to think about. Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[12151-72] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Whitney Skilling'); elected to the boar | 2022-01-18
PREV> Whitney Skillen: And I know that we need more tradespeople here, because I just moved here into a 70 year old house that needed roof repairs. The back porch was falling down, plumbing repairs, electric repairs, and every single tradesperson I called was over, overbooked and understaffed.
TEXT> Which means me personally, as a person who went to college and has a regular 9 to 5 computer job, I need my electricians to help me keep my lights on and my plumbers to keep my water running and my heat on, and the carpenters to help keep my porch from falling down, and all of these other tradespeople to help me keep my house standing, that I would be more than happy to pay fairly to do the job if they existed. I'm still on a waiting list to get the lights on back in my kitchen. Luckily there was an electrician on my street who got them on for me, but it's really hard to find people these days, and if we had more investment in these programs to train the kids who are really born to do this kind of stuff, it could really lead us in a long way. So I'm just wondering, with all these cuts we're making, all these numbers that are in these brackets. Was it ever considered to reallocate those funds into areas of need? Did you ask these individual schools what they need if their needs are being met, and if this money can be used in that way? Thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Thank you. Renee.

[12151-80] Derek Ferland | Public commenter, Ward 3 | 2022-01-18
PREV> Derek Ferland: Newport. I'm prepared to do all for Newport, which I think is a shame, and I think our community misses out because of the way the different programs are set up. So workforce and workforce development is the number one challenge for our local employers.
TEXT> And it's not just about the high school kids coming through this wonderful facility. I think it's underutilized. And I think we could be doing a lot more with the adult education as well. But it takes school board support to make that vision a reality.  And that starts with you, and I hope it starts with you reconsidering this budget to put the funding back so that we can move forward and take the next step of figuring out what that right size is. Every one of these wonderful careers through the trade programs, they're Amazon proof. They'll never be outsourced. You're not going to pick up a phone if you have a no heat call in the middle of January and get somebody from India that's going to help get your heat back on. So these careers are wonderful for our local employers, which in turn is great for our local community. They're lucrative and a great opportunity for a lot of the kids in this community.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[12151-83] Allen Damren | Public commenter, Ward 1 (ASR 'Alan. Damron'); former Assistant Mayor | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Derek. Wait a second. Matt.
TEXT> Thank you. Alan. Damron, Ward one.  I I'm going to largely, I think, echo what's been presented to you throughout the evening with a number of comments from various speakers. When I arrived back here in Claremont, my hometown, back in 1995, this center was pretty. It's a vibrant place and had been a vibrant place for a number  since its opening earlier in that in that decade. I don't know what has happened to the decline that's gone on through the years. That's declined now to four, maybe five. But I think that's just wrong. Cutting the director's time to 50%. I believe does does a very big disservice to this building  and to this effort. Our community and our students are largely supportive. I think of what we can do in vocational education and what can be done with adult education. During my time in the  South Central Office. I know I made a reference to the then adult Ed director when she was trying to figure out exactly what kind of course, to be offering. Why don't you see what the fire department maybe has in mind for its beginning? Firefighters who have to become  certified, they have to become certified  EMTs.
NEXT> Allen Damren: Why don't you see if they need some help? And lo and behold, they did. The ambulance service joined in with that effort. That was an extremely popular offering in

[12151-103] John Hall | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-identified at [212]) | 2022-01-18
PREV> John Hall: of those, you know, that are needed throughout the, you know, throughout the community in the country. It's really probably Claremont's most underutilized resource. And you'll have community gatherings where we talk about how we're going to revitalize the community and get everything on track.
TEXT> And there's almost always a discussion about how we need more people in the trades, in our factories and our businesses, and how are we going to attract more people. Most of those people are here. They're students in our school system, and this is the facility that gets them to that step, that gets them to those businesses that need their services, and to cut a direct to half time to me, sends the wrong message. I don't understand that decision. It doesn't make sense to me. I don't think it makes sense to half the people in the room tonight. As far as the course offerings within the school system, you know, I don't I don't know why we don't have some of those courses still offered here. You know why we went from 11 down to four? But are we are we at all asking the kids at different stages in their career? What are they interested in becoming when they grow up? Because at some point they're going to get to the high school. And are we offering things here at the tech that fit their aspirations? Are we talking to our business leaders, or are we talking to the community to find out what their needs are  and how we can maybe tailor some services through our system here?
NEXT> John Hall: Because, yeah, the community funds it and I pay taxes here just like everybody else. But I would like to know that my taxes help provide an education that can

[12151-121] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (a commenter cites 'what Heather said' a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: over here. So there were never that many. We started with seven and have some disappeared? Yes they have, and for various reasons, some dating back to when Mr. Damron was an administrator in the district. So, Heather, did you want to make some comments?
TEXT> Sure. I'm going to put my head on the chopping block here, I suppose. Or,  offer some clarification or vision. I think that the board has, I speak in part for myself, and I think a lot of board would concur. I don't know one member on this board who doesn't support the tech program, who doesn't support the trades, that does not want a robust offering for our students in this community or recognize it as more than a viable  option to make not only a living wage, but a wage that supports a family. My plumber is a is a graduate from this technical program, and I'm not giving anybody his number. He is my plumber. I'm still waiting for him to go. Jake Lapointe and he actually  represented us regionally in a skills assessment. So I am a huge advocate of of the trades. I do want to offer that perhaps there's been some misperception that the board is anti technical education.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And the article that was kind of sparked I think a lot of this in November of last year. Compared in contrast with what I think actually is occurring within

[12151-129] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (a commenter cites 'what Heather said' a | 2022-01-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: we did hear that we were going to have to do some expansion of the tech because our classes were busting at the seams, and that there was an opportunity for us to get state money, which I think one of our speakers actually mentioned.
TEXT> And why weren't we doing that? We didn't get a presentation on that, and it was actually suggested in that December 2019 meeting that we might want to even consider a state funded technical center being built on the property at Riverview Community College because of the possibilities of, you know, bringing students from one building to the next, and that, and the relationships that could be developed there. And so when, when I think the board is thinking about how we can provide tech opportunities to the students, it's not whether we need it, it's how we're going to provide it. And I think this was also mentioned by one of our speakers, is why are we not maximizing what we have in this community? We have up on the Hill lesson less than three miles away, that technical college is a gold mine of opportunity for our students that have not been, that has not been tapped into. And,  I've talked to Mr. Tempesta about this, and I think many of the board members as well, is why we're not maximizing the Running Start program and the Bridge to College program that's offered at the technical at the technical College. Now, when when I'm supporting that program, it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm supporting that kids continue to 2 to 4 year college, you know,  opportunities college,  traps.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: What I've read leads me to believe that, that in reality, the skill level positions are the positions that are most needed. And that means that you have to have

[12180-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: I mean that's before.
TEXT> Yeah I think that that's what I would suggest. So basically I, I have the presentation with other people's slides and it's too as part of my report. All right. So the, the the first  part of it, if you see the slides, the overall view of it is. So I'm going to go up to you for a second. So we're going right to discussion items. Or is this are are they one in the same. We're going right to the discussion item. So then they I have the items on this in order so that we don't go through the thing and then revisit it. Okay. We don't have a student report anyway so we can go right to the discussion action items then. Okay. Yep. All right. So the first the first one I would ask Mr..  Mr.. Mr.. Nestor and  he's not here. He's not here. Okay. All right. All right. Well, I can skip that as we wait for him and just go to the next one. So,  but sorry about that. So the first item that I had. Okay, we're focusing on on student outcomes. My eyes are terrible. Pardon me.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the the first I just wanted to focus back to the strategic plan that we talked about in these slides are from November and also from the summer when

[12180-15] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: right. All right. Well, I can skip that as we wait for him and just go to the next one. So, but sorry about that. So the first item that I had. Okay, we're focusing on on student outcomes. My eyes are terrible. Pardon me.
TEXT> So the  the first I just wanted to  focus back to the strategic  plan that we talked about in  these slides are from November and also from the summer when we did forums talking about the schedule changes in the expectations and things like that.  The major strategic plan focus items for the next five years,  two of the biggest ones are time on learning and teaching and learning to improve  student achievement within the district. And three of those items are  involved, and I know that I also put out.  You may have seen it's also posted on the, on the website, kind of a,  a follow up from our last meeting about  our plan with the tech center. And these are the points that I'll continue to to follow up with those. All right. So our our role was to have more hours overall in all courses, but also particularly,  with a schedule  melding at the  middle school and high school  in the tech center  to increase the access to all courses for students and have more time. And I'll talk about that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Excuse me. So one of some of the areas and I tried to clarify this and have more input because people have asked questions about about our tech center, about

[12180-19] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: committee. You have a lot of things gained when you share staff. So, for example, what we looked at the past couple of years, if you had an algebra one, which is a really a gateway course in high school in math and Steam instruction.
TEXT> We may be able to have the the in the perfect world, you have algebra one in the eighth grade. That's the same as in  high school. You might be able to share the same teachers and staff, and there's a lot of, there's a lot of  strengthening of all programs that we can get that way, as  we will have the common schools and the programs, particularly if we look at new programs to put in when we peel back and look more closely at the region ten agreement, there may be other ways  to,  to focus on one thing that I don't think we've ever been satisfied. Most of our students who go to Newport, I think our most enroll are I know our most enrolled program is  the Health Science Technology program, and it would be great to offer a type of health or science or technology or a subset of that here as well. So all right, next slide that I have is  other things that we need to do to  more market.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is these are the same slides as November. We talked. We have students who have done very well. Many of our students proximately 1,520% of our students who

[12180-20] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Science Technology program, and it would be great to offer a type of health or science or technology or a subset of that here as well. So all right, next slide that I have is other things that we need to do to more market.
TEXT> And this is these are the same slides as November. We talked. We have students  who have done very well. Many of our students proximately  1,520% of our students who graduate from Stevens graduate with some type of college credit from the community college here we had a student. You can see her  transcript in the upper right. And I'm going to try to have her back and present and also work with students as they're enrolling. She  offered to do that. And she, she graduated with, I believe, almost a full  associate's degree. But she started in she was I think it was about five years ago. There was an eighth grade track all the all the way through,  with advanced math. And students  were on the college campus. And we've been talking to the community college to expand that, to work hand in hand with some of the  other Steam initiatives and also some of the,  courses here at the at the tech.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The next slide that I have is the we talked about the administrative, overhead as well in all the class. So, the reductions that we had here, I also put

[12180-23] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: meeting that there's a lot of, a lot of opportunity there as well. So this is something to I wanted to put this slide in there that not many people know about. And again, it is on us to put the word out there more.
TEXT> But when you look at the Advanced Placement  scores and things like that, where you're those who don't know,  Advanced Placement scores are graded on a one through five scale with three, three, 4 or 5, known as a qualifying score, where you get college credit nearly  everywhere in the country. You know, the same as Boston University as a,   a state school or or the like. What's interesting with our students that people  we don't do a good enough job putting it out there is those are the 2020 scores where we had 11 students, 26 took the test and we had 11 qualifying scores, but we had 125 students get actual college credit,  from running start in  composition, psych stats and other courses that we've had. We also have linkages  with the  tech center classes as well, Newport in the like, and we have had a great history of that where if basically if you take those elective classes, you get your your feet wet, particularly in the trades and other types of things,  you can you can be on your way to that health  science certificate and many other opportunities that we have. And again, that's something that we want to do a better job promoting. But  but it's out there. So.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And this is the schedule. And I'll just look at the three schedules just to get an idea of what we're talking about right now. You see the what's known

[12180-61] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: place the summer school or not. Summer school. The summer camps. Yeah. Which is a nice kind of feeder, but I think getting every eighth grader through this, whether it's one of their electives and they bounce, you know, through each program. But I just.
TEXT> One where we are with  summer planning in general and kind of the the Steam professional learning communities and other types of  programs and things that were going to be available for, we're hoping to do with the with the elementary summer school camp and also with the, you know, the middle and high offerings is to try to focus on. We have the, you know, the energy with the beautiful new steam lab over here that the students that we want to try to make that,  focus that way thematically.  And we, we, we feel  in fairly confident that we'll have another successful, summer experience all the way through, funded by the cares. You know, that's a great community value, but the kids really enjoy it. And that's that's what we'd like to do, try to have the middle school involved more with that. Extend that. And, yeah, I don't I don't want to get ahead in. But in terms of what we would do with this, with the committee all the way through, we have to cost and have ready for the what that adoption would look like the following year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We could get components of it. I do think that there's, and we'll see how that goes. I don't want to get ahead of myself with that. But we have

[12180-66] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: if there's any openings you can put your kids into. But some of the courses, particularly the introductory courses, there are some that are absolutely you need the the low numbers, the machinery is dangerous. Scott Scott bulbs classes. It is a machine like atmosphere.
TEXT> Shop kids ramp up to that that safety level.  Some of the other ones, we might have a little bit more latitude. This is something we have to discuss with them about,  you know, who's who's,  we want to, I guess if we want to have feeder classes and we want to be able to max out what we have to offer here and get our kids through it so that they're staying here. A lot of the most of the Newport kids stay there because they're they're used to it earlier is my anecdotal  things that I'm, I'm hearing for folks. And I also know that,  it's only 15 or 20 minutes till you're on a bus every day doing it, hearing it from, from from some of our kids and other kids. But I don't know anything that gets them to, to to that we get more kids in. And I don't want to act like we don't have our students here. We do. But I think we could would ramp it up with a feeder.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I just want to clarify and follow up what what Heather just said. So it isn't the region ten that prevents us from having competing programing. It's the state. True.

[12180-72] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: forget is it was based more on enrollment numbers than budgetary cuts. And a lot of people want to think of the the school board trying to be the hack and slash and the tech center programs are what's been taken. That's not the case.
TEXT> When our scheduling doesn't allow  for it to be,  utilized by the surrounding communities in the region agreement that we're in, it makes it hard,  for a lack of better term, we've pretty much kind of had a prima donna atmosphere  when it comes to establishing working relationships with other districts to utilize this text center.  24 years ago, I attended this tech center as a Newport student. We were traveling over with sunup carries our students, and it's once again goes back to the reinventing the educational wheel,  with failed policies, you know, block scheduling changes and how those blocks align. Because I was a block scheduling student.  The in the competency based grading systems are just some examples of things where we've tried to reinvent the wheel that have kind of hindered things to grow,  in that we've lost revenues from the tuition students coming over here to take our programs. And there's been discussion of the going alone mentality. And if we choose to go there,  we do need to address the needs of our community directly, builds the appropriate partnerships with the community, and budget accordingly to fill that desire. There's one key thing. There's been mentions of this person offered this. This person offered that. Well, one thing they forget is, is that in order to be active in our youth and employed by the district, they have to pass background checks.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: And that's not always easy to do in the trades. I've come from the trades there. It's just not always an easy thing. So that kind of leads to the

[12180-73] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: that desire. There's one key thing. There's been mentions of this person offered this. This person offered that. Well, one thing they forget is, is that in order to be active in our youth and employed by the district, they have to pass background checks.
TEXT> And that's not always easy to do in the trades. I've come from the trades there. It's just not always an easy thing. So that kind of leads to the question,  has been in the region, can agreement hindered us or helped us? And  that's you know, I don't know. Has that been a  failing source for this tech center to be successful? It's hard to justify, as a board member, a program that has half as many courses as Newport at a full time position,  when they have their full time director. It's tough to to justify that to taxpayers. It's tough tough to to mentally justify it.  If if you've got half of the, the workflow compared to another center. So I understand where that budgeting proposal came from and I do  perspective, obviously, you know, we've seen the River Valley course offerings that may overlap with some of what we've offered here.  And there's an advantages to that partnership, such as being able to get apprenticeship instructional hours towards a trades license and or college credits. It seems like a no brainer to me that we utilize that to the best of our ability for our students.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: That's just some thoughts I've had on the sugar River tech piece. I don't know exactly where the breakdown was, but when I was here 24 years ago, this place

[12180-88] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have a section one and a section two in a block schedule of our criminal Akram, people who, who, who go all the way through the feeders and everything in our and end up in, in the, the plumbing or in the machine tool classes.
TEXT> We can only net six of our kids right now per a strict interpretation of the region. Ten I don't know when the last time as we had a full six all the way through. I don't know that I haven't, you know, gone right down to, to when that was that, that that doesn't concern me as much. But I do wonder if, if, if we hit on all cylinders, if we have a feeder, if we have the kids fire up making stuff over there wanting to come in here. A perfect scenario would be if we have more demand and we have to revisit that. And just like we had a swelling of the culinary program when when the  baking classes and other things,  left, left Stevens High School, we had  we had to expand and even have a  chef there handle some of the flow in the in all the students that went in there. Hopefully that that's what we're going to be seeing in the next couple of years. So that's where we want to go. Thank you. Positive vibes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I don't want to transition to well, back to pre-K or preschool without leaving a lot of citizens here. So I want to give people an opportunity to speak, if

[12180-90] Josh | Public commenter, Ward 3 (first name only on the record; ASR 'Joshua.  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: I don't want to transition to well, back to pre-K or preschool without leaving a lot of citizens here. So I want to give people an opportunity to speak, if they like, to your name and board, please. Hi, Joshua. Race one three.
TEXT> Good evening, and thank you for that presentation. And thank you for the follow up questions about the guidance counselor and about the nurse.  So in that slide, though, we got sort of an operational and financial explanation for what was going on. But I loved your first slide. It said student outcomes, but I didn't hear much about the students and student outcomes. And I totally agree that that is exactly what we should be discussing. And sure, so glad that everyone's here to to because they're concerned about student outcomes too. And students at home. I wish you were here so you could tell us what's going on in your experience in the schools and what your outcomes actually are. So I'd like to invite all of the students to come to the next school board meeting on the ninth to tell us,  but for now, I'd really like to know what are the improved student outcomes that students should expect by eliminating a nurse position. Because as you mentioned, there are some dangerous equipment at this building, and so having a full time nurse seems to make sense to me.  Likewise, how does eliminating the guidance counselor improve student outcomes? You said that there was actually very successful in that. We're going to see movement into the technical school because of the guidance counselor, and that would be very useful to coordinate with sugar River.
NEXT> Josh: So can you tell me sort of what the student outcomes you expect to see? Sure. That would benefit by eliminating the nurse and the guidance counselor.

[12180-91] Josh | Public commenter, Ward 3 (first name only on the record; ASR 'Joshua.  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Josh: Likewise, how does eliminating the guidance counselor improve student outcomes? You said that there was actually very successful in that. We're going to see movement into the technical school because of the guidance counselor, and that would be very useful to coordinate with sugar River.
TEXT> So can you tell me sort of what the student outcomes you expect to see? Sure. That would benefit by eliminating the nurse and the guidance counselor.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So thank you. Yeah. Okay. So in terms of the the achievement outcomes, I think that's more that what we're what we were talking about through the through the coursework

[12180-95] Nicholas Stone | Claremont School Board member (addressed 'Nick' at [521]; [184]-[185]  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Josh: budget. And currently the proposed budget is comes in less than what we're spending now. So it seems like there would be room and it would be beneficial to have those positions. So I'm not sure still how eliminating it helps in the long term.
TEXT> I can speak on the student outcome  I graduated in 2018 from. I took both the cutting room and to. I think a big thing here is that I don't think we're discrediting the high school guidance counselors because they're they're phenomenal.  What? I wanted to start taking a tech course. They were more than supportive, but I think it's kind of long lines of, like you said, was that it's more needs to come from the top level, because I think the tech nowadays is kind of thought of, you know, if you don't learn well in the classroom and hands on stuff. But I think if we look at it at a different approach with kind of focused on having it open to all students for whether it be accounting, whether it be plumbing, I think the guide that we have, I believe two thirds of the way there, when I was there, were still there. They're more than supportive with taking tech classes and putting those in your schedule, even with the four blocks.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay. I think this might be helpful to. So we were given a copy of the, Perkins grant application. So this application outlines how the director is planning to spend

[12180-96] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Nicholas Stone: whether it be plumbing, I think the guide that we have, I believe two thirds of the way there, when I was there, were still there. They're more than supportive with taking tech classes and putting those in your schedule, even with the four blocks.
TEXT> Okay. I think this might be helpful to. So we were given  a copy of the, Perkins grant application. So  this application outlines how the director is planning to spend the Perkins money to meet and address some of those needs and concerns that you are pointing to. And I can I don't know how much time we want to dedicate to this, but I can highlight some of the key areas that were indicated in the Perkins Grant. So,  you're worried about or wondering about, provide career exploration and career development coursework, activities or services? This in part is it's labeled the school counseling office. So it says here we will coordinate with the high school school counseling office to broaden our career explorations development programs. We will contract with a consultant to help develop and implement a program that meets the needs of our students in the demands of the using the Perkins money to do that. So we're going to hire a consultant to do that. So I think that's. Does that help at all with, with that piece is that we have a well, there's.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: Something.

[12180-114] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Nicholas Stone: It or.
TEXT> I'll take a stab at this one.  The reason being is, is that we're looking at an annual budget,  currently based off the information waiting on the consultants to, to respond and kind of help guide that the immediate gratification isn't going to happen. We have everybody thinking that it's going to be instant gratification. What we're trying to do is take a building that's basically been cut in half from when I was here and trying to grow it. Well, we can throw as much money at that problem as you want, but if we don't do it wisely to build the program the correct way, get the right programs in here and use the grant funding and state funding that's available to the district. We're doing a disservice to our students. So it's a one year budget. And currently the way it's set up and based off of what's taking the time, we don't have the ability to utilize a full time position. When you have Newport with eight courses in US with four.
NEXT> Unidentified: All right. Could you could you explain you said something about background checks for tech students so I, we could barely hear you back there.

[12180-139] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Excuse me, I'm just.
TEXT> Up my glasses.  The we the recommendation is, is, is that we think we could get by with the proposed reduction,  retain the typical peer model reduced to three teachers and focus on the restructuring plan towards  for typical models and universal pre-K for all students. There's too much risk programmatically and financially to revert back to a  substantially separate model. That was that's kind of the recommendation from the admin team and and  I believe from the board. But I also think that we are going to hear about the history of, of the the timeline of the position.  Some of the obstacles with the Department of Education and, and oversight, kind of the evolving of how this was housed previously and Disney  elementary schools obsessively Stanford separate and  in the like. So the next slide that you see. Mr. Nester, if you don't know if you can see that.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah, I. Have it in front of me. Oh, great. Great. Yeah.

[12180-150] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: That was right around the same time the early childhood program was defunct, and moved out of the tech center. It was a perfect spot because it was set up for little kids, you know, then 17 through 19, was really the big implementation year.
TEXT> Pre-K got very big very quickly.  There were three teachers, three classrooms. There was a pre-K director, Diane Edwards. At the time. There was a pre  there was a special ed coordinator for pre-K, a full time admin assistant, and then ancillary services related service folks, speech, OT and then and then paras, depending on the needs of the kids. Those are always fluid and kind of a  moving target. Then we get to 1920 administration at the time. Look at this in coordination with the school board. And we we we took we made two big cuts from pre-K at that time. We removed the director position,  and we removed the full time administrative assistant from pre-K. The special ed coordinator became the pre-K coordinator, and she  is still the pre-K coordinator paid. And she's here tonight and can give more detail. If there's  granular questions,  then we last year, 2021, we we had three special educators at bluff. At the time, population was dropping. Their population at the pre-K level was growing. So we reallocated a special ed position or a teaching position from bluff to pre-K. So there was no budget. Plus there.
NEXT> Ben Nester: It was just a reallocation of those funds. It just changed the location code in the budget. And then that brings us to 2021, current year. We currently have four

[12180-153] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Paige: This is the next one. There we go.
TEXT> And then this is just the document that was that was put together, just a very basic document that was put together in 2014 that outlined the improvement plan and a general scope and sequence and timeline for implementation. Thank you. And then so ultimately, this is our recommendation. This is administration's recommendation. We,  we we propose to continue with the pre-K structure as is, but revert back to the 1819 model, which removes one teacher and one classroom. Basically, we're trying to right size based on our current numbers. We we're seeing a big uptick in numbers. Pre-COVID, Covid hit numbers went down last year. Our numbers were very low and they generally are remaining low, though we are seeing an increase. So do we do think that we can continue to meet kids needs, with with this current current model that you see there? You know, two other bullet points that that lead us to make this recommendation in terms of let's leaving it, leave it as an early childhood model, which is 50 neurotypical developing students and not 50 but half neurotypical developing students and have special education students.
NEXT> Ben Nester: One you know, if history is any indication, we don't want to invite New Hampshire oversight again or risk another audit that would really sort of push us back to

[12180-164] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2022-02-02
PREV> Ben Nester: It's two sessions.
TEXT> So all of these kids aren't in there at the same time. There's two sessions. So there it's the numbers divided by two.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yes. Yeah.

[12180-183] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Paige: Yeah.
TEXT> I mean, one of the things that we were planning for, I want to say maybe end of 1920, we were talking we were talking about trying to create full day programing for our four year olds, because the feedback that we get constantly from, you know, kindergarten in particular in the elementary schools is if these kids poop out by noon, you know, the kindergartners. And so if there's a way to get them in there and have them do a full day. So we we would with that idea a little bit. And then again, not to blame everything on Covid, but it kind of threw a monkey wrench in those plans. But you know, that's something we want to revisit, particularly as we look toward a potential elementary school restructure, am I right?
NEXT> Paige: Yes. Well, yes.

[12180-187] Paige | Pre-K Coordinator, Claremont School District (first name only on the r | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So do we push? Do we have do we have students that we're providing services to in other facilities other than this facility?
TEXT> Yes we do. We have an MOU with Head Start. So,  head start and it all depends on the child. We look at the child and we look at their developmental needs. And sometimes we'll push in there and sometimes they'll go there and to us. So they'll do a half day with them. They'll do a half day with us. Pre-COVID I did have students in multiple facilities. If if they were a working family, we could go if they were at childcare all day and they didn't want to try to figure out how to make programing work here or pleasant preschool. We don't have a ton of options in Claremont.  There's also one space also, so I don't want to leave anybody out. If I do that, please forgive me.  But that was pre-COVID. Covid changed everything, so  centers no longer allowed individuals into their centers. And for us for a while also, we didn't allow visitors into our programing, so that then skewed things. So then they had to come to us. So they were either receiving drop in services, which we also do that. So we  provide services to kids just to drop in, and then we provide services out in the public and then we provide services here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is that the related services people that do that are those your your people?

[12180-196] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: I know I get that, I get that, but just want to.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean, technically I suppose you're right. I mean if you the way it just works in the real world, right, is like if a kid needs a little bit of speech therapy, we don't go through the rigamarole typically of enrolling them in our pre-K and serving them. You know, day after day we push and give them what they need, you know, by law. But if a kid has like a, you know, a global developmental delay or is in a wheelchair, that's when we would service them in a in a more comprehensive environment.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That's the best, best practice is some sort of.

[12180-200] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah, pre-K program, right, where kids come to you and get more than just the yeah.
TEXT> We're a kid with, you know, significant emotional behavior challenges. You know, those are the kids that we would serve, you know, here on site.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I believe that there was, a general misconception recently out there in the, the social media world that we're cutting a program. Really, we're right sizing it.

[12180-203] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: And.
TEXT> As Mike just alluded to, we're only required by law to service the, the, the children with special needs. And as a district, we know better. We had the help of the DOH,  to say, you know what, a 5050 model makes sense. And the gains have been terrific. So I just I want to I guess I want to clarify the misinformation that gets misconstrued once again that we're out here trying to to slash things. We're trying to do the right things with the proper levels of staff required to give the best possible outcome. And sometimes we have to make decisions, or decisions are being made by admin to to best utilize what we have. I don't think anybody's intent here on this board or in the admin team is to to have negative effect. I think we're all striving to follow our strategic plan and figure out the correct path forward for this district. Within those confines of what we know we need to do.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: To kind of piggyback on what Steve is saying. And I think this is I'm really glad there's a lot of people here tonight, because in particular, I think Whitney

[12180-204] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: on this board or in the admin team is to to have negative effect. I think we're all striving to follow our strategic plan and figure out the correct path forward for this district. Within those confines of what we know we need to do.
TEXT> To kind of piggyback on what Steve is saying. And I think this is I'm really glad there's a lot of people here tonight, because in particular, I think Whitney mentioned at the last meeting, like, why aren't we looking to reallocate these dollars that we are saving? And so my my answer to that is pretty complex. And I which are what Richard Go Richards he could help us throw numbers around. So, when you when you are on the school board, you suddenly learn all how we get our money and how we end up funding the education that we provide, we provide to the students of this district and unfortunately, in particular in the state of New Hampshire, all of our funding for our  for our schools is generated by property tax, local and statewide. Every time we increase our tax rate here, we we impact the most vulnerable people in our community because the property tax is not a progressive tax. So the person that gets hurt the most with that, with increase in local property tax, is a 78 year old widow on a fixed income who is barely paying for her medications already.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's one piece. The second piece is is we never know what the state's really going to give to us, what the federal government is going to give to us,

[12180-228] Jen Gallagher | Public commenter, Ward 2 (first says ward one, corrected to two; presc | 2022-02-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: I know we're not going.
TEXT> I'm personally. Affected by this. My son currently attends preschool at the program.  He has done such they've done such a wonderful job with him.  We're a no diverse family.  And we just really. I feel like the community is scared. They think, oh, no, what's going to happen to my kids? Like, I'm on a waiting list for the pre-K. Like what is going to happen? And we just people want answers, and I think they want a little bit of hope. And what I'm hearing is very hopeful, and I'm hearing a lot of collaboration. And I also  would like to see if we can increase community engagement.  I was a little nervous when I got up here because I'm not really great at public speaking. So sorry if I'm a little shaky.  But one of the things that for me was really eye opening is I went looking for, like, parent groups, and it's actually really hard to find them here. And when I moved here,  What's up? Claremont was a great, like, online resource. Of course, it's hard to move anywhere during a pandemic, but,  here we are. So,  I just want people to know that, like, we have a lot to offer here. And sometimes I just hear people like, oh, like, the school system is in Claremont is a joke. And I think we should be upset about that because it's not a joke. And these are our kids. So thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Steve. Josh I'm sorry. Let Josh. Josh hasn't spoken tonight.

[12180-248] Paige | Pre-K Coordinator, Claremont School District (first name only on the r | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: there's like what it looks like by the numbers right now is you may have a couple more typically developing kids than you do special ed right now, based on the numbers. But that's the that's the juggling that has to go on, I guess.
TEXT> And, and I just want to back up to what Mike's saying. I think that all of our kids have special needs when they come to us, every single child we differentiate out for. So whether they have special needs or not, and whether that is a law that we have to follow, I just want people to recognize that they all come to us and they all are learning and they're all learning new things.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So thank you, Steve.

[12180-251] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: this restructuring and started to get the information out, there was so much backlash for fear of changing the local school feel. At the end of the day, I understand that to an extent, but you have to look at it as the greater good.
TEXT> We are responsible as a board, as an administrative team and as taxpayers to educate the children. There is not an option on that, and we're trying to find every way to get the early intervention involved. I didn't have that fortunate program when I was younger. My children didn't have that fortunate experience, but we've tried to develop a way to go there. And in the process, there was so much public backlash that it was clouding. The small issue was clouding the ultimate goal. And I think that while social media can be a useful tool, it's also a very dangerous weapon because it locks people into a certain thinking without coming to these meetings to question us and what our reasoning is. The other thing is, is that we can't all come out onto Facebook altogether and tell you what our thought is, because the moment we do, it's considered a meeting. So when I don't answer an email that's addressed to the whole board, it's because I don't know who's answered it, because I creates a discussion which creates a quorum. So I do it selectively as I do on Facebook. I don't really use it, I do see it, but I don't go out and respond because I don't want to put the board in question or  create an issue legally that would put the district in a pint.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, okay.

[12180-277] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it's been it's been running really well. These are this is the kind of the latest stuff I sent out on the 10th, ironically, when I was under under the Omicron in it hit there and you can see all all of the other things.
TEXT> Those are our absences.  Related since then,  this this was also charted  very well. Coordinated. This is this is the recent stuff I looked at. If you look at the lower right,  the board looked for information. I pulled it today. I had consistent stuff with the elementaries, including unity, that you can see going back to the before times. Okay.  Where you're looking at about 93, 93, 94%,  attendance rate, it's down about a factor of six evenly across the elementaries. It was harder to get the middle school, and it was a little bit more substantial in the high school, as you might expect at that age. But it's but  that's that's the decline. That's what we're seeing overall. These are the numbers kind of blown up. All of the students, all of the all of these numbers as well, are you can see on that other grid, if you haven't followed that, we report out as needed.  We are doing  and I think we're, kids are coming back with  or on the sixth day when when they're out  followed.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is the tracking and what you can see that, that we're proud of. With this data, you can see the consistency. You can see the spikes, the valleys and

[12180-286] Unidentified | Unidentified - cluster mixes the chair, roll-call vote answers and oth | 2022-02-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: of students by 39. Yes, I get that. It's going to change those numbers so that the discrepancy is still a wide discrepancy. But if you're looking comparing apples to apples, it's 52 out of five, 49 if we're going back to September because that.
TEXT> None of those students. No.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No.

[12180-295] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Joshua Lambert: The number of cases don't.
TEXT> That's fine. What I'm getting at is are these kids being pulled to be homeschooled or are.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No.

[12180-299] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So some of that shakes out anyway. I don't know that that is exactly related to homeschooling. We see most of the homeschooling actually happening earlier, you know. So, but I can I can try to follow up with that. I don't have a direct.
TEXT> Yeah, I wasn't I'm not as concerned as I was saying. It's a, it's a 1% swing on the number. That doesn't mean anything to me. It's more along the lines of the percentage of the students that have unregistered from the district. That was concerning to me in that short span, just in the high school alone.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other thoughts. All right. For the for further comments discussion. All right.

[12180-303] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. No.
TEXT> And that's just catastrophic. So,  if we're ever going to start looking at, you know, looking at these protocols again, I think that has to be front and center is that,  we have to put student learning before front center and keep these kids in school as much as we possibly can.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There's always seems to be the case. Before I, I don't really start anything new, so I'm watching channel nine news before I come to the school board meeting. And

[12180-316] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> If it doesn't make any sense, or if we're just doing an abundance of caution that ends up being damaging to our student population. So, Nick.
NEXT> Nicholas Stone: You know, I'm not sure I quite agree with Frank, but I you know, I'm kind of right in the middle where I really wouldn't want to say what I

[12180-328] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter on masks (ward heard as 'Three'; name  | 2022-02-02
PREV> Unidentified: are the least happy they've been in 50 years. Covid related stresses are the main cause of a drastic shift towards unhappiness. Our endless Covid protocols, including masks, a factor in that. In conclusion, we know cloth and disposable masks that kids don't kids wear.
TEXT> Don't work to prevent the spread of Covid. And we know kids aren't at tangible risk if they contract Covid. Are we forcing kids to wear them because it makes some people in our community feel safer? Despite contrary evidence, I'm challenging this board to begin navigating and Demick disease that we need to live with. I feel safe saying that masking our kids forever is not supported by most parents. Thank you. Thank. You, thank you.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other comments from the community.

[12180-330] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Whitney Skilling'); elected to the boar | 2022-02-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other comments from the community.
TEXT> I,  I have. A comment about the what Mr. Sprague was saying. My name is Whitney Skilling, by the way. Ward two,  about what Mr. Sprague was saying about the endemic reality. And I agree with you that the pandemic, the Covid 19 virus is not going away and its impacts are not going to go away. Even if the virus suddenly disappeared tomorrow, there would be lasting impacts on our on every single one of us. And in 50 years, epidemiologists are going to be studying us as the cohort who lived through Covid to look at these impacts. So I think I agree with, with Mr. Sprog, that we need to start dealing with this and planning for this now.  And I know that most of the conversation has been around Covid policy and mask wearing, but that's not what I'm talking about. What I mean is the long term mental health impacts the long term physical impacts. Long Covid is really beating up some people's lungs and internal systems, and that's going to impact their ability to work and make money for their families and feed their children. What are we going to do about that? What are we going to do about the children that have social delays from being outside the classroom for so long?
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Miss Whitney mentioned that there are 220 something missing school days that has had a serious impact on the social development of children, which we'll have to deal with later,

[12180-331] Whitney Skillen | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Whitney Skilling'); elected to the boar | 2022-02-02
PREV> Whitney Skillen: to impact their ability to work and make money for their families and feed their children. What are we going to do about that? What are we going to do about the children that have social delays from being outside the classroom for so long?
TEXT> Miss Whitney mentioned that there are 220 something missing school days that has had a serious impact on the social development of children, which we'll have to deal with later, and we need to plan for that. They're going to need extra assistance. They're going to need extra care. They're definitely going to need extra love. And we need to plan for what we're how we're going to deal with that, because it is it is going to be a lasting impact. And that's just a scientific guarantee. And I think that's something we need to start planning now as as to what Mr. Sprague said and if there's any. And I guess the most important question we always need to ask ourselves is when we're thinking about these strategies and these plans and these policies, just how are these policies, plans and strategies benefiting the students of Claremont? And there will be impacts after this pandemic that we need to start accounting for today.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[12204-24] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Richard Seaman: as voters are voting on what the expense is, ultimately the makeup of the revenue decides what our tax rate is. So what this is saying and I'm going to hold the first one district assessment is what we raise out of our local taxes.
TEXT> So let's hold on that for a moment. We'll go to some of the others. Tuition. This is institution people who tuition their kids from their town to ours. For example, unity, which doesn't have a high school, sends a number of their kids to speak and we receive a caution for that. It's budgeted this year for $750,000 in savings for next year to wishing for vocational ed. Same thing. Transportation fees which are received related to vocational anticipated would be flat. Interest income was down. We can't just pay for 60,000 this year, but for anyone who gets a bank statement, there doesn't seem to be any interest or returns that we're getting on our funds that are there. So I blow that by $30,000. Pupil activities at 1500 stays the same, other which are contribution and dollars that come in from a range of different sources, is anticipated to be flat fund balance to reduce taxes, which is the surplus that we anticipate out of this year's budget, which will go to reduce taxes for next year, has been pretty consistently in the 400,000 level and
NEXT> Richard Seaman: anticipated that to be street level going forward. So our local sources are at the net of the first one. The district assessment. We come down below, we've got our

[12204-30] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID [66]) | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: have questions. This is the time to come to the podium and ask those questions again. As a reminder, we come to the podium, please sign in. And then we begin to see. We need to know your name and your board of residence. Yes.
TEXT> My name is Candace Crawford, Ward two. I look at the proposed budget. According to U.S. News and World Report research, the graduation rate at Stevens High School is 79%, compared to a rate of 91.8% for all of New Hampshire. I believe these are based on 2019 the year, because those are the most recent that are available. The math proficiency rate for Stevens is 32%, compared to an average of 40% for New Hampshire high schools. The reading proficiency rate is 51%, compared to 60% for the average of New Hampshire high schools. Stevens High School is rated 62 out of 8484, being the worst. Stevens High School student teacher ratio is 13 to 1. Other area schools are  Newport 11.6 to 1. Set up the 10 to 1 and follow up on 121. That means our teachers have a higher student workload and our students get less attention. Given these statistics, why is the Claremont School Board recommending a 2023 budget that is the same amount as the default budget, because obviously there is a tremendous need to improve education. Why should voters go to the effort to go and vote if it doesn't mean anything one way or the other? Either they vote or they don't. It's the same results.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Secondly, according to an article in the Valley News, from 2020, approximately 34% of our graduates planned to enter the workforce without further education. If one third of our graduates

[12204-33] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and also kind of scheduling and just trying to get more kids in to take those courses. So that's what we're focused on. So, and in terms of the quality of. In terms of the default budget. I think Mr. Stevens talked to that better.
TEXT> Well, thanks, pandemic and everyone. It's not that they aren't working. It's not that there isn't a feeling, I think, amongst the board, amongst the administration that these statistics which were  presented are not where we want to be throwing more money at it just for the sake of throwing more money at it is it is not what this budget does. This budget is looking at a range of strategies, a range of restructures, a range of scheduling,  a range of changes in the curriculum and what is being offered in the curriculum, a range of opportunities being offered with the use of cares and cares after money. And we need to continue to look at the progression that we have there. So the budget still looks at trying to address these individual statistics which were presented, but the determination from the board and the recommendation of the industry is that doesn't need more money, that needs a different use of the money that we currently have. So the  one one thing that we have a lot of faith in this changing,  changing the schedules and in terms of  in the next two years, and specifically for other Mondays that are outside the budget, the CARES funds are going to allow us to put in more teachers.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We've already been spending it on student tutoring, summer programs of extra help, types of programs, and that's why you don't see a portion of those monies. Now we have

[12204-36] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID [66]) | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: This is do you have an auto up? I do in terms of transparency, I'm sorry, but we have to make.
TEXT> In terms of transparency.  How  how  do we as taxpayers know  how much of that money is going to be spent and where is it going to be spent and will impact improving,  proficiency of our students?  And  the other question is,  is still didn't get an answer of why  voters should support this budget. Vote yes or no when it doesn't make any difference. I didn't get that answered. Maybe you gave it. I just didn't understand. You know, one of the.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Things, and I know you had extensive history on the school board yourself. And, one of the things that happened now, SP two is that the Richard probably can explain

[12204-49] Andy | Public commenter, Ward 3, vice chair of the Claremont Development Auth | 2022-02-09
PREV> Unidentified: what the needs are. As for employees in this community with the, you know, the development program we should add is Allen Ecorse EMT. What can we add there? But right now, next year, the need of the tech center is for the five position.
TEXT> Andy Ward three. And speaking tonight for the Claremont Development Authority as vice chair. The CEA is a group of volunteer community business leaders approved by the city Claremont City Council to support Claremont Economic Development and CDA wishes to take the board and the administration for its hard work in this. Not easy also to express its support for strengthening  programing and enrollment with within the Sugar Reveille Community Technical Center, as you've suggested, but also to express concerns over the proposed budget changes leading to the reduction  of a full time director within the facility, especially for long term growth. For years in our work, we've heard from business leaders about local, regional and national challenges finding qualified workers. Many of our own businesses seek individuals with the kinds of skills that career pathways through our local and regional technical centers can provide. The local regional economies continue to need. It's a strong case for future opportunities for people with these skills for this very purpose. The New Hampshire State Plan for 2023 is in deployment  by the State of New Hampshire Department of Education as part of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The CDA, along with many individuals and organizations within our communities. People here tonight feel strongly that programing available through the Sugar Valley Community Technical Center should be strengthened and made available and promoted to more of our students.
NEXT> Andy: And while running Start or Bridge to College are wonderful, they don't take the place of CT programing. Addressing this would help with career pathways. For more of our students

[12204-50] Andy | Public commenter, Ward 3, vice chair of the Claremont Development Auth | 2022-02-09
PREV> Andy: Education for the 21st Century Act. The CDA, along with many individuals and organizations within our communities. People here tonight feel strongly that programing available through the Sugar Valley Community Technical Center should be strengthened and made available and promoted to more of our students.
TEXT> And while running Start or Bridge to College are wonderful, they don't take the place of CT programing. Addressing this would help with career pathways. For more of our students from middle school through high school and beyond. You mentioned that our position is that this is best accomplished, among other things that Mr. Tempesta and Mr. Simmons have indicated, and some and the board to with a dedicated full time director position charged with the task. We also support the convening of a vision and committee that's been mentioned for help identifying the future director of the direction of the city. But the CDA asked the Claremont School Board and the administration, all of whom have stated their understanding of the importance of the sugar River Valley Community Technical Center and its programing to pursue these and other initiatives, to reconsider custody aforementioned position and recognize the need for a full time director dedicated to programing and to growth at that facility.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: Gary Merchant or do I have a motion in regards to the fall budget versus the main article budget we did at that point in time? Vote with three.

[12204-78] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter asking whether amendment money can be  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Unidentified: school board. The budget committee is only authority of the recommend a budget to the full school board. Would that vote happen to public or would it be a nonpublic decision? Any decision of the full school board would have to happen in public reaction.
TEXT> Okay, I just want up here. I just want to  take center. Yes, totally. You know, I totally support you guys. Have to keep a full position. I also want to express my concern for the fourth district,  employees  that are  being cut by this budget, and I don't even think we know what those are, to be honest. The position. I  think it was in a public. And so I urge you also think about those four positions because of our for educators that work hard in our district and deserve to have their jobs and work with our kids because I know they all work hard. So I just want to stress that concern about that as well. Thank you so much. That's fine. A second time.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I don't.

[12204-85] Unidentified | Unidentified - board or administration responder | 2022-02-09
PREV> Gary Merchant: with a client within communities around Claremont, and that takes time. So I'm not asking you everything for a different person, but for the position to be restored a full time and the one that just became vacant, it it hasn't worked for many years.
TEXT> Okay. The total number of students that have gone through it's a capacity. I'm not saying no. Absolutely not. That we don't have the need not to think that we aren't doing things  in terms of with our students and with not that there isn't a community need. Don't don't misread that. We're just looking at other ways to put that in, you know, through the through the schedule, through other types of programs. Thank you.
NEXT> Derek Bergman: Very much. Derek Bergman, Ward three undermining of a brother. Funny thing that my dad had when I was growing up. Working on projects around the house, and I think

[12204-88] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'born and Miles ... Ward two' [204]) | 2022-02-09
PREV> Derek Bergman: be better than what it is today, I think the Vision Committee is a step in the right direction. Let's get the community involvement, figure out what the number of programs is, and provide the support to the director position to make it happen. Thanks.
TEXT> Thank you for being here tonight. My name is born and Miles, and I'm on Ward two and. You stop and think about this. This is really embarrassing that here we are,  a room full of people. And I hate to say that the table here, but it's it's. I cannot in favor of education.  I just I don't get it. We have a chance to. We have a man who wanted to add to the budget almost $62,000. It sounds like a lot of money, but, you know, you. You kind. Of put in some what, holding these kids back. We have a lot of kids that do not want to go to full year college. They can't afford the big student debts that will follow them through part of their lives. And this is their chance. And it's not it's not being pagan. And I know  this  was mentioned before, but I'm not sure about the people here in the room.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: But this was a letter from the Department of Education, and it was, addressed to Mr. Herzog. And this was from the part of the Perkins application which was mentioned.

[12204-90] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter on Claremont's image (possibly Bonnie  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Bonnie Miles: education and outlines the outlines the road ahead for city CTE at the sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center in Como and dated May of 2020. So this I think that was. I pointed out across second. Thank you, thank you. Yes yes yes yes.
TEXT> And we struggle with image in Claremont. We all know we tried to write a good education for his children, but if the word goes out that we're going to cut out  the head of  technical center or whatever, however you want to  call that position or make it a different position, that just makes it sound like we've leased internally and especially externally. We're throwing the baby out with the backwater. So I agree with everyone else's comments, but I'd like to consider our image. And  who would like to move to Claremont, and who would like to send their Claremont their kids to Claremont schools and hit be educated here. And I think the one opportunity this particular community has is to educate the children to do something that's not college education. That is our one opportunity.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Mister. Both. I'm sorry. One more time. I mean, if you haven't already spoken, could you please come down and and and turn it to both? Understand?

[12204-95] Unidentified | Unidentified - tech center teacher answering questions on CTE director | 2022-02-09
PREV> Tom Gallagher: Please take that into consideration. Please understand that you have the power to consider what people are saying. Thank you.
TEXT> Question about student numbers though, because there was one aspect of that I forgot. This is just answering that question. Still, when you look at the numbers, I might have to ask the board, do you see the numbers of students that are also in the introductory or bigger programs and things like that? Because that also makes a big difference. I have an engineering class that may not be part of those numbers that I'm running about 30 students through this second semester about. I have an introductory class. I'll probably around about 50 through. I don't think the state reports those numbers as full program numbers. And so I just wanted to  answer that question for further is that we do have some introductory classes. Could we have more? Of course. I love the idea of having the eighth grade type of things going on. I've heard something. So  just to answer that question a little bit more, but we also do have some beta programs. A  kind of a half program going on. Beta programs are pretty full. Covid did hit us pretty hard because the students having to take requirements that they missed because they were online, and some students did the work and naturally, some didn't.
NEXT> Unidentified: And the next year they had to go back and get those classes again. So that is the trends that I've seen and that I've actually experienced as a teacher.

[12204-119] Tom Kinnear | Public commenter, Ward 2 (ASR 'Tom Kinnear, Ward two' [269]; spelling  | 2022-02-09
PREV> Charlene Lovett: You're good.
TEXT> So. Ironically, were  among the richest states in the United States. But we spend the least amount on education by the state, New Hampshire, due to the leadership and continued advocacy by the Claremont School District. Has  had the Supreme Court interpret our Constitution as delineating education as a fundamental right. So here we are  sitting, waiting for the legislature to get off their backsides and do what they should have done 30 years ago. So here we are,  debating over something that  I support and think should pass. But  it's it's. And having been there done that is always a balancing between the taxpayers  and the needs of the children. And, you know, I think the I'd be very surprised that the school board and  superintendent and staff don't follow your wishes, but there's more to be done. We have some some great legislators in. But there's Gary here. So anyway,  I support the amendment and I support the continued advocacy by Frank Sprague and others to tell our legislators to to do the right thing and not play politics with our kids. Again, the language that was drafted by John Adams, who during the Revolutionary War, which we adopted in our Constitution, was that, you know, education isn't just a nice thing to have. Okay. Yeah. Playgrounds and post offices and roads and education. No, it was essential to the preservation of that free government that they were fighting life and limb for and which ultimately prevailed.
NEXT> Tom Kinnear: So, I support the school board and all of you.

[12204-125] Derek Bergman | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Derek Bergman, Ward three' [196], ' | 2022-02-09
PREV> Unidentified: Terrifying question on this. I'm curious, of the effect of the two, the proposed amendment and the acceptance. What the would that change the default budget? Thank you.
TEXT> Derek Ward three. So I am in support of this amendment as well. In addition to the reasons. Already stated. About building those. Bridges between the middle school program and. The tech center, I think. Another point that was.  Referenced by Miss Crawford is the failure rate at Stevens High School. My son is graduated this past year. I think this past year it was closer to 30%,  perhaps impacted by Covid. But of the 110 or so kids in his class, only about 80 or 85 actually walked graduation. I had the fortune to attend a program a couple of years ago, and we had a chance to tour and listen to the Hartford, Vermont Tech Center, and the director at the time, Doug Heaviside,  took an immense amount of pleasure in connecting with kids who perhaps weren't great fits for a traditional learning environment. He called them hot,  the tone of language down to fit the audience what he called those the few kids. And those are the kids that when you walk by the hallway and greet them in the morning, the response would be few. He targeted those kids for his text and her program. In fact, the young lady that briefed us on her  participation in the Natural Resources program, we were blown away in her professionalism and the enthusiasm that she had.
NEXT> Derek Bergman: And after she was done, Doug said, that was one of the few kids when I started this program a couple years ago. So I don't know that this would

[12204-126] Derek Bergman | Public commenter, Ward 3 (self-ID 'Derek Bergman, Ward three' [196], ' | 2022-02-09
PREV> Derek Bergman: morning, the response would be few. He targeted those kids for his text and her program. In fact, the young lady that briefed us on her participation in the Natural Resources program, we were blown away in her professionalism and the enthusiasm that she had.
TEXT> And after she was done, Doug said, that was one of the few kids when I started this program a couple years ago. So I don't know that this would be the silver bullet,  but I think the tech center programing with a guidance person who can reach out and connect with those kids offers an opportunity  to help with our overall failure rate. It won't solve every problem for every kid, but I think it is  another advantage. And again, it's something that I don't think the director  would have time to do. Thank you.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Thank you.

[12204-164] Charlene Lovett | Acting moderator, Claremont School District deliberative session (intr | 2022-02-09
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thanks to work and work with Alex and with, I'm trying to Sharon McDaniel and Sherry as the negotiators and again, people watching at home, people here, please support this. These these people are critical to the school district are our educational leaders. Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you. Is there anybody else you'd like to speak on this? Okay. If not a close to the discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye,  aye. Anybody opposed? The ayes have it. 12. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies room concludes our meeting tonight. Thank you. I know it's going to live longer than I'm probably respected, but on behalf of myself and the school district, I'd like to thank you for coming out tonight and making your life one here. Okay.
NEXT> 

[12210-55] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, attending remotely (roll call 'Doctor L | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: Yeah. We got.
TEXT> All right. So first of all, I don't think we can take masks off of busses. I think that is a national recommendation, not recommendation. National requirement that Max need to stay on on all the United States transportation, including school busses.  Aside from that, right now, we're in the middle of winter, and I think that's not a great idea. Numbers are much higher than they were at the beginning of the school year, when we could have windows open and proper ventilation.  There's,  the CDC and  the American Academy of Pediatrics are still recommending universal masking, regardless of vaccination status inside K-12 schools.  And we can't just think about the students. We have older staff members who are at a higher risk than our students are, and everyone is focused on their kids. Well, it's part of being part of a society. You need to, you know, buck up and do what you need to do to protect people. And I think like the visitors thing, like that's fine, especially with the concert issue that's come up. I don't think there's any reason to prevent spectators, as long as their masks either allow mass spectators or don't have the concerts at all.
NEXT> Joshua Lambert: But other than that, I mean the masking issue. No one professional has stated that we're in an endemic situation. Obviously, we're probably headed there, but I'm not going to

[12210-127] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> Well, I guess we have to kind of consider that in many parts of the world, particularly well funded, areas in Finland, Norway, Denmark. I mean, I have a list of, of countries in Europe that have, have never required masks for primary school children.  And that the European CDC has different requirements than our CDC. So I, it's not universally accepted that this is is an appropriate way of of managing students, in particular in primary education. So and in reality, there's also been a directive  from the European CDC not to mask children at the elementary school level because it inhibits learning and social emotional skill development. So, you know, it's just I think, you know, Nick said it two meetings ago that if not us, who if not now, when are we going to make changes? And I think it's incumbent upon us to start putting  children first. And the idea that they're at grave  physical risk is, isn't the case. And the fact that we are  causing great harm is evidenced by  dramatic increases in mental health issues, suicide attempts by adolescents, disruptive behavior in schools, which we've actually seen at Stevens. And these kind of mandates are our,  are hurting our kids and not helping them. So that's where I'm at with it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to allow some of the public to to speak your name and ward, please.

[12210-131] Unidentified | Unidentified - public commenter opposing the motion; name and ward not | 2022-02-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: I have a master of science degree, and I have a master's in anesthesia, and I've worked in critical care, and I've also been certified. Or I have privileges to provide care for Covid patients.
TEXT> Thank you. Additionally, from what I'm seeing so far, it seems like there's not a strong argument to change anything. The only thing it seems like is you have opinions. Opinions? We have the opinion, your opinions. I'm sorry. Or the invalid. We have the CDC, we have the government. And to,  to say that you just don't feel like it anymore. Is it a service to our children?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I mean, I.

[12210-152] Michael | Public commenter, Ward 3 (ASR 'Michael Ward three'; surname not given) | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael: come up with a sustainable plan to live with it. And that's all we're really talking about here. You know, we are doing more harm than good. And we have been for a while. We've known for a long time that kids weren't at risk.
TEXT> That's not disputable. Those facts are proven all around the world. Why are we continuing to use an operating system that is obsolete against the Omicron variant that we have today, which is much less dangerous, much more contagious? The masks aren't making a difference. And honestly, the rest of the protocols are a huge problem too. And I think that needs to also be on the conversation, because I know in my own family, both of my kids have had it. They've both been out of school multiple times with close contacts that have had it. They've both missed sporting events and extracurricular activities as a result of quarantine related issues. I asked people that work for me the the daily drama of who's not going to be at work today or who can't go out and do a service call today because they have to stay home with their six year old daughter because the school said that they have to, you know, this stuff is creating a never ending series of daily drama that the citizens of this town are putting up with.
NEXT> Michael: And we've done that for two years, most of us with the idea that, hey, this was a temporary situation. We're doing it to try to protect the at risk.

[12210-155] Veronica | District school nurse (uncertain title; superintendent asks 'Veronica  | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Comment to Vermont is that, again, as Mike said, they're shooting for March 1st, so there's lead time. They also have a, there's students are vaccinated at 80% or higher in Vermont. I don't know what they are in in Claremont, New Hampshire.
TEXT> So,  so Vermont is recommending but the school has to be at 80% and to speak to the students who are staying home,  who've had to be home. Honestly, if you've had your child vaccinated and you get your child vaccinated, they don't have to stay home. Nobody has to stay home unless they're symptomatic. So I encourage people to get their children vaccinated. They only just introduced the vaccine for our elementary school kids back in, I think, October or November. So we're just catching up with that. But anytime the students are vaccinated and most of the students who we had to stay home in quarantine are those that are unvaccinated.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So the.

[12210-159] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member, attending remotely (roll call 'Doctor L | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Josh I'm sorry. Go ahead. Josh.
TEXT> Yeah, I was going to speak to the Vermont thing, but that was already covered.  But we also keep focusing on students. And it's not just about the students. You have to remember that wearing these masks prevents others from getting sick. It doesn't prevent you from getting sick. It prevents others from catching your germs. So if we have a bunch of people who decide, oh, I no longer want my kid to wear a mask, it's going to be the more reckless people who are going to infect the ones who are trying to keep others safe. And again, we're still talking about children, and we're not considering the older adults who work in these schools who love their jobs and don't want to quit because people decide that they're now epidemiology experts. And it's we're still in the middle of winter. It's not the right time.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Good.

[12210-177] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Petrin: So just to follow the state guidelines is for returning to school. And follow the federal guidelines for masking during transportation. And then we pushed the start date till Monday the 21st.
TEXT> I do want to speak. I just want to speak a little bit to what Josh is saying, and,  and I and I do hear that, that there's an interest in protecting,  adults. But I think there comes a time where,  the cost of having children bearing the burden of protecting adults is, is too high. And there have been so many dramatic negative consequences to children, their mental health, their ability to develop normally. And these things are, are well documented there. Those are things that experts have said is occurring. And we have plugged our ears and we only listen to one type of expert anymore. We're not listening to mental health experts. We're not listening to child development experts, and we're not listening to people who are experts on delivering education and what that face to face interaction means. And this school board is, is exists to do what's best for students.  Vaccinated adults are not really at super high risk of having dramatic negative consequences. And 95 masks protect you.  We have  an abundance of N95 masks available to any educator that would like to wear it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Do we.

[12210-180] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (maker of the mask-matrix motion; Pe | 2022-02-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Do we have 2000 and more.
TEXT> For 2095? Masks are available for educators, and I would encourage anyone who I mean, there's going to be no way we wouldn't say, here's your mask.  And so I think we just need to put kids first. And  adults need to accept the burden of risk.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, I'm ready to move this. So since we have someone remote, I'm going to ask for a roll call. Vote Mrs. Woodman on this motion.

[12210-186] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steve.' [83] before t | 2022-02-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay, good.
TEXT> Once again, that argument is completely counter argument. It's counterintuitive, the mask on your face. And to protect your face, you're breathing in only your own germs. That's supposed to be filtering out the outside for educators. Want to wear a mask, and whoever wants to wear a mask so they can. So to try to blame the people who aren't wearing a mask like they're out here committing genocide of the the mask is just insane. It the argument doesn't even make any logical sense the way it's being put out there. We have to do something for these children. This board's asked several times for the rough idea of instructional days or hours missed by these students. We haven't gotten that information, but we know it's a lot. I mean, we don't really need to know the the exact it's a lot. We're once again sacrificing the children for the adults because the children are losing out on their education to protect the adults. We've seen it time and time again. So I make a motion to move the question to a vote.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is everybody aware of what we're of what we're voting on? No. Okay. So let's restate the motion.

[12210-200] Bonnie Miles | Public commenter (chair thanks 'Bonnie' [268]; surname from the 2/9/20 | 2022-02-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> For letting me speak before you vote. It's a tough decision. I I'm glad I'm not in your place, but I know I may be someday. I know we have to think of the kids first. Parents are saying I don't want masks. Parents are saying I do want masks. And it's it's a it's a tough. It's a tough fight. It's not easy solving them.  Personally, I'm very,  I think I think you should really be sure. Absolutely sure   of your of your position. Because this is like, get the board here. You got some parents here. Some. It's like a three legged stool. One thing falls, the whole thing's going to fall down. And I think if you got some real professional advice from someone who works in a Covid ward and other teachers and other guidance counselors, put them all together and then decide. And also if if you were to do this, it's a tough one to call. But personally, I would feel better if you if you had to do it, do it like after spring vacation, because everything's closed up. They're all breathing the same air. Spring vacation will be here in no time, and that'll be so much better.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, we've got.

[12315-137] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: How are you?
TEXT> I'm good.  So just to give a little backdrop to the thought behind this and looking at what we see coming on the backside of Covid is that we've seen the gap widening with a lot of our students,  and that social emotionally that's academically. And how do we stop  that gap from widening and what what do we need to put in place? So what we kind of came up with in the thought was some academic centers that would exist at every grade level, on every floor. So one for the sixth grade, seventh grade, eighth grade. And in that room would be a guidance counselor, would be an a dean of students, a campus aide, a special ed director for that grade. So that when we have students that are struggling, whether that be social emotionally, whether that be academically,  you know, behaviors, information. And so that information, we could kind of just triage all of that for students in one place.  A guidance counselor would stay with their grade level. So we have two now. Will take a third. Whomever that would be with six would stay six, then go with seven, then go with eight.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So now you really develop those relationships. And I think a good question to ask when when talking about a guidance counselor is what role do we want a guidance

[12315-138] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: just triage all of that for students in one place. A guidance counselor would stay with their grade level. So we have two now. Will take a third. Whomever that would be with six would stay six, then go with seven, then go with eight.
TEXT> So now you really develop those relationships. And I think a good question to ask when when talking about a guidance counselor is what role do we want a guidance counselor to have. Is it just to to service students to talk about relationships or is it more?  And do we want them to stay with these students and develop that so they can work as they're getting into the text? Enter into the high school as a team. And you know, right now we have 370 students.  At any given time, there's one student in a crisis  or in need, and that leaves one guidance counselor for 369 students.  And if we want our students to reach out to our parents, not just our students, they really need to have a small caseload to be able to do that. So looking at that, putting that in with a dean of students and a campus aide.  The idea would be that you're helping triage what is exactly going on?  From all angles. And it's not just, okay, there's behavior. The hammer nail method. We need something more for these students.  And it may be that it's social, emotional, and that's going to help with the academics.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: It may need that. They need some more individual time. Smaller classes, smaller attention. More attention in smaller settings. So these academic centers that will exist will really help those

[12315-158] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Romeo: these classrooms, a student is telling us, I need this as well. And I think if we're going to listen, this is kind of some of the things that we can put in place for them as going to your how do we dissolve this?
TEXT> My thought. I mean, the counselor I really think is something I believe strongly that would need to stay.  And and that's to to your question. That's one thing. I look at this as we need to stop the bleeding somewhere in regards to what's going on with some of the students and being able to support them, no student is going to learn, no adults going to learn if they don't feel safe and supported. And while there's so much support there and they're safe in school, they need to feel social, emotionally support, academically safe. And I think providing this does that. I think this if you take a look at this over the next couple of years, if we develop this, I really think, this will help us get back on track. We use the train scenario.  And I think that if we're looking at this over the next couple of years  and we put this in place, I think this helps really put structures in place and we may not need it would be great. Believe me, it would be great to have all of this. And I and I get that and we have to be responsible.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: You know, to the community and what we're spending. But I really see for right now, in the next couple of years, this is really going to help set in

[12315-169] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School (superintendent calls up 'Principal | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sure.
TEXT> Yeah. So I see it. You know, we all take on all of those things, right?  Every employee I think is, is  is part of that their job description. I see the campus aid really as,  a secondary academic support, social emotional support, conflict resolution, healthy decision making, things that your, your conflicts that you're having within your peer conflicts and things like that. So I think that is part of that support. I think the dean helps with some of,  the discipline that's happening with the teachers. What's in your toolbox? What do you need to do? How else can we approach? I think some of the things Mike was talking about and how we're going to speak to our students and support our students, that really would be a dean and really overseeing that. And then you have your campus aid, part of the part of that development with counselors,  with the Dean social emotionally.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. I'd like to call up one of order.

[12315-180] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: sounds similar to this, the, the but I guess the one thing I guess I was kind of trying to wrap my head around. So that was like one program. So we had kids eighth through, you know, kind of middle school in high school.
TEXT> But,  it was a self-contained program. And the reason kind of bringing up is because a lot of these kids, you know, it's social, they're the issues are behavioral. You know, I mean, they do have some academic issues, but they were in our program for behavior,  more so so we would give them academic support. But a lot of what we were doing was, Behavior intervention and just,  when there were issues, we would have to kind of we would have a, a group with the students and staff.  We had to do kind of one on one processing with them and kind of creating a kind of reentry plan, things like that. And the reason I'm bringing that up is, I think what a what made that program kind of work. It was kind of one program, I guess. I'm kind of confused by the structure here.  I just want to kind of see it. Are we talking about the same kind of thing? And if so, is this one kind of whole program or they're going to be three different programs because how would that be dealt with? If you have kids, there's some of these kids that I know.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: They're in our school system. They're not failing one subject. It's and the kids I worked with, it wasn't one subject. It was a broader issue in which their behaviors

[12315-181] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: we talking about the same kind of thing? And if so, is this one kind of whole program or they're going to be three different programs because how would that be dealt with? If you have kids, there's some of these kids that I know.
TEXT> They're in our school system. They're not failing one subject.  It's and the kids I worked with, it wasn't one subject. It was a broader issue in which their behaviors and were in their academic struggles kind of went across the board.  So I guess I was trying to understand. Are we talking kind of three separate classrooms or one program? And also, I guess how I guess.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is it.

[12315-186] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Pretty much.
TEXT> Yeah. So in terms I'll try to summarize,  Mr. Romeo and also speak to the other one. So when you see the split screen right there. So the top is only for the middle schools, the, the essence of it to boil down and summarize pop in if I'm off rank but is  the but the what's parallel between the high school program in which we'll get to and also the middle school program is that we're intervening sooner in smaller chunks with support so kids don't lose credit or get so far behind. The academic center in general is all purpose in focused. And I think the biggest piece of this where I  frankly think it's pretty, it's pretty brilliant, is by grade level, you have the wraparound support so that not only  in the,  Moscheles  point before about what is the campus aid and how does it all work? Everyone in that room is a wraparound support for all of the students. Middle schools in general are teamed,  and that's the essence of it. So the focus on this now too, as opposed to other it's a fairly common model across the country. But the reason now after Covid  to to really focus on this is to Principal Romeo's point is some of these kids haven't been in a regular classroom for. So that's why it's all hands on deck, and that's why it's so concentrated in terms of how it might to get to the other question.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we'll get to that before and then. And I know for time we'll have the high school come up. But that's that's the essence of it. And you can

[12315-189] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and, and also to talk about specifically we have a similar act. We already have a structure that will talk about but also the, the alt program that we're trying to get back to look at that, that dropout non complete rate as well okay.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Say how. Happy amen to be here. And I'm really looking forward to finishing this year and moving on to the next. The students, the staff everyone have been fantastic. We really have. So  I'll just go right down the list. I mean, I work backwards in regards to, you know, we have all this SM money, you know, what is that going to mean when the ESA funds are out? And,  you know, how much is the tax going to be left holding? I think right now it's just looking at it's a, it's a to answer the questions that put forth before is like it's all about if we're looking at the money while we were giving it's for mitigation. It's saying these kids right now have lost so much over Covid and we still haven't gotten through a whole year without it. So what we're hoping by using this money is creating these programs without the taxpayers having to flip the bill and say it worked or it didn't work, and saying, okay, this is what  we want to hopefully use, and it's going to be successful by trying to create,  you know, alternative programs in additional positions and along the way keep that data.
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: So at some point when we come to that may have to make difficult decisions on what can we keep, what can we afford to keep, what have we don't

[12315-190] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: the bill and say it worked or it didn't work, and saying, okay, this is what we want to hopefully use, and it's going to be successful by trying to create, you know, alternative programs in additional positions and along the way keep that data.
TEXT> So at some point when we come to that may have to make difficult decisions on what can we keep, what can we afford to keep, what have we don't have to worry about paying for because of attrition, providing that data to the board. So you guys have the information to make the decisions if you need to. But looking at long term subs right now, it's very difficult to find subs in general. And right now still we have some, you know, teachers that may be out due to Covid or something like that. So by having long term subs, permanent subs in the building, we don't have to worry about finding a sub. We have now. We have subs. We're in the building every day. So hopefully there's not as much loss of learning because a lot of times if you have one sub one day and then that same teacher is out for a week and you can't fill that same thing. A lot of times the kids are losing instruction already because they don't have that consistent person, or the person that they even know goes back to the old, you know, oh, it's a sub, you know, we're going to do what we want when we want. So that's trying to, you know, so that. Right. They're just helping us. We rely we have a body that's in the building.
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: They know the kids. They know what's going on in those classrooms because in the buildings a lot. And so hopefully as as time goes on, we don't have to

[12315-191] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: back to the old, you know, oh, it's a sub, you know, we're going to do what we want when we want. So that's trying to, you know, so that. Right. They're just helping us. We rely we have a body that's in the building.
TEXT> They know the kids. They know what's going on in those classrooms because in the buildings a lot. And so hopefully as as time goes on, we don't have to worry about filling all these positions that we can't fill when teachers are out sick or ill. In a lot of times, too, with everything changes so fast, we want them to take their professional development. But it's really tough if we're really trying to protect academic instruction. So the campus aides that you have there, those are the the current three people who work within the the ES room. And so what I'm hoping to do is you have all this punitive pieces going on in schools. You have the out of school suspension, you have in-school suspension. What we're hoping between, you know, the alternative program academic center and the current structure we have is kind of shift that from punitive to restorative. So if kids are getting in trouble in the classroom, one, if they do have to be out of the classroom, we're trying to teach them and learn from their mistakes and move forward so they can make better decisions and have the full wraparound services for them in that setting.
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: Because right now, a kid will get in-school suspension. They'll be in there. They may or may not do work because, you know, we don't have the structures in place

[12315-192] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: trouble in the classroom, one, if they do have to be out of the classroom, we're trying to teach them and learn from their mistakes and move forward so they can make better decisions and have the full wraparound services for them in that setting.
TEXT> Because right now,  a kid will get in-school suspension. They'll be in there. They may or may not do work because, you know, we don't have the structures in place to have, okay, we're going to sit down. We're going to we're going to you can meet with your council. You can be the social worker we're going to put in place, and we're actually going to make it a learning experience for them. And so we're so from that we have the bodies in place. We're just going to kind of switch it from punitive to restorative, you know across the board. And when you get down to the academic center and all programs 30 days into it, I can say that, you know, I don't think we're, you know, right now, I can say we're working with absolutes here. I think a lot of it depends on, you know, you know, if we can if we can find the science and math and English teachers because right now it's tough. I can tell you we're not getting the applicants that we used to. So based on that, there are a lot of different models. You know, I want to look at, you know, I'd like to say, how are we going to how are we going to these students?
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: I think a lot of times, you know, we're trying to work closely with the middle school and have more of a common language and have more of that bridge.

[12315-193] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: we're not getting the applicants that we used to. So based on that, there are a lot of different models. You know, I want to look at, you know, I'd like to say, how are we going to how are we going to these students?
TEXT> I think a lot of times, you know, we're trying to work closely with the middle school and have more of a common language and have more of that bridge. So when kids go to the middle school, to the high school, that you're not changing so much, and is the more that stability of,  of constant what to expect. And so one of those so one of the things how those kids be identified at the end of the year, you have the eighth graders. So moving on to the ninth grade, sometimes they're just not ready. Okay. So those students are identified from the meetings that we've had that they're already behind a little bit. We know that. And we already know the students that we have in ninth grade. Instead of just pushing them along to 10th grade like we like, it can happen and they'll continue to lose ground. And eventually, you know, that's why I drop out. Rate goes down is that this program is for those kids. And so, you know, the other model we're looking at is, is maybe the best thing for some of these kids, because as I as they come and I talk to him and say, well, why isn't it working in the classroom?
NEXT> Christopher Pratt: I just don't like being in the classroom. So why not take advantage of what the the career center has to offer? Break these kids up to an Am group

[12315-194] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Christopher Pratt: for those kids. And so, you know, the other model we're looking at is, is maybe the best thing for some of these kids, because as I as they come and I talk to him and say, well, why isn't it working in the classroom?
TEXT> I just don't like being in the classroom. So why not take advantage of what the the career center has to offer? Break these kids up to an Am group in a PM group and say, okay, you're going to take this class, you're going, you're going to take your academics with the science, math and English for the first half of the day. And the other group will start off here at the center, and then they switch in that way, they're working at their own pace on both, on both ends. We're getting them out of the building. And a lot of times these kids, that's what they want. The full walls of the classroom doesn't work. So those are some of the ideas where we're trying to explore. But a lot hinges on can we even find.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Those.

[12315-196] Christopher Pratt | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School, incoming principal (superint | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Those.
TEXT> Those teachers to come in and do that. So what I call it alternate program, alternative program. Yeah. But it's also academic academic center. It's also a restorative place because we really want to tap into the restorative piece of it. And I think for me, the most important thing is coming in and creating in in establishing work with students. So we have a, a building where teachers want to teach and kids want to be because we can have all the money in the programs in the world, but we have a place that people don't want to be. Learning is not going to take place, so it's expending a lot of time in and really recognizing kids for the positive things that we're doing and shift away from just talking the kids when they're doing something wrong. So, I mean, so that's that's pretty much a nutshell from the high school standpoint.  Of what I can tell you after 30 days. So,  questions.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I'd like to we keep in the train on track here. This is you know, a lot of this is under item number four. So I'd like to if you

[12315-204] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: experience. And so we're thinking, how do we make those work? But if you look at what we've got up here, these are things that we can accommodate in the building. We may be there may be some challenges to find an instructor for those.
TEXT> We're going to work hard to see what we can fill. Some of my instructors currently at the tech center are willing to step up and give up their prep time to teach these classes so that they can get an experience in there. And I'll just go like computer programing. We talked about robotics.  Aviation is one of the CTE fields at other schools,  but we've talked about drones and drones usage and how drones could be a bigger piece in the future. Learn to build would be a carpentry kind of class, where they can learn the basics and elements and get some experience of using hammers and saws. Home repair challenges in plumbing are how do we get young people to kind of go in there and take a look at that, but make that course more of a home repair? And how do you fix things at home? How do you fix a lamp?  And really the courses and of course an intro to health fields so we can start looking at the health sciences and take a look at how do we partner down the road. But this will get students excited in eighth grade. And it really mimics a lot of what we do in our summer camps.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We've had a summer camp every year except for one because of Covid, and we offer students in experience in our classes. I'm not saying it's watered down, but it's

[12315-205] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Alex Herzog: fields so we can start looking at the health sciences and take a look at how do we partner down the road. But this will get students excited in eighth grade. And it really mimics a lot of what we do in our summer camps.
TEXT> We've had a summer camp every year except for one because of Covid, and we offer  students in experience in our classes. I'm not saying it's watered down, but it's a lot more safety driven because we're talking about students going into six, seventh and eighth grade. And from those experiences, we see students that are very interested. Talking to Mr. Romeo, if we didn't have that summer camp program, there's 3 or 4 students that he has worked with that said, wow,  I can't wait to get into the high school to take those classes, because they kind of got that experience over the summer. And that  and those are where we're looking at for in regards to our thing. Lots of planning still to do in it. There's lots of moving pieces that we have to figure out, but I think it's a good plan for the fall. So from what we think  right now is like a 1244 or 1250  till 205, they would come over here and get that experience. We're looking at doing a quarter. We found that if we have intro classes that are semester long and a student is not interested in that intro class, they are not engaged and they just become disruptive and they don't want to do it. So the shorter the classes for us, the shorter time period, and then they could get multiples.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So we're looking at periodic or, you know, off the cuff about 30 students and two classes per quarter. And then that'll get us about 120 students to come through.

[12315-208] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-ID 'I'm D | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You know.
TEXT> And of course, they'll have a good experience here. We rarely have a discipline problem in the tech center because our students are very engaged and move in. If we see anything at all, they're disengaged. They want to sit in the classroom. And of course, we try to engage them and try to get them on different projects. You know, one, for instance, we have one student that's in Mr. Pope's class. Mr. Pope was one of the better instructors that we have here in the school district. And the student just didn't want to be in the machine shop. So we put them down into carpentry and he's flourishing. So those. Are the things we can do, and those are the things we are responsive to. The other thing I wanted to speak to is a visioning committee that has been discussed and kind of brought up a couple of times. We've gotten a lot of great  reach out as to people who are wanted to be involved with that. As you see, Mr. Tempesta put with the Esther money, $100,000 aside, which we can decide how we want to best use that is that visiting new sites is that, you know, holding bigger meetings.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Of course, we want to get the community involved, the public involved, to give their input. Mr. Pope has volunteered. We asked him to kind of lead it, and I

[12315-227] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Bonnie Miles: I know, I know, once gone to the Rhode Island, the school, Johnson and Wales.
TEXT> So congratulations to our bowling team on two years in a row. So  next we have Miss Chastity with the Youth in government proposal. Welcome.
NEXT> Jill Thorsten: Hi, I'm Jill Thorsten. I teach social studies at the high school, but I am also these in government advisor. This year we're in a rebuilding year as well. We

[12315-228] Jill Thorsten | Social studies teacher, Stevens High School, and Youth in Government a | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: So congratulations to our bowling team on two years in a row. So next we have Miss Chastity with the Youth in government proposal. Welcome.
TEXT> Hi, I'm Jill Thorsten. I teach social studies at the high school, but I am also these in government advisor. This year we're in a rebuilding year as well.  We only have ten students going to youth in government this year.  But we definitely had students step up. We have Lily Besser, who's going to be  the chair of the House Judiciary Committee, and Sarah Wood  agreed to be her co-chair because there are so few students across the state going to using government this year. So we had to fill in a lot of holes.  Aubrey Herzog is going to be working on the Executive council this year.  I think she's going for her brother's seat eventually.  We,  got youth in government to agree to only having two students per room for our kids. Because when I met with the parents on a zoom, we  discussed about Covid and those types of things, and the parents felt more comfortable only having two kids per room. And youth and government did agree to that.  They are requiring that the kids, when they're in the  buildings to wear masks, and  they did require that our students get Covid tested, which we did today during our meeting. That was an interesting experience.  We had Nancy Lewis, the former adviser to Using Government, came in a couple of weeks ago to help the girls who were going to be chair about how to run through parliamentary procedure and that type of thing.
NEXT> Jill Thorsten: And those girls that are going. To be our chairs, they are going to morrow after school for an extra night down in youth. The government will there they will

[12315-229] Jill Thorsten | Social studies teacher, Stevens High School, and Youth in Government a | 2022-04-06
PREV> Jill Thorsten: meeting. That was an interesting experience. We had Nancy Lewis, the former adviser to Using Government, came in a couple of weeks ago to help the girls who were going to be chair about how to run through parliamentary procedure and that type of thing.
TEXT> And those girls that are going.  To be our chairs, they are going  to morrow after school for an extra night down in youth. The government will there they will get the James O'Neil training, in addition to getting an extra night in the hotel. And they usually get the schmooze with people down there as well.  We also went to Pre Ledge last month and  because they abbreviated the session because of the weather that day. They had the training for the students in terms of how to run committee meetings in the main house, which is, you know, when you're on the floor, it's pretty intimidating because the size. But,  three of our kids went up and spoke during that pre practice  and I would say hours and and a couple other kids from a couple other schools were like the only kids who went and spoke. And so I was really proud that our kids went up multiple times to speak. And they were, you know, newbies to this. Some of them had done it online last year  is about Gleason had never done it before, but Olivia Churchill and Elias Boyington and Isabel all went up and spoke on behalf of bills,  and against bills when we were practicing.
NEXT> Jill Thorsten: And they they really made me proud. And they're doing our school proud down there. Other than that, I gave a packet with some pictures and stuff for you guys,

[12315-231] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven' before this v | 2022-04-06
PREV> Jill Thorsten: proud down there. Other than that, I gave a packet with some pictures and stuff for you guys, and it does have the Covid outline and what they want us to do. So we're all set to go. This Friday, unless you have any questions.
TEXT> I'd like to make a motion to approve the Youth in government trip.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Second, any further discussion? All those in favor opposed? All right. Good job. Thank you very much.

[12315-260] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Bonnie Miles: All right.
TEXT> So I'm wondering this is for all grades. So I had the opportunity to to talk to a young man the other day who,  essentially is should be in school and is not. And so I'm wondering, I don't see anywhere in the planning for recapture of those kids that we've lost.  I think that, if memory serves, we saw  numbers of 570 or so at the high school, and I'm assuming it may be similar at the middle school, but I think those numbers are down to around 500 or 5, ten or something. So there are a lot of missing kids out there that disappeared during Covid. So I don't see any.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You you don't believe believe me. That's the summary. So in the, in in the bins in the other document, I gave the whole board netter online, some of the

[12315-294] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Joshua: Academic center.
TEXT> Yeah, that's that's what I mean. So the academic center is, is for every student. Every student can cycle through that. We're not talking just that's not a special ed type of thing. It's not just a social, emotional thing. You can make up work as you need it.  And that is the intervention we also hope to, to drill down and have  we have a  few types. This is at the high school but also at the middle school.  The concept in alternative programing credit recovery is to try to encapsulate in chunk your your recovery as you're not progressing almost in a, you know, so that that's a piece that that's the one that's a big focus of the one time money. We just haven't had time in people to do that. We also know that we're burning out our own  teachers using they're doing the classroom. They're doing everything. We also feel by having others come in and focus on those elements, that will be a strong, strong piece.
NEXT> Joshua: But we can't put 900 students in one academic.

[12315-308] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sorry you had said that the most at risk kids, that's why I.
TEXT> Yeah, but but all the kids can go through it as well. And the kids, I got to be honest with you and I let  let the principal speak about it. The majority of our students right now are not functioning at the way they were just a couple of years ago. So that's why it's all hands. That's why it's so aggressive in approach. But,  I wouldn't want a ballpark that I would. I would honestly say it's 30 or 40%.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's my question I have.

[12315-351] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: So can.
TEXT> I just add something that I think will help people to maybe understand a little bit better and alleviate some of the tension around sustainability for this? One thing that we haven't mentioned tonight is the work that's that's also in the Esser funds for building the capacity at the elementary level around things like social emotional learning,  responsive classroom  building, teacher capacity. And so if you think about it in terms of as we kind of transition back to, to whatever will now pass as normal in the world, and as the kids age up through the system, we're looking at elementary students who, with a better foundational skills, will need some of these supports that you're seeing here will not need those as much. Right. So that  that's where some of that attrition comes into play. That is the students,  are better prepared as we close those gaps. And again, keep in mind, federal funding for Esser is specifically for learning loss. So it's not meant to to be sustainable. It's just this really lovely gift of money to be able to say, how can we work on closing those gaps?
NEXT> Unidentified: And the most logical way to do that? We spent a lot of time tonight talking about the high school, in the middle school, and what will need to happen

[12315-361] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, you.
TEXT> Patrick. Adrian Ward one.  So I guess my question is, who are the kids that we're talking about? Because I  don't know. You know, I,  I'm a father of a middle school student, and I'm a, you know, former teacher, and. We have kids right now  that are we talking about the the kids that, don't aren't showing up to classes?  The kids that that one, you know, the 1 or 2 kids that,  you know, might be in every grade level who are.  So they're just they're struggling so much that they are just distraught, disruptive in their classes. I guess I'm trying to understand what the kids are, because I think understanding who the kids are  does start speaking to how are these kids, I mean, or are these kids or we just need to get back academically on track and then they're going to go back in and problem solved. Because I it I think it is important to kind of find out is can this be a one year program. But I'm still trying to understand who the kids are  and is are the teachers and the administrators on the same page?  With this idea  about when they think about what kids need, this,  I guess those are important questions to ask.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Patrick. My answer do you would be all kids. If you're saying that your kids are affected negatively by the kids that are having behavior issues, if those kids would

[12315-362] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Patrick Adrian: one year program. But I'm still trying to understand who the kids are and is are the teachers and the administrators on the same page? With this idea about when they think about what kids need, this, I guess those are important questions to ask.
TEXT> Patrick. My answer do you would be all kids. If you're saying that your kids are affected negatively by the kids that are having behavior issues, if those kids would be having issues, are getting help. Your kids are now getting the attention that they need. So it's it's targeted more towards that. Those kids that are failing and those kids that are struggling. But your kids, my kids, all kids are going to be affected if if the kids that are struggling are getting some now positive, attention from people and getting back to where they need to be. So I mean, to me the answer is yes. There are some targeted population that need this more, but to me, all kids are going to benefit from this, right?
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And I wasn't questioning the benefit. I just wanted to kind of get that understanding, because I think we're talking about the sustainability of it versus the, you know, is

[12315-363] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter, Ward 1, former Claremont School Board member (self-I | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: some now positive, attention from people and getting back to where they need to be. So I mean, to me the answer is yes. There are some targeted population that need this more, but to me, all kids are going to benefit from this, right?
TEXT> And I wasn't questioning the benefit. I just wanted to kind of get that understanding, because I think we're talking about the sustainability of it versus the, you know, is it something that can be kind of phased out or not? I guess I'm trying to understand that, but I think a big part of that ends up being who are the kids are going to be kind of going there because some of the kids,  yeah, it's hard to it's hard to say whether you could just how long it kind of really will take them to kind of get back on track. And then these might be kids that even though that things got worse because of the pandemic, these kids existed before.  And does this program then disappear? You know, based on the funding? I mean, I guess that's the thing is it become a long is it a long term need? Is it feasible to say that we can make it as a short term  solution to kind of get kids back on track and then let it kind of phase out? I don't know, I just but knowing what the population would be using, it becomes a big deal because you don't want to yank, you don't want to yank a program like that. If there are kids who need it and may need it longer term, it should it needs to be there. So that's.
NEXT> Unidentified: A.

[12315-366] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member, newly elected March 2022 (chair: 'I hav | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: I have Bonnie, then Josh, and then Stephen.
TEXT> So I'm thinking about on the financial end. I think this is great that we can help these kids, but there are other essay use that they're getting this money and what what are their questions. They must have the same concerns after a couple of years. What are we going to do. So maybe a good idea to speak with other superintendents and just bounce some ideas off each other? What are you going to do in a couple of years? But I think, I think we do need to give these kids the help. But maybe that might answer the question for down the road.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12315-377] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Steven' before this v | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: It's Stephen.
TEXT> I'm kind of looking at this at where my big concern is, is there's a large amount of money being invested by the federal government. Well that's fantastic, but I'm looking at the return on the investment. I'm kind of looking at this like a two year CD where I have an expectation. And what is the administrative team who put a lot of work into this plan? What is the expected return on investment for touching all the kids that we've lost in getting these kids up to par? Are we looking at we're going to gain back 90% of where we've lost? Are we looking at gaining 100%? But I want a realistic expectation because if we're expecting somewhere below 50%, it's probably the wrong plan because we should be shooting much higher to get these kids back on track. So I'm kind of curious as to what the the modeling has shown for the return on this investment.
NEXT> Unidentified: I would say we're looking not only to get back to where we were pre-COVID. I, I would say we're looking to be much better. It's the $6 million Man

[12315-378] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Steven Horsky: because if we're expecting somewhere below 50%, it's probably the wrong plan because we should be shooting much higher to get these kids back on track. So I'm kind of curious as to what the the modeling has shown for the return on this investment.
TEXT> I would say we're looking not only to get back to where we were pre-COVID. I, I  would say we're looking to be much better. It's the $6 million Man approach, right? You can build it better. And I think that's what we're looking at. We have an opportunity from a curriculum standpoint to put into place things that have not existed here for years, and to be able to give a structure and a wrap to the academic outcomes that haven't happened for a long time. We don't want to just get back to where we were prior to to March 13th, 2020. We want to excel. We want to to to be able to to make sure that the graduation rates are  dropping, that our kids are performing on the SATs and the SATs at a higher rate than they ever were, that, you know, simple things. Right? So the Science Advisory Board, we don't have formalized science curriculum in our elementary schools. And just being able to make that happen in September and implement something with fidelity to build teacher capacity so that kids can begin to articulate scientific questions and begin logic and reasoning at those early ages. That's going to make a huge difference by the time they get to middle school.
NEXT> Unidentified: That that already sets the stage for academic success. So to to kind of answer that, Steve, I'm not expecting a 50% increase. I really want 100% increase. And I

[12315-379] Unidentified | Unidentified - SAU 6 curriculum administrator (curriculum newsletter,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: happen in September and implement something with fidelity to build teacher capacity so that kids can begin to articulate scientific questions and begin logic and reasoning at those early ages. That's going to make a huge difference by the time they get to middle school.
TEXT> That that already sets the stage for academic success. So to to kind of answer that, Steve,  I'm not expecting a 50%  increase. I  really want 100% increase. And I don't mean that in a way that's flippant or  unrealistic. I just mean we we have  the bar has not been that high and we have an opportunity, if God willing, we can find the bodies. And that's the greatest challenge. That is our greatest challenge. And it's a challenge everywhere.  I'm teaching this semester. I'm at the high school teaching English. I have a counterpart who is a few towns over. She's teaching fourth grade on top of doing her job as assistant superintendent. That is the way  of the nation right now. So bodies are going to be our greatest. It's that human capital that's our greatest challenge here and everywhere else.  So it's it's that the lovely gift of money  is, is perhaps  not matching up with the bodies. But, you know, that speaks to the recruitment and retention of teachers and building that teacher capacity so that our teachers walk, into the building with skills that they feel supported, that they feel empowered in their ability to to approach the the students and meet the needs of the students. So, you know, I,  I think that's that's our greatest challenge is finding the bodies.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Having a public and then Whitney. And I think we're getting ready to move on from this topic.

[12315-382] Norm Blue | Public commenter, Ward 3 (continues directly from his self-ID [409-410 | 2022-04-06
PREV> Norm Blue: kid, and the kid gets the blame for being the problem and so forth and so on. And that will never get answered. Even when they're up on their 50s, they'll still always look back and say, Mom and dad caused my problem, you know?
TEXT> So  it's a problem and you've got to catch it early in the stage of the student.  When you start seeing that problem developing, that's when you've got to get a hold of them and try to change their whole mind as to what life is like, how you're going to do that. I haven't seen anybody yet come up with a good answer as far as  what you're going to do. You can sit down and bring the classes together and get somebody like Derek Furlan from up here at the county home and show them the other side of the coin, and hopefully it might change their attitude. But there's that's a tough subject to get into.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[12315-384] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member, newly elected March 2022 (second cluste | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.
TEXT> Can I respond to his comment?  Sir, I, I agree with the spirit of. Everything you said, and,  I, I want to say this to kind of like, relieve some of your concern because I agree with what you're talking about, especially when, when we're thinking about the environment that these kids come from when they enter the school. And unfortunately, in our reality, the school itself, the staff, this ministration the school board can't necessarily intervene on the social and economic environment that the children come from, but we have an opportunity to make sure that they can fulfill their potential at the school. And I in my opinion, based on what I've heard about this program, that's what that's what this is intended for, in that we understand that there are many children in our community come to the like, enter the school house and facing a lot of challenges at home and outside of school. And the idea, my understanding of this program is to basically help us help them overcome the challenge that we can't solve for them.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: We can't solve their social or economic problems, but we can help them overcome the barriers that those create for them in the classroom through these enrichment programs, through these

[12315-385] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member, newly elected March 2022 (roll 'Whitney | 2022-04-06
PREV> Whitney Skillen: community come to the like, enter the school house and facing a lot of challenges at home and outside of school. And the idea, my understanding of this program is to basically help us help them overcome the challenge that we can't solve for them.
TEXT> We can't solve their social or economic problems, but we can help them overcome the barriers that those create for them in the classroom through these enrichment programs, through these academic centers. And from what I understand about the program, that's kind of the ideas that we we allow.  We create a form and an opportunity to empower students who may be struggling just at school and don't have struggles at home. Or maybe they are struggling at school because they're struggling at home, but we can still help them at school so that when they finish their schooling, they have done everything they've given their all they've they've met their potential, and we've given our all into them. And I mean, unfortunately, that's just kind of how it is. Like we can't intervene on the larger social and economic challenges these children face. And the idea for this program is to do what we can to help them face those challenges and cope with them.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Something very quick, Mike, I promise.

[12315-390] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: It is. Okay.
TEXT> Yeah, that's that's our intention to put that in the local budget. So that's sustainable after this. So that we we have that  with particular focus on the CTE growing that, getting that pipeline in. So we always have the kids  being exposed exploratory. The success Alex has had just with camps we should we're confident that's going to bring the numbers up. The expectation of okay.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And my my last question, I just had one more question because I mentioned what Mr. Narrow said in that strategy that I asked you guys to put together. Could

[12315-394] Candace Crawford | Public commenter, Ward 2 (self-ID 'Candace Crawford, Ward two' [85], ' | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay. Candy.
TEXT> Thank you very much. Candy. Crawford, Ward two. Just 3 or 4 disparate comments.  When you talk about  retention of staff, question is do you do any exit interviews? I know those are timely. They take a lot of time. But even an applicant, a survey,  that they turn in before they get their last paycheck that that says why you're leaving the district. And I think that would be helpful going forward. Just so to give you some information  that you can use in in recruitment. Sure.  Second question  is, I see that you have a million for for  summer programs, and I am hoping that a decent chunk in there is  some efforts to recruit kids to come to summer school. I mean, my understanding is that it's very difficult to get kids to come to summer school because people think who need summer school, even though the kids love it when they get there. But I think that there's significant money needs to be put into maybe knocking on doors and getting kids,  signed up for summer school because I think that's that's very important. Third thing is, I really agree  with Miss Whitney's comment that $100,000 for visioning. Believe me, I'm all for the visioning committee. I'm very supportive, but I don't think $100,000 is needed. But that's just my opinion.  So  I guess that's it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you, thank you.

[12315-416] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: For.
TEXT> Directly to the students.
NEXT> Unidentified: The scholarships.

[12315-418] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair, elected this meeting ('Congratulations,  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Unidentified: The scholarships.
TEXT> That go to the students.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's right.

[12315-438] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [98-341];  | 2022-04-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because that's normally where those scholarships are coming in.
TEXT> So and not to  so the vote two is to replenish and it will still go to the students whether we have the banquet or not or how  we do that. I do know that that was it was discussed and I can revisit that because of,  you know, Covid and the parade and people not wanting to come back. I don't know specifically how they're going to do that. Some things have been altered, but I can follow up on that for the next meeting.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Any other? Seeing? None. All in favor?

[12315-571] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member, outgoing Chair (new chair thanks 'Frank | 2022-04-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: Gary, if you could move to the hall. If you. Thank you.
TEXT> And what I would like to see. And we attempted to see this before, but we really didn't get the data that we wanted to, at a retreat is, What? I'm what I had asked for, and I don't want to ask you in a lateral, so want to make sure that the rest of the board is in agreement with what? What I would like to see. And I'm talking about four different groups of kids. I'm talking about kids that are first, second, third, fourth grade that are identified and unidentified, that did not attend the preschool. I want to know how they're doing on some standardized testing. I also want to know how identified and unidentified first, second, third, fourth grade kids that were in the preschool are performing, and I'd like to see the trends on by the time they get to fourth grade. How much of a difference is there between the kids that were at the preschool and those who were not?  That's that that's what I would like to see.  I floated that to Mike to give him a heads up, and the other anticipating Mike was going to be chair and Heather was going to be vice chair. And you've indicated maybe sometime in May.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, I believe so, Ben. Ben has already worked on a lot of that data from the last time. And I, I think we're we're confident on that. Right, Ben.

[12366-18] Stephanie Hurst | Incoming SAU 6 literacy specialist from 7/1/2022 (onset of her remarks | 2022-05-04
PREV> Dr. Janeiro: running in the most prepared possible way for us on July 1st. So we're excited about her enthusiasm for the position. And, Stephanie, if you wanted to just say a few words, we invite you to introduce yourself. And right up at the microphone, please.
TEXT> I'm very pleased and honored to be. Offered the position as Literacy specialist for SA six.  I'm eager to get to work, roll my sleeves up and work along with the teachers to get the work done. I'm encouraged by the passion of the teachers, the staff, the children. I was able to work in the summer camp,  last summer, and I just have a heart and a passion for these students, and I'm eager to serve the community. So thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Welcome. Thank you.

[12366-24] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and in one of the the people that is targeted for that, that has interviewed for the position is a person we had on board who is associated with the tech. So it's it's all looking good for that. So we're in a positive place.
TEXT> There are high school again parallel situation.  We we copied this because there has been a lot of success with the campus aids, the disciplinary discipline  monitors and the like.  So they were already in the budget, so they were existing. You don't see them. And again, I tried to put the funds in there and we can talk about that in the totals,  but they are not in there, as the guidance counselor was, not because those are in the regular adopted budget that we have  the academic center. Again, this is this is a center that is going to piggyback off of the existing art art program, where we had one  former teacher in there who does amazing work already, and we're trying to push in  the same core academic class, science, math in English, so that we have support for the students and also so that we can grow in that, that you see the backslash there. For the alternative program, we already have all the elements of an alternative program similar to what we had before. Incoming principal Pratt has a lot of ideas of of restorative justice and a few other things to have these folks  trained in, and it's very exciting.  But the  the other elements of of any alternative program, how you try to intercede before there's it's a terminal situation with students, meaning that they've, they've failed to many semesters or portions of that they're losing credit.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: What we're trying to do. Also with these people who are going to be in the academic center is to have them working with staff or even hiring other people

[12366-48] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report and ESSER  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah. So that's why I'm questioning that. And are the deficits in the speech and in requiring codas and speech pathologist how are we linking that to Covid, the lack of access within the district or.
TEXT> Well, so we do have we have our fair share of identified students who are on, plans where they have it, and we have a fair amount of staff for that. But I think what was presented is there are a lot of things that we're seeing, particularly in the earliest levels in kindergarten and things like that, where particularly some of these students  who that we could push in and that we would have  not only would we have the speech in, in, in the groups and the tiered interventions,  together. And we would break that up. That's why there are six positions, three schools, and we rotate the teams in and out to, to have that right in the, in the schedule. But the but the interventions themselves to are of an academic  nature  in that, that is  that's how we set it. I don't know if we want to talk about how put Principal Lewis on the spot she's up.
NEXT> Unidentified: With or these.

[12366-71] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: So currently so changing that model, we would evaluate every student that comes through.
TEXT> Potentially the other piece of of it being part of a  a normal aspect of a kindergarten classroom, for example, would be that, you know, 30 minutes, maybe one time a week. I'm throwing out arbitrary times and numbers of, of,  lessons. That person could come in and provide some general skill in that area. And then those kids who struggle with that would kind of surface very quickly and could be then identified for some more intense services.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So if we're going to determine whether or not these programs are successful, how do we create a model or an evaluation process to track these kids over the next

[12366-72] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: out arbitrary times and numbers of, of, lessons. That person could come in and provide some general skill in that area. And then those kids who struggle with that would kind of surface very quickly and could be then identified for some more intense services.
TEXT> So if we're going to determine whether or not these programs are successful, how do we  create a model or an evaluation process to track these kids over the next two years to see if those interventions will drive us to actually maintain these four additional positions?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I can tell you part of the kindergarten screening process. For example, every incoming kindergartner meets with a classroom teacher, certified teacher with an occupational therapist or assistant, and speech

[12366-80] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Frank Sprague: 'similar to what Whitney | 2022-05-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: of those kiddos that that we saw deficits in kindergarten screenings then went on to become identified through special education. We certainly would have that, you know, with some back work. But this would this would be you're exactly right. This would be very different.
TEXT> Okay. But it's good that we do have that, that screening data from historical screening data. So just trying to build together an analysis plan, we could look at the historical screening data, implement this program and then look at the kids are screened. Get the quick intervention. And how many of those end up to be identified as needing special.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: We did pilot a version of this many, many years ago. And what we and again, we did exactly what we're talking about now, with the exception of we're trying

[12366-81] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (superintendent: 'put Principal L | 2022-05-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: So just trying to build together an analysis plan, we could look at the historical screening data, implement this program and then look at the kids are screened. Get the quick intervention. And how many of those end up to be identified as needing special.
TEXT> We did pilot a version of this many, many years ago.  And what we and again, we did exactly what we're talking about now,  with the exception of we're trying to even  reach even more kiddos that potentially have that concern.  And so at dishonored, we had small group support for those identified on their screenings with needs in occupational therapy and speech language, and we were able to do some response to intervention. And then we were able we came back to the board and showed how many of those students that received that intervention then went on to identification or did not. And we saw good success with it. It doesn't mean every child is not going to get to the need of a special ed valve, but if we can prevent as many as possible because they get the need when they need it immediately. And we also know left untreated, those those things lead to bigger concerns for kiddos, particularly  speech and language in the area of reading. So if there's an if there's an area we want to intervene on right away in terms of improving our reading as reading results, it would be intervening with speech and language earlier.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[12366-157] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (Frank Sprague: 'piggyback on what H | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: So one.
TEXT> More and this is just and then I promise I won't say anything else.  Just to kind of pull into the we spoke about and retreat and Josh can probably chime in here is  one of my concerns was that our pears aren't where they where they could be. And,  that our pairs could be a lot more effective if they, were able to get the certification and training that would support them supporting our students more effectively. And I'll just chime in again that I would I'm hoping that we can put more money into our permanent staff to kind of get them where they need to be, and they're going to be around hopefully forever, or at least those positions will be. And if we increase certain standards that we can improve our academic achievement.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Any further comments? Questions? All right. Seeing none, I'm going to move on to the Claremont Early Childhood Center. Mr. Nester.

[12366-159] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Any further comments? Questions? All right. Seeing none, I'm going to move on to the Claremont Early Childhood Center. Mr. Nester.
TEXT> Was I supposed to prepare something? I think I'll just stay seated for this one because of the. Right. So, I'll just run through this. I won't spend a great deal of time on every single slide, because we see a general trend all the way through. If you've already looked at materials, but please feel free to jump in at any point with questions. And. And let's go here. Also, there's a, there's an appendix that's in your packet there with some reading materials. If you if you so choose that's, that's fairly lengthy. And again we can get into that to, to the extent that you know that the board would like so So,  at the request of the board, this is something we've talked about for a while now. We wanted to look at look at our pre-K program and use standardized test scores. And in this case, I ready to determine if students that attended the pre-K program outperform those that don't attend. And so for the sake of this, what I, you know, described here as a quasi research study, or a quasi experimental research design,  I refer to pre-K students or the early childhood students as attenders and those that did not attend, we call them non attenders.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So we we looked at it or I looked at it, in two, two forms. One, I looked at students that went through, a childhood and then, and then went

[12366-166] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: You.
TEXT> Know, I got it. And I'm a school psychologist by trade initially. So I can answer some of these. So I've been out of the field for a little while. So there is a standard error of measurement for every score that a child earns. And maybe it's a range of ten. So if let's say I'm let's say I'm Whitney Skilling and I are the 363 on a test on the reading test, you know that you could be five points on the high end or five points on the low. And that's sort of their statistical analysis of what what they would they could confidently say you fall within that range at some point. You know, I, I don't have the,  statistical intellect to explain averages and whether or not there's a legitimate statistical relevance here.  What I did do as a sort of a, as a lay in this case was just considering that there's a standard error of measurement for every child, and we have all of the child, you know, all the kiddos scores factored in here in average. I sort of made sort of a perhaps a faulty assumption that it all came out in the wash, if that makes sense.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12366-203] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: At.
TEXT> When you're looking at data like this, depending on the students that were there that year. Because we do have a very transient population, right. It's going to change year to year. And we're only looking at a very small four years. It's really a stretch to call this longitudinal, but it's the best we could we could pull  oh here's so here's your total for students have gone through pre-K program overall not in tenders of outperformed our tenders in both areas. But total math and reading included. You can see fairly so this is the next way we looked at it, the 1617 group. And we looked at them as first graders and then as third graders because 1920 was not administered.  You see the same exact trend for all groups special Ed teased out. And then,  yeah, same trend all along. I'm not going to go through each one.  I will, I will say before we get into the discussion, part of this is that the  this is something that we know about our students, but our math scores tend to be lower than.
NEXT> Unidentified: Our readings, of course.

[12366-205] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Our readings, of course.
TEXT> Across the board. And that's consistent. And you can see the red bar is lower than the blue bar in every single cohort we pulled. So that's certainly information for our assistant superintendent as she takes care of our curriculum instruction. So the interpretation right.  We can say with certainty based on these results that overall, students that attended our early childhood program performed poorer on the spring assessment. And those that did that did not attend. So this is a very interesting thing, right? Perhaps you would have thought the opposite. Right. We gave child educational programing, exposure to a language rich environment, you know, regular meals,  things of that nature. So this is, you know, great pause. Certainly. So  just a couple of my thoughts here. This doesn't show that we close the gap entirely, which is a term we often use in education. You know, we these kiddos certainly went through and had programing, exposure to academic structures, routines. Again, language rich environments  and other things. So,  you know, they, they, they got some good programing and even if, even if you were to say the programing was was mediocre at best, you know, I think we can say with certainty that it didn't harm our students, right, that it's not the variable that caused the low performance, if that makes sense. Right.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So, so as I looked into this to try to make sense of the the data that was collected, I did find that our early childhood students do tend to

[12366-206] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: if, even if you were to say the programing was was mediocre at best, you know, I think we can say with certainty that it didn't harm our students, right, that it's not the variable that caused the low performance, if that makes sense. Right.
TEXT> So, so as I looked into this to try to make sense of the  the data that was collected, I did find that our early childhood students do tend to be more impoverished than our and our students. District wide. Our district wide free and reduced lunch numbers are 30 34.8% on average, whereas our early childhood students are 47.5% free and reduced lunch. And  while  while that's interesting, that's not the most interesting part to me.  You know, if you were to look at, say, Disney  Spring reduced lunch numbers, it's very similar. It's right around 47% last I look. So it's very similar. But I think the distinction this is what jumped out at me is that 42.8% of the students in pre-K qualified for free and reduced lunch under what they call direct certification, meaning they automatically in the state system by way of food stamps or section, you know, subsidized housing or things of that nature. Which, which puts them below the, below the poverty line. So there does seem to be an inordinate amount of, students that attend our pre-K that that do fall below the poverty line based on those, you know, just on those figures.  And then, you know, just just to point it out, if folks aren't already aware, there's a well known positive correlation between poverty and academic performance, right?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12366-218] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (Heather Whitney: 'Ben, is a ques | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> Right. So if 50% of our students in the pre-K program are special ed, does that correlate positively? Right. Or does that correlate to that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And then that.

[12366-241] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member (Frank Sprague: 'similar to what Whitney | 2022-05-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Currently we have about four students, or we do have four students that you would, you know, describe as severely disabled and require one on one support for, you know, for safety or feeding reasons. And, you know, just being able to navigate the environment.
TEXT> Does that mean that there's only three pairs available for the rest of the student population.
NEXT> Ben Nester: In theory, but in application. Right. If if one of the one on ones student is in a safe place in their wheelchair, whatever the situation may be, they're also

[12366-323] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board member (Nester: 'Frank' [501] after [493-498];  | 2022-05-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Okay.
TEXT> Okay. I have a couple.  One is I'm going to push back at you on the poverty piece.  Because of the 36 kids that are in Head Start and those that's very low income to qualify for that significantly. I think it's something like 16 or 18,000 a year or something like that. It's very low income. So there's 36 of those kids are out there. So I think that kind of pushes back at the poverty being something.  So just if you could just tell everybody watching. Then again, what is the purpose of this program?
NEXT> Ben Nester: The purpose of the program.

[12366-385] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: plants a seed a little bit, but there's so many variables. I mean, the average, major change in college is 3 to 4, right? Something. So somebody heads down a field and then they take a class and they're like, wow, this is really great.
TEXT> Of the CTE students, the survey, the highlights were that students  are not sure what they're good at. And so we're not sure what that really means. Right.  Is that because they're not they don't feel comfortable in the classes or  they're still learning in that process. So you're talking about 10th, 11th and 12th graders. Half the respondents did not identify a career area of interest. And these are students that are in our programs. So what kind of transferable skills will be out there for them from what they get from us? And then,  most respondents do not have a good idea of what it takes to be successful. So taking some of that data into consideration, and I think Mr. Tempesta helped us with this. We got a career counselor, and the career counselor is in the high school, and they are working with students, doing presentations, working in the middle school and coming to the tech center, working with our students, either resume preparation, talking about careers.  You know, when I go to her and I said, tell me what you know, based on the students that you work with, what is the number one thing they want to do?
NEXT> Alex Herzog: She said police and military, those are the two that she saw the most. Kids say they had an interest in going into reasons to speculate why. Who knows at

[12366-387] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: to work through on those issues, and maybe those things we can change. So what other health science kind of programs can we think of here? And I've been working with Mr. Tempesta to see what what we can do in regards to those areas.
TEXT> One of the recommendations to deepen the core academic integration. One of the things we created was a tech English class. We used some Perkins funds to hire a teacher to kind of create that curriculum. The class hasn't been really taken off by the students yet. It's we had it designed for juniors or seniors, mostly for seniors to take that English. The Take English course would focus on understanding manuals, looking at industry magazines,  perhaps writing work orders, writing responses to incidents they may have inquired, things that they would actually use if they left here and needed to go to work. These are things that we talk about or I talk about with employers all the time, and the community when I connect with them. What do you need? What are you looking for today? I met with preferred building systems. Those were my questions to them as we walked around and got a tour.  What kind of employees? And we actually have a student that's going to be starting there  this summer. So that's a that's a good thing. We are connecting with our employers, and we are getting our students that have some skill that may want to go out.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: The, the we talked about night classes. We do offer some adult ed night classes. The last one we offered was a carpentry construction, and we just didn't have a

[12366-388] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: of employees? And we actually have a student that's going to be starting there this summer. So that's a that's a good thing. We are connecting with our employers, and we are getting our students that have some skill that may want to go out.
TEXT> The, the we talked about night classes. We do offer some adult ed night classes. The last one we offered was a carpentry construction, and we just didn't have a very good number with that. Working with Sullivan County, they were able to get a USDA grant,  I think it was $25,000 for each our center and Newport. And we want to offer these evening classes. So we've already offered a plumbing one, which  out of nine students, three of them got hired into the plumbing field.  Some of the students that showed up for that course wanted to just learn more about how their house works and what things they can do for service, so they didn't feel like they got taken advantage of. Now these were free to the community. We use TPI staffing to kind of vet folks. One of the other programs was our machinist program. We had Scott Polk come in. I had Doug Morton do the plumbing one.  The hardest thing is trying to get an instructor that's qualified during the day to also teach at night. And and  that is a different game. When I talked about getting the eighth grades in, we have some great ideas finding a qualified instructor that can teach it.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Just because I can operate a drone doesn't mean I can pass the background check and I can get a license as a teacher. So those are the things that

[12366-389] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: is trying to get an instructor that's qualified during the day to also teach at night. And and that is a different game. When I talked about getting the eighth grades in, we have some great ideas finding a qualified instructor that can teach it.
TEXT> Just because I can operate a drone doesn't mean I can pass the background check and I can get a license as a teacher. So those are the things that we have as obstacles, and that's something we're talking about. And then brought in work based learning opportunities. This is something that's  the state would like us to see do more. We have some challenges. Companies don't want our students unless they're 18  and our students are 1617. We get some that are 18 their their senior year, and they may be off to college, but we are looking for opportunities where we can  get them to do work based learning in the  industry that they may be learning their trade in. So there is that challenge. And then of course, with Covid, we weren't actually a lot of the companies closed down and we weren't able to get into them. So that that provided another challenge. So we just took a step back. The state does look at our labs as work based learning opportunities, because  in plumbing and machine these are places where they this is if they had to go fix a toilet.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: This is their experience and that's what they do there. One of the things we got feedback from our program advisory committees and talking to plumbers in the community. It's

[12366-390] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: So that that provided another challenge. So we just took a step back. The state does look at our labs as work based learning opportunities, because in plumbing and machine these are places where they this is if they had to go fix a toilet.
TEXT> This is their experience and that's what they do there.  One of the things we got feedback from our program advisory committees and talking to plumbers in the community. It's not always about installing the toilet, it's about fixing it. Right. There's a lot more repair in the community and a lot more repair work.  We had  Bonnie. It was in today. Thank you for visiting our tech center. Bonnie was talking to our carpentry students about what kind of careers other than going into one of our students is going to  pay, read Solier. He wants to be a computer engineer, great craftsman. So it'll be interesting to see how he transferred skills over. And another is going to be going on to Keene State looking at maybe working for their maintenance facilities down their transferable skills. But as Bonnie attested, hey, we need handymen or handy women or handy tradespeople that can go in and fix things, especially if we're looking at real estate and there's a deal on the table, but we need  stairs and we need handrails, things like that. And there's a lot of work in this community for students in that area. One of the interesting things from the suggestions for new programs, and this is something we've vetted with the  superintendent, a teacher preparation program was one of the highest ones that we saw  people were talking about.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We used to have the early childhood Ed program, but because it wasn't deemed a livable wage, they moved that to a teacher multi-level program. And with that, interesting. So

[12366-411] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: 16 credits. I need 20 credits to get my my New Hampshire diploma. I want to pick up four credits. We coordinate with you to take classes on Pluto. It's called Odyssey where? And they take classes and we monitor them as they go along.
TEXT> The high set is the one we're most active with. Those are students that come in and don't have enough credits. They're not going to get the 20, but they may have the capability of passing the high school equivalency tests, which, let me say publicly, is no joke. It's a pretty tough test.  Luckily, we've had a couple. We've had one inmate at the jail pass it this year. We've had 3 or 4, from our program that were ready to take it. We've seen one student walk in, says, I'm done with high school, takes the pretest which is required, did great on it and went right to the test. So it didn't really. And then if for those students that need training, we have classes twice a week, one in English and one in math.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I, I have information that says we haven't expended any of the the grant allocation money that was given to us and that the grant closes in June of

[12366-432] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: So which is a good thing.
TEXT> And then summer camps where we are planning that that's going to be launched. The,  the registration on Monday the ninth. And we've already kind of set that up so that we can send out our emails on it. We are looking at five programs this summer. It's a one week that we're doing it, and it's  for middle school students only. So any students going into sixth, seventh or eighth grade can take these programs.  Culinary is back. Robotics. And that's going to be Mr. Pope's going to help. One of our students that graduate is currently going to Clarkson.  We're looking at  getting her in to kind of spearhead that. She's getting her engineering degree at Clarkson. So I thought that would be a great fit for us. Annika is doing a career, one which will take students to different industries in the area. Last year they did 1 or 2 per day and it was very successful.  The school bus will take them around.  Carpentry, of course, where they're probably going to make some picnic tables and fun stuff like that. And then we're going to do a TV one.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: Josh here, with CCTV, is going to put together a week long program for kids to learn how to do TV stuff. So some good stuff. So recently I just

[12366-433] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Alex Herzog: they did 1 or 2 per day and it was very successful. The school bus will take them around. Carpentry, of course, where they're probably going to make some picnic tables and fun stuff like that. And then we're going to do a TV one.
TEXT> Josh here, with CCTV, is going to put together a week long program for kids to learn how to do TV stuff. So some good stuff. So recently I just wanted to share quickly. We had Epic Food Truck. This is Teacher Appreciation Week. So they came out and we did some,   haggling.  Mike Hammond came out and worked, gave out breakfast to all our students and to our teachers. And  that was on Tuesday morning. It was quite a nice event.  We did have the eighth graders come over into CMS. I tried not to. I couldn't really put a lot of pictures out about it because I have to get permission, because there could be a student that I did want his picture in it. So I'm just sharing that quickly with y'all. There's Nika right there, and she we showed the videos that we did last year, and if you haven't seen them, they're on CCTV. We tried to do them on our display boards, but they don't always work on it and they freeze everything up.  But we showed each of the videos. And really the big response  by students is that culinary program, people are really digging that  our students.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So when we asked, okay, so what's your favorite program? The students were going around. It was culinary, culinary, culinary. I want to cook. So what's great is that we

[12366-436] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (chair: 'Mr. He | 2022-05-04
PREV> Unidentified: I would say here, is that it? Oh.
TEXT> So last night I don't know if you all I don't know if I saw anybody there, but last night  Maple Avenue had title one. Night and so I luckily my wife's a title one teacher, so I got roped into it, but it was a good opportunity. And so here I am working with young people. We had tape measures out, we had blocks and they had to measure the blocks. And surprisingly, I think I shared with you before some of our challenges in the plumbing with  Mr. Belanger is that students aren't understanding fractions. I mean, it's fourth and fifth grade math here. They are in 10th and 11th grade and they forgotten it. So we have Math Mondays. We're challenging. Them. To think,  surprisingly, this young lady picked it up real quick  and that this one was 4.5in the smaller one. Everyone was a whole number. I wanted to see if they picked that one up quickly. Then I made them do the half number and see where they were at at.
NEXT> Unidentified: With it.

[12366-461] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 (presents the FY23 general | 2022-05-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: it also. So I have gone through each one of them. Three weeks ago, I probably could have told you what each one of the federal laws and the A's were. I, I'm sure I'm not going to be able to do that again tonight.
TEXT> It's all of the items that we are able to comply with. It's all of the items that we believe we're capable of complying with in order to get these federal dollars, but it's to bring it here tonight for the board to have had a chance to see it for a board, have had a chance and ask questions on it. And,  if appropriate, for the board chair to sign on behalf of the board and for the superintendent to sign as the superintendent and the primary person who's responsible for compliance with all of the concerns and laws?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Yes.

[12366-520] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (leads pledge and runs the meeting [1-20] | 2022-05-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: years ago. So this year we're behind on this year because we're still resolving ones in the past. To be sure, we don't leave any cash behind against records that we have from those years, some of them perfect and some of them less perfect.
TEXT> So so I guess comes to the question of the general assurances for FY 2023.  I need to know if the board wants me to and sign on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes. I'd like to make.

[12399-22] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: To the lady okay.
TEXT> Any further citizens comments at this time? Seeing none I'm going to close citizens comments. We're on to the student representative report. We have we currently have a new student rep. Our our former student rep.  Just couldn't fulfill the role anymore.  Just a little history. Hannah was selected as student rep, Hannah as my daughter. But it has nothing to do with me being on the school board. We reached out to the superintendent asking to fill to get that role filled so we could have a student rep here at our meetings who in turn reached out to Mr. Pratt.  Mr. Pratt, my understanding is went to the student council. Got some, I think three candidates that were able to do it and willing to do it. And from there, some of the staff administration,  decided and chose and selected one person. And that person was Hannah. So welcome, Hannah. Can you have a portrait prepared for us?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[12399-28] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1], answers  | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Any questions for our student rep? Seeing none under the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right. So my thunder there candy. So that's the first. The first item I had and you can see from the side is a follow up. But some of

[12399-37] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Stephen.' [442] and ' | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Sure, sure. Yeah. Good suggestion, I think we'll. We can also have summaries in kind of minutes of, of, of deliverables to talk about that.
TEXT> Could we get rough numbers of the percentages of the student bodies from each school that attended?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, yeah.

[12399-51] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: that, best friends all through elementary and middle school. Something happened the freshman year. It got to the point where almost every single day I had to deal with these two students. So myself and the council had a restorative meeting lasted about an hour.
TEXT> At the end of the meeting, they asked us if we could step out. I looked in, they were hugging. So it's there is that piece that we don't want them to be 20 years down the road, go back to a to a class reunion and not like each other and don't even remember why. So this has given them those opportunities. This is more what the approach is and what it gives sense of belonging, safety and most importantly, it gives a voice to the situation. It makes it a learning experience. And that's important for the students as well as the the staff. We recognize every student is having something important to contribute to the success of the class and the resolution of a conflict. And right now we're missing that it's their school. They should have a say. They should play a large role in regards to how things things are handled. And this is just  some of, you know, the multi-tiered systems of support. So this is where when we get into the restorative approach here before it even gets going all the way to the top. So a lot of you have seen this same kind of pyramid approach. We have the the red, the the green, the yellow and the red, the response to interventions. This is kind of the same thing, only it's the restorative approach in what it looks like because they all kind of fit together.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And these are the five we call them magic questions that we ask at every time we're trying to restore what happened, whether we're trying to restore relationships, we're trying

[12399-55] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: bugs, because every school is a little different in regards to how we go about this, once we work that out, then we go backwards and work with the middle school, because so many times it's the middle school first and the high school second.
TEXT> So this time we're trying just to back it up and go high school, middle school. And I've even done it incorporated at elementary schools, which is, you know,  but it has to be that backwards by design because then middle schools can go and work with elementary schools. It forms those relationships. So when they get to those different grade levels, they're already familiar with some of the students because they work with them in their own school. So  I'll leave it up to the board of the night. You want to to watch this?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah, sure. What's happening? For you? I want to catch up to Jack and have a bit of a chat to remember what was happening out there. And what do

[12399-60] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: last thing, and this is something that some kids like to do, and they shake hands as a way of being able to move forward together. That's something that you guys want to do. Yeah. Come on. Shake hands. All right. Fantastic. Good job guys.
TEXT> To war. And we actually did it one way at one time in Brattleboro. We had over 200 people in the school. Because there was something that happens in school that affected the community, and it was allowed for everyone to have a voice and healed. And that's why training is important. And that's part of the the plan is because it's not about the adult showing how upset he is or they are. It's about creating relationship with the students that they feel comfortable enough to share and respond. And so, you know that just just an idea of, you know, what I'm hoping to do at  Stevens High School. It's been very successful over the years. You know, there are different things you put in place also to keep kids engaged. One of the things that, you know,  myself, I came up with, along with my colleague who's still in Brattleboro, is that we said, well, how do we get kids to want to participate in the restorative peace because it's uncomfortable. And what options do they have? And what we came up with is that we use the, the, the,  the model of obedience, meaning? Look, you don't have to do it. We'd like you to do it, however, and the kids do sometimes, like, I don't want to do it, but once you throw this out to the parents, like, oh no, you're doing it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's like, for instance, a kid, you know, you still have the typical discipline. You know, you got in a fight. It's 5 to 10 days. You get suspended. However

[12399-71] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Steven Horsky: How do we make it? Because I can't see where you could put a kid who's struggling in school into the panel. And I'm just thinking several different aspects of the whole thing, because you're going to lose common learning if they're participating in this.
TEXT> Yeah. Usually this is something that's done. We can do it during flex time. In some of those cases, sometimes we can do it after school. But I've used it with high schools as large as 5000 students and the student panels are made up. These are one of these cases where you don't want to talk to former students on the panel. You might want one just to add their perspective from their side. But most of the time you want people who have been there situation you want because and that's important to sometimes that's a result. I've had students who that was their resolution. They ceremony student family from someone who's victimized someone else. It's a learning spirit. And we're giving these kids an opportunity to take a leadership role. Unless you've walked in the shoes, it's really tough to come up with those ideas. So do we get bogged down? No, because it's not as many students as you think in regards we have. Plus we we try to train enough students where it's not the same panel that we're over again. We were evolving the panels and so it doesn't it's not a constant revolving thing.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: When I was doing it with in Boston with about 5000 students, I think we average maybe three a week. But it wasn't the same panel we had. It's a

[12399-81] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: So you promised to bring us some data on how it's going. Well, yeah.
TEXT> I'm a big data person. When I did it in the first year we did it. We had 450 days of out-of-school suspension and then I had to be served. Yeah, that increased our that. So we had kids who were staying in school and therefore our dropout rate went down. It didn't go down significantly, but it went down enough that we could see 1 or 2 kids each year were staying engaged because they took on a leadership role on the panel, or they were, or they're being recognized more positive in the school with the positive recognition they felt like. Because every time they turn around, these kids who drop out, they feel like they just be beat down one more time. We need to give them time to feel what it's like to be successful. Sometimes we get to loosen the you get a loosen at least a little bit and let them mess up and let them also feel what it's like to be successful, because if we don't know, we're going to feel it, never going to want it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So it's it does change, really. It takes about at least three years to change the culture and building the trust of the students. And they know that this is

[12399-82] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (superintendent: 'I hand it off | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: we get to loosen the you get a loosen at least a little bit and let them mess up and let them also feel what it's like to be successful, because if we don't know, we're going to feel it, never going to want it.
TEXT> So it's it does change, really. It takes about at least three years to change the culture and building the trust of the students. And they know that this is an environment that's based on recognizing kids positive and helping you when you fall down and not kicking you when you're down. Because a lot of times, discipline in schools, especially at the high school level, oh, you young adults, this you did this. You should have known better in some cases. Like do they really know better? I compare it to, you know, kids go through schools and they fail test. Well, you should have studied we're assuming they know how to study. And it's kind of the same thing we have. We can't make assumptions anymore, especially now with everything that's going on in the laps. In education culture, we really have to take people swimming what is going on in our schools with the kids and just come right out and ask them and allow them to make mistakes and pick them up, brush them off, hit reset and do it all over again, and hopefully they'll learn the lessons around the way. So when they do leave school, then making good decisions.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So I've got a question and I'll So kind of a two part question you talked about, I'm hearing you say probably roll this out next year. So you talked

[12399-86] Chris Pratt | Incoming Stevens High School principal (second cluster: answers the ch | 2022-05-18
PREV> Michael Petrin: And how long before that trickles into the middle school?
TEXT> That's something I have a conversation with Frank. It all depends on how successful it is at the high school. You know, I never like to work backwards until we've worked all the bugs out and the kids feel totally comfortable, and it's kind of trained to the trainer kind of. So I would say, you know, at least another year, I think, before it trickles down to the, to the middle school. Unless it's but I would leave that totally up to the middle school administration. Okay. I know we've talked about it in there on board. It's just going to take time.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I've got Whitney and then Steven.

[12399-90] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (chair recognizes 'Stephen.' [442] and ' | 2022-05-18
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah, because then we can work with the school counselors, the administration, social workers. We can still process with them how it made them feel and still ask a lot of the same questions. So we know, what they're still struggling with. Okay. Yeah.
TEXT> I pardon me, I can say from firsthand experience,  actually, the first time I met Mr. Brad was dealing with a, with a issue that would fall into one of these little charts. And fortunately and, well, unfortunately, at the same token, my student was the victim.  Handled it very professionally. But you can see where this program that he's trying to implement came into play in the way he dealt with the reentry of my student. I'm pretty pretty darn supportive of this program.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Thank you.

[12399-98] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Mr. smol has queued up first.
TEXT> So my presentation is focused. In on. How. We approach family involvement this year and  as well as a little bit of student learning. Sort of a year in review. We had many events. It really averaged out to about once every month we had something going on for families or students.  At the beginning of the year, you know, we had to face the Covid challenge. So  we did that and sort of made sure we,  accommodated our events in a way that was Covid friendly. So open house, we had a family math night called math or Treating Thanksgiving feast, a winter enrichment, a kindness challenge, a book swap, walk your child to class, and most recently,  down in the Bluff Farm Family Literacy Night, which was title one sponsored. So to begin the year off,  we had our open house  virtual. So I have a video here that shows sort of a tour of our school so families could watch this online and see the faces of their classroom. Teachers see the classrooms.  And they also came out to the playground, and we had tents set up so they could actually physically meet the teacher and sign up for their virtual parent teacher conference. So, good statistic with that, as we had at 71% of our families sign up for the conferences. So it was a really great turnout.
NEXT> Baker: So the video here, it's about a two minute video. I'm not going to play the whole thing, but if you wanted to see how it rolled out, it was

[12399-99] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: tents set up so they could actually physically meet the teacher and sign up for their virtual parent teacher conference. So, good statistic with that, as we had at 71% of our families sign up for the conferences. So it was a really great turnout.
TEXT> So the video here,  it's about a two minute video. I'm not going to play the whole thing,  but if you wanted to see how it rolled out, it was published on the website. It's our school that they could watch  virtually. Here just to kind of a few snapshots of them signing up for conferences, enjoying their ice cream. And we move into October with our math or treating family night.  Students were invited to wear the Halloween costumes to school, and we have math activities and games set up around our school yard. They had a passport that they visited to each station, and at the end they were able to, get a treat for a kind of like a trick or treat kind of thing. And all the kids got a free pumpkin to take home that was donated by a local farm. So you can see our  bluff pumpkin patch students and costumes and one of our math,  examples.  We didn't break it down by students, but  at count we had 180 people attend this event. Wow.
NEXT> Baker: Moving on to November. We got families involved through their donations. We had a school on Thanksgiving feast, so each grade level had a an item to donate. And then

[12399-103] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: driving through with their family, we have the music playing staff are welcoming and greeting all students as they walk in. We have main entrance and the side entrance. It's just really a great way to set the tone for the end of the week.
TEXT> You know, some of those kids got some good dance moves and the families are smiling as they walk through. So that's that's our  dance party Friday. That's right. A couple months ago. And then lastly, this is probably our biggest event of the year. Down on the farm, down on the bluff farm, which is the family literacy night. We had literacy activities. We had a storyteller. We had lots and lots of farm animals that went along the activities associated with the farm animals.  We had a book block. A book fair was going during that time so they could purchase books for their children. Every student was able to take home a literacy kit with a free book, a bookmark, a farm animal,  leading up to the event,  I challenged them to read 60,000 minutes in a month, and if they did, I would kiss a pig. More to come on that at the at the event. And then also we have a,  Everybody Wins is a program that we work with, and they also donated a book for each student. So they're walking away with building a nice  library for a home. Oh, and just we had  250 people come. 64% of our students were in attendance, which I think was, pretty, pretty good success.
NEXT> Baker: Just want to take a minute. I'm not going to read everybody, but one great thing about this event is that we had a huge community involvement, so we had

[12399-104] Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (presents Bluff's year [245-285]; H | 2022-05-18
PREV> Baker: with, and they also donated a book for each student. So they're walking away with building a nice library for a home. Oh, and just we had 250 people come. 64% of our students were in attendance, which I think was, pretty, pretty good success.
TEXT> Just want to take a minute. I'm not going to read everybody, but  one great thing about this event is that we had a huge community involvement, so we had lots of donations from local businesses.  Between food materials for the event, we had the police and the fire department there. The police donated the meat and cooked for us,  a bunch of local farms for H. So that's our list. So they they were huge in the success of this. So again, some snapshots of the community involvement, the poster thanking everyone, the chefs going. These are some examples of some of the literacy activities  that is part of  these fabulous,  students were very engaged in a story telling and again, just the literacy activities that were associated with it. Some of the other animals that we had here, and they won their challenge. So there I am kissing the pig. And the kids were very excited by that. Yes. And I just want to kind of give a shout out to all the stuff, because they always go above and beyond to make these things happen for our kids and our families. So we have had a very successful family this year.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[12399-112] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, okay. Thank you very much.
TEXT> Good evening. Dessner is next, and I have with me tonight our student service coordinator, Nicole Boynton. And together, we want to share  what the year Disney has looked like. And so our theme this year was all around together we All shine. Really recognizing that we needed to take this year to kind of regroup, re-energize and reengage with each other. So that was the focus. How do we reconnect with  even each other as staff members? We had some staff members doing remote instruction or reconnect with families who maybe had chosen homeschooling or remote instruction and really reset as a school. And what does it mean to work as a school? So does not pride.  We are all about Disney pride, and everything we do relates back to that and then resetting those expectations of be safety, respectful and be responsible. It took some time to get kiddos to what that looks like and sounds like and most importantly, feels like. So first and foremost, we do refer to ourselves as the desired family and families have traditions. And we had to think, just as  Principal Baker spoke, we had to think about how to maintain some of those traditions, but in a different way, as well as add some new things.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: First day of school. We start off as a family every year, and so we had to be mindful of how we could do that given some Covid protocols. So

[12399-113] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: refer to ourselves as the desired family and families have traditions. And we had to think, just as Principal Baker spoke, we had to think about how to maintain some of those traditions, but in a different way, as well as add some new things.
TEXT> First day of school.  We start off as a family every year, and so we had to be mindful of how we could do that given some Covid protocols. So we still gathered on the playground so families could at least say hello to teachers.  Students have their parents there as they make that first connection with their teacher, and then we would come in together,  open house. We'll talk about in just a minute. We actually did two versions. You'll only get to see one. And I'll tell you why. It's not a good excuse, but I have an excuse for that.  We did have several family events, and then it was also really important for us to connect to the greater Disney community. And how did we start to pull in some of those community,  members that we had been support, that had been supportive of us, and how did we get them with our kiddos? And this is one of those. So  you will find no greater joy than the month of October and Fire Prevention Month. So really serious topic. But the kids know the firemen come and so  they come. For our kindergarten first and second graders there is a coloring contest. This is the most beloved prize I think you can offer an elementary student.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And that is if you win, you get a ride to school in a fire truck with your family. And so that and you pull in the front circle of

[12399-114] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: and Fire Prevention Month. So really serious topic. But the kids know the firemen come and so they come. For our kindergarten first and second graders there is a coloring contest. This is the most beloved prize I think you can offer an elementary student.
TEXT> And that is if you win, you get a ride to school in a fire truck with your family. And so that  and you pull in the front circle of Disney in a fire truck, there is no greater way to arrive. And then you see Sully, Sully brings a lot of joy to Disney.  You know, as many people have said far more eloquently than I'm going to say right now,  the social emotional well-being of students, staff and families. We've been incredibly sensitive, sensitive to that this year. I don't know if you've had the privilege of meeting Sully. Sully brings joy wherever Sully goes.  And so he's been an integral part of of reactivating our kids to school and dealing with some tough situations. We also wanted to reconnect with our families. And we we are sensitive to the different dynamics that our families  face. And so we have our Tiger Times, which is our weekly newsletter that goes on to our on our new and improved website,  as well as  out through School Messenger to all families. Many of our teachers have embraced Class Dojo and use Class Dojo on a regular basis. Phenomenal way for parents to get real time information in the moment.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: A great math lesson that just went on. Teachers taking pictures of kids engaged in that learning. Post them to their dojo. Parents are seeing right during that child's math

[12399-115] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (presents 'Dessner' (Disnard) [28 | 2022-05-18
PREV> Melissa Lewis: our on our new and improved website, as well as out through School Messenger to all families. Many of our teachers have embraced Class Dojo and use Class Dojo on a regular basis. Phenomenal way for parents to get real time information in the moment.
TEXT> A great math lesson that just went on. Teachers taking pictures of kids engaged in that learning. Post them to their dojo. Parents are seeing right during that child's math time what they're engaged in. So there's no better alert to get on your phone than what your child is up to during the day.  And we try to keep our Facebook going with lots of  fun information about what it looks like and sounds like to be at Disney. The big thing is, we said to all of our community members and all of our family members, first and foremost, we're here for you. So we're there for you families. We're therefore you students. We're therefore you  community members. And so we took a look at student needs in several different ways. Academically, you're all aware of the challenge that we face academically with some of our students, given the the  upheaval, let's say, of the last couple of years, socially, we're seeing kids face some challenges that they have not faced previously.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And so we really needed to increase the amount of social support that we're providing to students. Goes right along with some of the emotional supports that they need. And

