[16322-73] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-02-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford and then miss Miles. So I'm looking at this matrix and.
TEXT> I'm seeing,  for example, just to understand,  student achievement data.  And the owner of it is the Claremont School District, meaning they own the data and they will present to the school board for distribution. Right. Is that right?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It is.

[16351-2] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair (members' roll-call responses captured at segment o | 2025-02-19
PREV> Unidentified: Here.
TEXT> Here. Here. Our first order of business is the approval of the items on the consent agenda. Those items are  approval of the board agenda and the approval of the minutes from February 5th, 2025. If there is no objection, I would like to approve the agenda items as written and  approve the 20,  the two, five, 25 minutes. So any objections? Seeing none.  Next item of business is opening the floor to non-agenda items. Citizens comments.  Public comments are an opportunity for the public to provide input to the board. Board members are without the authority to answer spontaneously on behalf of the board. Board response, if any, will be deferring pending a full board consideration. Any individual wishing to speak, please come to the podium. State your name for the record, and we  allow each speaker three minutes. Is there anyone who would like to come to the.
NEXT> Unidentified: All great, by the way, tonight.

[16351-7] Joseph | Public commenter (first name only, as announced; surname not stated) | 2025-02-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> My name is Joseph and I'm a resident here in Claremont.  I'm also concerned  about what has been happening recently regarding the teacher that was,  fired recently. And  I really have some questions about what the school knew, what the superintendent knew going into that.  Because the reports by the New Hampshire Journal make it pretty clear that the, the town police had informed the school that they were still investigating the the matter with the teacher,  and she was reinstated. So I'm very concerned that, I don't know if it was lack of staffing that  was a priority over student safety, but it's something was the ball was dropped somewhere.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[16351-10] Kyle Mercier | Public commenter (as announced; not on public roster) | 2025-02-19
PREV> Unidentified: Sure.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is. Kyle Mercier. I thank. You for this opportunity to speak with you. I'm a long time member of the community and a concerned citizen. I'm here tonight to speak about the proposed construction and demolition facility located near Maple Avenue School. That will affect our children and our taxes. Both of these topics are near and dear to the school board and to the school community. I want to first thank you for the school leaders for moving the date of the school safety meeting, which I'm sure is very important so that not to conflict with the upcoming public meeting with the state. They would not move the date. It signals an awareness of the importance of this topic. The what? Acuity is an out-of-state company that wants to expand the recycling permit into a major construction and demolition facility. They have already been told no twice by Clermont. Now acuity is appealing. There are decision by going to the state, circumventing local control. We need your help in stopping out-of-state interests. The why? Because acuity proposal would bring 70 trucks a day carrying materials such as lead, asbestos and mercury over our roads, by our schools and through our neighborhoods, exposing us to poisonous substances.
NEXT> Kyle Mercier: 70 trucks a day, over 312 million pounds of imported toxic waste would be brought to their site near 400 homes and the Maple Avenue Elementary School. Acuity believes that

[16351-15] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter (name not stated on recording) (onset of remarks capt | 2025-02-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: For your time. Thank you. Is there anyone else? I would like to make a public comment. Thank you. Seeing no one approach you. Oh. I'm sorry.
TEXT> Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to come for the school board. First of all, commend you for the work you've been doing. It's hard work. It goes many times unrecognized. I want to take this opportunity to recognize the hard work you've been doing as a school board. The budget for transparency is phenomenal. At the same time, I consider myself with how this activity being proposed by an out-of-state interest will impact our students here in Claremont and the impact it's going to have, not just on the schools, but also the taxpayers. Fundamentally, there are many trucks. Is going to cause a real problem with the roads, which are problematic to begin with, but more importantly than anything else. I say this with all of you. The real concern I have is the safety of our students. Think of these large trucks going down Bradstreet past Stevens. I think in the past, we were cited by the organization about noise at Stevens, which is why we had to do what we had to do. These trucks are not going to be any less noisy than they were in the past.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: After go by Stevens, they're going to buy in the middle school. After the middle school. They're going to buy Maple Leaf. The safety of students is my fundamental concern

[16351-16] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter (name not stated on recording; speaks in opposition t | 2025-02-19
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: past Stevens. I think in the past, we were cited by the organization about noise at Stevens, which is why we had to do what we had to do. These trucks are not going to be any less noisy than they were in the past.
TEXT> After go by Stevens, they're going to buy in the middle school. After the middle school. They're going to buy Maple Leaf. The safety of students is my fundamental concern tonight, and I want to be sure that the school board is well aware of what's happening to protect our students. We have problems today at the middle school, at the crosswalks. This is going to be aggravating it. So therefore I'm bringing it to your attention. Let you know what's happening. And hopefully somewhere along the way the school board may take a position to oppose it. That's my recommendation to you folks tonight is think about it, discuss it, and come up with some sort of comment. The Department of Environmental Services at the state level, what this means to the Crown of Claremont into our students specifically. So thank you, chair.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.

[16351-18] Charlene Lovett | Public commenter; former Mayor of Claremont (uncertain — likely self-i | 2025-02-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I say a few words. Charlene Lovett. So just to. Remind everybody here back in 2018, 2017, I think it was this community, the school board, the city council,  major stakeholders in the community all made the prevention of lead poisoning a community wide priority. And for that, this school district was leading the state in policies that said children should be tested. And we we let the state in so many ways. In fact, we were recognized multiple times for our work. The fact that they're bringing in out of state construction demolition material, we know, because New England has the highest rate  of homes with lead based paint. We know that this material will be toxic. And if you remember when we had all of the briefings back in the day in 2018, 2017, it doesn't take much to poison a child. So there is a correlation. It's been well studied. There's articles about it of a 40% correlation between children that have been poisoned by lead with special education needs. This impacts our community and so on, so many levels, whether it's our health which we should be concerned with, our environment,  our infrastructure. But most importantly, if we do not protect our kids from being poisoned by lead, we rob them of the opportunity to reach their maximum potential.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: It's lead poisoning. You don't see it when it happens. It's not like mustard gas. It's not like sarin gas. But it happens. And when it happens is irreversible. And

[16371-4] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-05
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Can I say it now? Yes. The results of the 2021 of water that the woman received in. Our packet is FY 20.
TEXT> Okay, I like me. Then we'll accept that modification. To the agenda to read results of Fiscal year 2020 audits and update on 22 and 23. Yes, 2122 a lot of process. Is there any other amendments or changes to the agenda?  Consent agenda is approved. Next. Moving on to citizens comments. We will now open the floor to non-agenda items citizens comments per policy BEDH. Is there anyone present wishing to speak this evening on a non agenda item? Okay. Seeing none,  we're going to move to our student board members report.  Miss Sheehan and Mr. Mitchell Sheehan and miss Lily Clark. Hi. Hello.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: We're going to start off with talking a little bit about sports and.

[16371-10] Miles Sheehan | Student Board Member, Stevens High School | 2025-03-05
PREV> Lily Clark: would love to shout out Noelle Bhushan for what she said. It was very well written in the very back part of what we gave when she posted it on what the Claremont and all of us from Stephens like. It was very well said.
TEXT> Yeah. So we won't read you all of those  because that would take a long time. But I will read you. I will read you mind because I didn't post it anywhere, and then Lily will read you hers, and that would do it for us. So on the afternoon of the 11th, I was in the iMac lab when the lockdown went into place. I like many of the kids in that class. We all just thought it was a drill or fake, and we didn't really think anything of it until we saw the police pull into the front and, like, sprint to their trucks to put on their vests in. There are their ballistic shields.  Many students had seen the police come into their classrooms or like, heard them run through the halls. I could see through, like a tiny rip in the paper taped over the closet, window, the police sprinting up and down the hallways with their rifles in hand. I heard the stomping in the radios, and I had my classmates crying. And at that point, I figured it out that it was a real thing.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: I and kids in the room that I was in were, were crying on their phones or joking around or just silent, kind of just, like, accepting. I would say

[16371-20] Miles Sheehan | Student Board Member, Stevens High School | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: The day after. Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> It was it was good to have them their day after is to make it like that. Much like, I mean, those kids were gone, so it was already safe. But like just to make it that much safer.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Feeling like a law enforcement hug. Yeah. Yeah.

[16371-23] Lily Clark | Student Board Member, Stevens High School | 2025-03-05
PREV> Miles Sheehan: not. It just kind of happened. It was not enough time to, I guess. Yeah. But it was the thing that comforted me. And a lot of the other kids I talked to the most was the response time. And the fact that it took.
TEXT> I think like the scariest and nerve wracking part about all of it was the fact that all of us, like I walked past all of those kids right before the class. Yeah.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: Yeah.

[16371-27] Lily Clark | Student Board Member, Stevens High School | 2025-03-05
PREV> Miles Sheehan: Yeah. And just like the running, just the sounds like the stomping and the radios and the. That was probably the scariest part.
TEXT> One of the kids got detained right outside my classroom door. We heard everything. We heard them get down on the ground, a bunch of stuff. And it was really nerve wracking hearing a bunch of people running up and down the hallway. One of the kids, I don't know who it was because obviously we couldn't see, but, they were constantly knocking on our door and then running away and then knocking progressively louder. And then all we hear is running down the hallway and then get on the ground. So.
NEXT> Miles Sheehan: But, like I said, having the police in school the next day and, you know, thinking about the response time and then having the, I know there was actually counselors

[16371-49] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 (sentence continuation; cluster flap) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Unidentified: You got to.
TEXT> First, I want everyone to say. We're so proud. I'm so proud of you guys. You know, not just the superintendent,  former principal. And in knowing that we do these drills, you guys stepped up as the most one of the most difficult situations you could be in as your delts, in the building, in the district. We couldn't be more proud of all of the students that day, and we realize how difficult it was. But you're right. You guys all came together, and I think the greater community has to see how great the students are in that building, spite of what happened, because I, you know, some of us, we've seen it all a lot. You know, we know you guys as adults it and anger us that this happens. It was me that, you know, people have to be, so insensitive on social media, but that's what you get. But the responses that were were gave, it was students putting adults in their place. And, you know, that's that's how I've always seen them with the majority of the students at the high school. And, and you guys are so am I surprise. No. Am I proud? Absolutely. But my question is, is that moving forward, is there anything that you feel the two of you or the conversations that you have that we could do to make Stephen's high school safer from in the hallways or classrooms or anything like that?
NEXT> Lily Clark: I mean, Doctor Harrington did put in a in place that if you wander the hallway, you're immediately sent home for the night because not only is it a safety

[16371-187] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-05
PREV> Unidentified: Bye now. Bye bye.
TEXT> Do so much apologize for the delay.  You get it? I know you get it. Next on our agenda is youth risk behavior survey data presentation.
NEXT> Scott Blewitt: Hey, everybody. Down around. I have some youth camp trifles being passed around.

[16371-188] Scott Blewitt | YouthCAN Prevention Coordinator, West Central Behavioral Health (arriv | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do so much apologize for the delay. You get it? I know you get it. Next on our agenda is youth risk behavior survey data presentation.
TEXT> Hey, everybody. Down around. I have some youth camp trifles being passed around.
NEXT> Unidentified: Are you sure?

[16371-217] Scott Blewitt | YouthCAN Prevention Coordinator, West Central Behavioral Health | 2025-03-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Including those? Yeah.  So a little bit about you can, we are a division of West Central Behavioral Health where a DFC grant.  We have a budget of $125,000 a year.  Specifically for Newport and Claremont, the Can is an acronym for Claremont and Newport. So when these other fine folks talk, they're probably going to talk about greater Sullivan County. I'm only talking about Newport and Claremont for my role. Yep.  So  I won't go over the details of what you can is because you have a wonderful flier in front of you, and I don't want to take too much of your time.  I want to jump right into what the U. S is. It's a survey that's completed by nine through 12th graders. It allows us to  determine how often behaviors occur, analyze trends, and monitor progress. This information can lead to planning and programs that support youth health. So there's a lot to analyze within  the survey.  I'm just going to pick a couple of them and I'm going to start with alcohol use  alcohol use. And this is 2023, 15.8% of Stevens ninth through 12th graders, had an alcoholic drink at least one day during the last 30 days.
NEXT> Scott Blewitt: As you can see, that is much less than the great of Sullivan County and much less than the state. So that is wonderful news. And I want to deep

[16371-220] Scott Blewitt | YouthCAN Prevention Coordinator, West Central Behavioral Health | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: I don't know, not. Not the actual survey.
TEXT> Okay, then I  brought it up on the screen, because that is wonderful news. Because back in 2013, 32.9% of the students had alcohol within 30 days. So if you look at the, you know, every other year, the numbers have decreased.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[16371-248] Scott Blewitt | YouthCAN Prevention Coordinator, West Central Behavioral Health (uncer | 2025-03-05
PREV> Hannah Brooks: that up. I actually brought a handout that I can show you. Pass it around, created by the Vermont Department of Health. And it talks about all the edit checks and things that go into the wire and why it is reliable, if that helps.
TEXT> Yeah, I'm just pulling in here for the next time. Now there is one more statistic that concerns me the most. There's a lot in here that is concerning or not concerning as much as educational.  But this one concerns me the most. This is about perception. The percentage students who recall hearing, reading or seeing a public message about avoiding alcohol or other illegal drugs during the past 12 months,  and currently, it is 47.8% of the students recall seeing something which is a little bit less than half. And you might think that's pretty good. But if you look ten years ago or even 2015, it was 73%. So to me, that means that I need to do a better job working with partners to get the message out there of either don't use or. Here are the resources. When I go into the schools or the community, I. I see all over the place that the various hope signs. So the the nine, eight, eight and that's wonderful and I appreciate you putting those up,  but maybe I or we need to do the same thing regarding drugs and alcohol.  Yes, sir.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: My suspicion is that kids are getting their information differently now than they were ten. Years ago.

[16371-257] Jennifer Gallagher | Prevention Educator, Turning Points Network (YRBS presenter) (taking o | 2025-03-05
PREV> Scott Blewitt: So you'll see me back again. But now I want to turn it over to Jen Gallagher.
TEXT> Thank you. Scott. Sorry for my squeaky shoes. Hi, everybody. It's so nice to see you all again. I feel like. A little celebrity, getting leave to, It's just so good to see your faces again. So thank you for having us. As you may remember, Turning Points Network serves all of Sullivan County, and we help folks with relationship abuse. So if people are experiencing stalking, sex trafficking, sexual harassment, sexual abuse, domestic violence, intimate partner violence, bullying, right? We do all of that.  And both Carrie and I are educators, and we get to go into the schools and talk to young people about how to build those healthy relationships so that hopefully they can recognize warning signs when or if they are  in an abusive relationship. So February just ended. February is Teen Dating Violence Awareness month. We had a great response from Stevens High School. We actually tabled at lunch and one of our student groups helped run the table. So that was really fun.  And we'll talk a little bit about the student groups in a minute. I'm not sure. Okay. I was like, I don't know how Scott's laptop works. So we really looked we tried to stay similar to the questions that we reviewed in 2021.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: However, a couple of the questions that we examined in 2021 were actually not asked in 2023, so they don't match up. So if you're like, oh, well, this data

[16371-260] Jennifer Gallagher | Prevention Educator, Turning Points Network (YRBS presenter) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: months. Stephens actually performed better than both the region and the state in this category. And I found it really encouraging that students are recognizing these patterns of control so they're able to pinpoint this type of behavior as something undesirable and or potentially harmful.
TEXT> And then, interestingly enough, this the survey asked this year the percent of students who purposely tried to control  or emotionally hurt a dating partner. And it gave examples like telling them who they could or couldn't spend time with. Humiliating. Humiliating your partner in front of others or using threats. Here, Stephens performed better than the state,  but less well than the region overall. So  about 10% of students reported trying to use these types of behaviors on a dating partner,  which is not a great number, but it's not a super high number. Either. And then Scott and I actually recently were trained in teen mental health first aid. We started a program at the tech where we have seen groups of students and how they can improve mental health of their peers by knowing the warning signs of a mental health crisis and how to get help. So very similar to regular first aid, where your job is not to diagnose or heal an individual. Your job is to provide help and support until a professional arrives. Very similar thing. So we did look at mental health and support. And I wanted to just shout out that, 56.6% of Stephens students felt that they never or rarely got the help that they needed when they felt sad,  empty, hopeless, angry, or anxious. So that speaks volumes to how our students are feeling in school and in their lives.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: So, I know you all appreciate mental health support, and you've been working really hard for counseling for our students, and it's very clear that they need it. They did

[16371-261] Jennifer Gallagher | Prevention Educator, Turning Points Network (YRBS presenter) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: just shout out that, 56.6% of Stephens students felt that they never or rarely got the help that they needed when they felt sad, empty, hopeless, angry, or anxious. So that speaks volumes to how our students are feeling in school and in their lives.
TEXT> So, I know you all appreciate mental health support, and you've been working really hard for counseling for our students, and it's very clear that they need it. They did perform not quite as well as the state or the region in that category either. So just some fun tidbits. Any questions about my data points? I know I zoomed super fast. Miss Crawford.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yeah. Just remind me that this survey is given to all Stephens High School students.

[16371-263] Jennifer Gallagher | Prevention Educator, Turning Points Network (YRBS presenter) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah. Just remind me that this survey is given to all Stephens High School students.
TEXT> Yes, it's all students throughout the state, actually, throughout the country. Right. It's the youth risk. So it's nine through 12th graders everywhere.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So everyone gets it. And what was the response rate?

[16371-272] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> All right. Well, good evening, everyone. It's nice to see you again. I'm Kerry Rochford,  and I am the shine educator at Telsey. Family Resource Center. And also a prevention educator. With. Jen at Turning Points. But I'm here tonight to talk to you about TLC Family Resource Center. And some of you may be familiar with the variety of supports that TLC provides them. Just going to give you a very brief overview and then talk a little bit more specifically about the youth programing. So as a family resource center, they're providing support to folks, families, things like workshops and skills for families around discipline and self-care and, helping young families with home visits, providing diapers. Lots of practical ways that they support young families in our community. They, as I mentioned, they do the home home visiting. They also have kinship navigating services. Right? Many of our families have other folks raising children, right. Grandparents. Aunts. Uncles. And they provide lots of supports to those families and caregivers. So that's important to know if you in the schools know families that could use those services.
NEXT> Kari Hague: Right. To know that that's available right here through TLC, those services are all free. They provide postpartum support and lactation services and new moms groups as well. Just in

[16371-273] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Kari Hague: kinship navigating services. Right? Many of our families have other folks raising children, right. Grandparents. Aunts. Uncles. And they provide lots of supports to those families and caregivers. So that's important to know if you in the schools know families that could use those services.
TEXT> Right. To know that that's available right here through TLC, those services are all free. They provide postpartum support and lactation services and new moms groups as well. Just in this last year, TLC also opened an office in Lebanon. So they serve Sullivan and Grafton counties. Also, the recovery program at TLC, which is providing individual and group support to folks who are in recovery from substance misuse  and a variety of different services that happen at TLC for folks around recovery. And they have many different groups happening throughout the week. They have their basically almost every day there are meetings happening there, which is really exciting, right? Because we know that substance misuse is  something that really, is prevalent in communities. And one of the ways that we can strengthen communities is by giving folks the support that they need as they're in recovery. So,  the Rural Outright Program is looking at supporting LGBTQ plus folks in our community and in particular LGBTQ plus youth.  And we have a couple of exciting partnerships that I'm going to highlight in just a minute about  some of the work that's being done locally to support LGBTQ plus youth who we know are at a higher risk for bullying, for substance misuse, for abuse, right, and other risk factors.
NEXT> Kari Hague: So whatever we can do as a community to help build up those youth and provide them the support that we need, is something that's really important. And then the

[16371-274] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Kari Hague: exciting partnerships that I'm going to highlight in just a minute about some of the work that's being done locally to support LGBTQ plus youth who we know are at a higher risk for bullying, for substance misuse, for abuse, right, and other risk factors.
TEXT> So whatever we can do as a community to help build up those youth and provide them the support that we need, is something that's really important. And then the Shine program is a comprehensive sexual health program for middle and high school students. And, that program is the curriculum that we use is called Get Real. What we love about this curriculum is it's a comprehensive curriculum. And so it's it's an inclusive curriculum. It's developmentally appropriate. It's medically accurate information for young people.  And we know that health teachers have so many topics that they have to cover. And what we love is the opportunity to be able to partner with health teachers and others to provide this in-depth programing for young people. As I was listening to Jen talk about the statistics, right, and the number of young people who have been forced to do something sexually that they did not want to do. One of the ways that we can impact those numbers is through prevention, right, is by reaching young people with information that is meant for them, to help them navigate these kinds of choices, because we know as educators, right, that it is developmentally appropriate and expected that young people are going to be curious about bodies as they go through puberty.
NEXT> Kari Hague: They're going to be curious about sex. Right. And what we can do as adults is help provide them with the information they need to make healthy choices. The curriculum

[16371-275] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Kari Hague: young people with information that is meant for them, to help them navigate these kinds of choices, because we know as educators, right, that it is developmentally appropriate and expected that young people are going to be curious about bodies as they go through puberty.
TEXT> They're going to be curious about sex. Right. And what we can do as  adults is help provide them with the information they need to make healthy choices. The curriculum that we use talks about how postponing or delaying sex is a healthy choice for young people,  and it's interesting when we talk to them about that. Why is that a healthy choice? They know how to answer that question. They will talk about right, preventing unintended pregnancies. They'll talk about reducing the risk of sexually transmitted infections. They also talk about the emotional impact of potentially being involved in sexual behavior before they're ready. And they'll talk about things like, you know, regret. They'll talk about things like feeling like they were used. Right. And so they're really ready to come to the table and talk with us about it in ways that we can provide them the information to help them make healthy choices. So we know what's a healthy choice for young people to delay or postpone. We know that there are also young people who are sexually active, and we want them to have the information that they need to make healthy choices.
NEXT> Kari Hague: And as part of our youth programing, we get to work with these great folks. And I would say, since we saw you last, that partnership has just gotten even

[16371-276] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Kari Hague: them make healthy choices. So we know what's a healthy choice for young people to delay or postpone. We know that there are also young people who are sexually active, and we want them to have the information that they need to make healthy choices.
TEXT> And as part of our youth programing, we get to work with these great folks. And I would say, since we saw you last, that partnership has just gotten even stronger. And I feel really optimistic about that, that we're able to do more prevention because we're just a solid team collaborating on all of that. So it's really nice to be able to come and highlight that as well. So a few statistics that we just want to share with you. This one here is looking at the percentage of students who have ever had sexual intercourse. Right. Looking at Stephens 43% compared to the region. 38 compared to the state 34. Right. So that number is higher.  And again, all the more reason that we need to be giving young people the information that they need to make healthy choices, right. And to, to promote their health. Percentage of students who have had sexual intercourse for the first time before the age of 13 years. And if you don't mind, I would just love to have you because I feel like you explain this so well. She's my data person. That just. So can you just speak to that? To to this piece?
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Yes. So, in looking at this question, the Stephens data percentage by sex was suppressed. And so what that means is that the denominator was less than 30 or the

[16371-280] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Down for people watching. At home. The legal. Age of consent in New Hampshire is 16, not 13. So any 13 year olds having sex and not legally. Consent to that.
TEXT> Right. And that's that's really important information, right. That needs to be out into the community, with families, with young people. Right.  And that certainly is part of the Shine curriculum. We actually talk about consent as well, talk about communication and negotiation with a partner. Talk about assessing risk. So some of the topics that maybe are, are, are able to go a little bit deeper than a typical health curriculum just because of the amount of time that we have to devote to this. And this one. This was encouraging. We were  we were pleased to see this and to know that, you know, we we we want it to be even higher. But this is a great this is great. So the percentage of students who verbally asked for consent the last time they had sexual contact, right. For Stephens, 88%.  The county 84, the state 77. So that's great, right? Because when we're talking about preventing sexual violence, when we're talking about preventing harm, it's people having the skills to know about what is consent. How do you ask for consent. What does consent look like. Right then it's words and body language matching right. Those are skills we need to teach young people. They're not going to just know that if we don't talk about it.
NEXT> Kari Hague: So we're really encouraged to think that because there is more intentional curriculum around consent used by both turning points and TLC, that we're seeing that positive upward trend of

[16371-283] Hannah Brooks | Greater Sullivan County Public Health Network, Dartmouth-Hitchcock (YR | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: This is great information. Thank you. Okay.
TEXT> Excellent everyone again Hannah. Brooke. She your pronouns. I work at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical center slash greater Sullivan county public health network.  And I do a lot of partnering with these folks as well. I'm going to cover just part of this slide, but a lot of this stuff I do out in our community focuses mostly on youth engagement and a lot of LGBTQ plus support in our community. Those are like my bread and butter. I love doing those things. And so instead of talking about some more data, I thought it'd be great to talk about what the data really influences. And so we talked about programing earlier and so how this data really lets us know what kind of initiatives we can do. Is anyone familiar with getting to why? Oh, of course you are, I guess. Good to see you.  So getting to why is a program that spans over two years, ideally, where  I'm working right now with Mr. Pascucci at the high school, the SAP to bring meaningful, impactful change to our. Yes data. Right now, we have a core team of about 5 or 6 students, and we meet regularly, flip flopping with PB and J time.
NEXT> Hannah Brooks: So it made it easier for staff. But we really put the data in the hands of youth and say, you're the ones that are taking this. This is also

[16371-284] Hannah Brooks | Greater Sullivan County Public Health Network, Dartmouth-Hitchcock (YR | 2025-03-05
PREV> Hannah Brooks: working right now with Mr. Pascucci at the high school, the SAP to bring meaningful, impactful change to our. Yes data. Right now, we have a core team of about 5 or 6 students, and we meet regularly, flip flopping with PB and J time.
TEXT> So it made it easier for staff.  But we really put the data in the hands of youth and say, you're the ones that are taking this. This is also yours to have. What can we do about it? It's very much a student led initiative. And so whereas I might be sitting on one side of the room thinking that something is a concern in our data, the youth might be telling me, no, actually we see this as a strength because of X, Y, and Z, and ultimately their decision is the one that we move forward with. Not my decision as an adult. So right now we actually are planning out our data analysis retreat, where we're recruiting peers around the school to talk about the data, get their ideas for causes and concerns and strengths. We don't just focus on concerns. We want to emphasize strengths to, and then from there, the core team is going to host a community dialog events. We haven't put a date for that yet, but it'll probably be late May. And I think it would mean a lot to the youth if any of you felt comfortable attending. It's open to the wider community, but those youth are going to present again and say, hey,  these are our top concerns we have. Can you help us figure out kind of ideas we can do to implement some change?
NEXT> Hannah Brooks: And then year two focuses on that project implementation. And there's that stipend that's provided for that as well. So ultimately up to the youth, they're up at the front

[16371-285] Hannah Brooks | Greater Sullivan County Public Health Network, Dartmouth-Hitchcock (YR | 2025-03-05
PREV> Hannah Brooks: of you felt comfortable attending. It's open to the wider community, but those youth are going to present again and say, hey, these are our top concerns we have. Can you help us figure out kind of ideas we can do to implement some change?
TEXT> And then year two focuses on that project implementation. And there's that stipend that's provided for that as well. So ultimately up to the youth, they're up at the front presenting everything. Incredible group of students. Like every time they meet them it warms my heart. So that's giving to why. And then I'll also talk a little bit about the LGBTQ plus connections groups and let me know if I'm missing anything. Carrie. But most recently, we partnered with TLC to create some drop in spaces for LGBTQ plus youth and allies. And Carrie and I are leading a drop in group for adults supportive adults of LGBTQ plus youth. It's a very much a new group. So, you know, reach out to either of us if you would like to be connected. We're still kind of establishing the cadence because, you know, there might be some barriers as visibility and timing of things. And we want to really make sure that we're reaching the people who need our support the most. I missing anything with that. Okay. And then in terms of community events,  we all, every every community event, we're all tabling beside each other.
NEXT> Hannah Brooks: That can be the back to school fest. That can be prescription drug take back day. That can be rural pride. And so we really try to get out in

[16371-287] Scott Blewitt | YouthCAN Prevention Coordinator, West Central Behavioral Health (clust | 2025-03-05
PREV> Hannah Brooks: be rural pride. And so we really try to get out in the community and really hear people's needs for resources and also educate each other about what's going on between our organizations. Pass it off to you to talk about mental health first aid.
TEXT> Thank you. Yeah. Regarding mental health first aid, Jen's already talked about it, so we're good there. I do want to talk about some youth action. Some initiatives. We have we have groups in both Newport and Claremont for kids after school. Prevention groups. But I do have an of you right now we have one, and it's located at TLC, which is a wonderful space, but we want to make it more convenient for kids to get to students to get to. So if there is a place at the high school or the middle school or the tech center and we can talk about, I'll call you because we don't want space time to be a barrier. When it comes to initiatives, we do, sticker shock campaign, in which we put stickers on alcohol at the stores. We also do pizza boxes. Again, just to remind kids, remind parents, that alcohol is for adults. It's not for kids. And  even  you go into the average household, you open the refrigerator. There might be alcohol or wine next to milk. So it's there. It's very common. We also work with local law enforcement to do compliance checks with alcohol retailers and restaurants to make sure that they are not serving to underage,  youth.
NEXT> Scott Blewitt: We have some partners. CJ's is a wonderful partner. We do around some of the big events, school events or holidays in town and village pizza. Those are our two

[16371-289] Jennifer Gallagher | Prevention Educator, Turning Points Network (YRBS presenter) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Scott Blewitt: handbooks, but they also do webinars. Talk. They hear you as a campaign that we, we try to push out either through email or social media. And then there is hope signs which are all over the place regarding the nine eight mental health hotline.
TEXT> We put all our initiatives at the end. So some of the things that we're working on at Turning Points Network with youth include our Healthy Relationships project. We provide healthy relationships education throughout the county, wherein all of the elementary schools, at the middle school and at Stevens High. We have a great relationship with SO6. We also have some student driven leadership projects, including PB and J. Hannah gave it a shout out. It stands for the Positive Bystander Journey. It is intended to build off of students that have been trained in bringing in the bystander, which is an evidence based bystander intervention program that teaches students how to speak up and safely intervene if they see something  harmful happening. It's a great program. We've run it a number of years at Stevens. We have a group finishing up sometime this spring. We're a little limited this year, with the advisory block being so short. That's usually the time that we had, pushed in because it's least disruptive. And the high school has, really a lot going on. Students are very busy there. So advisory was a great time block for us.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: This year has been a little challenging with the short. 30 minute window with announcements during it. So it's actually a little less than 30 minutes, but we are handling

[16371-292] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (reply at  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: So yeah, that is what what we're working on for our initiatives. Carrie, you want to talk a little more about shine?
TEXT> Sure. Yeah. Okay. So as I mentioned, shine is middle school through high school. We do also offer it to young people who are parenting up to age 21. And I mentioned that we use the Get Real curriculum, which promotes abstinence from sex as a healthy and safe choice for teens and provides a comprehensive understanding of sexual health, sexuality, and protection methods. One of the things that we love about this is, is that it is so grounded in social emotional learning skills, right? And helping young people to use those skills to make choices to promote their health. So we talk a lot about self-awareness. We talk about knowing what you want. What are your future goals? How do you take that information to help you with the decisions that you're making in your relationships? Right. And young people today, that time for self-awareness and self-reflection is really challenging because they're just bombarded with social media. And so just that time to sit with your own thoughts. They don't have that in the way that many of us did. Right. Because it's constant information  coming at them. So giving them time to self-reflect about some of these topics is really, really important.
NEXT> Kari Hague: And we love that. It's a big part of the curriculum, along with talking about responsible decision making and talking about social awareness. Right. Some of these other skills that

[16371-293] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Kari Hague: so just that time to sit with your own thoughts. They don't have that in the way that many of us did. Right. Because it's constant information coming at them. So giving them time to self-reflect about some of these topics is really, really important.
TEXT> And we love that. It's a big part of the curriculum, along with talking about responsible decision making and talking about social awareness. Right. Some of these other skills that are really important when we think about relationships. And then I just wanted to mention and Hannah talked about the connections groups, which is awesome,  and that we also offer monthly social activities for LGBTQ plus youth. And so there's been a variety of different things that have happened. There's been some journal making and there's been  they've done like some vision boards and there's going to be some yoga coming up. And those have often been held at the community center. So it's been really nice to partner and  be able to offer those for young people so that when they get out of school, they can come right over to the community center and take part in a social event. When we think about some of the risks, in particular for LGBTQ plus youth and rural LGBTQ plus youth, offering those opportunities for community  is a really important protective factor, right? And so we're excited to partner, to be able to do that, to help promote a sense of community for them, a sense of belonging. All right. And and I'm passing it off for resources. Is that you, Scott?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[16371-296] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Scott Blewitt: a chance, please to advocate for opting out, keeping that, that would be preferred because we need data to work to see how we're doing. We need to measure successes or failures. So that's my my soapbox. Thank you. Anybody have any questions? Yes, sir.
TEXT> You know, I just want to express, you know, how grateful and how lucky we are  to have, a true partner like TLC and turning points in the community, because I attribute a lot of the positive trends we're seeing just in my short time here. It's because of the work that they do with the schools. Any given time you can go in and see one of them in the schools, whether in the cafeteria or in the halls or the table, you would think that there's a team of 50 people doing what they're doing with with everything they're offering. You know, the schools, the,  the updates that Scott sends out and stuff. They we're truly lucky to have a partners of TLC in turning points in our community, especially in the times we're seeing now in the needs of our students. A lot of the stuff we we, our trends wouldn't be going in the direction they're going if we didn't have, you know,  these partners. So I just want to thank you very much.
NEXT> Scott Blewitt: Well, and just to pick you back on that, you are a great champion for our students, your administrators, for the schools. Doctor Harrington, Mr. Romeo, your saps, your social

[16371-297] Scott Blewitt | YouthCAN Prevention Coordinator, West Central Behavioral Health | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: the times we're seeing now in the needs of our students. A lot of the stuff we we, our trends wouldn't be going in the direction they're going if we didn't have, you know, these partners. So I just want to thank you very much.
TEXT> Well, and just to pick you back on that,  you are a great champion for our students, your administrators, for the schools. Doctor Harrington, Mr. Romeo, your saps, your social workers. You have a lot to be proud of in this school district. So the cliche, it takes a village. This is what it is.  And hopefully with our work, our collective work, the trends will continue to go down for the bad stuff and not for the good stuff. So thank you for having us back again.  We would love to come back as as often as you would like.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. I mean, you talk. You let us know. Okay.

[16371-299] Scott Blewitt | YouthCAN Prevention Coordinator, West Central Behavioral Health | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. I mean, you talk. You let us know. Okay.
TEXT> I do do a lot of social media posting on what's up Claremont. So if you see that or if you, if you are on Facebook and you want to like youth can or if you want to be on my bulk email list, please send me an email. I'm sending out good stuff. I try to minimize the junk. Because I know you probably get a million emails a day and I want to make it worth it.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for what you're doing.

[16371-305] Kari Hague | SHINE Educator, TLC Family Resource Center (YRBS presenter) (diarizer  | 2025-03-05
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: Some of the individuals that each organization sees might even be the same people because. Each other. Yeah. People. Correct. Yeah. And it's not really the wrong one. It's just who's who's going to be the most appropriate avenue for that individual to receive services.
TEXT> And there's oftentimes a lot of co-occurrence for our families. Right. There may be a family that's getting support at TLC around substance misuse. Right. And there's also a relationship abuse or past trauma. Right. So turning points specifically works with people around those topics Jen mentioned right around relationship abuse, sexual assault, sexual harassment, stalking, sex trafficking. Right. That's the special era focus for turning points. Right. And then TLC provides these other services for families, family support services, substance misuse recovery services, the youth programing through rural outright for LGBTQ plus youth. Right. And then the sexual education program through shine.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Right. It's like kind of like this.

[16371-318] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: We already passed five. That was a unanimous vote. What's that? Number five was already a unanimous vote. I'm sure one. Just do the, acceptance of the donation. Yes. You guys good with that? Yep. Yeah.
TEXT> So  we had a donation of $4,000 to the Salt, which stands for student Athlete Leadership Team. And. And that was what to think. Jackie, Jack and Dorothy Byrne. For that donation. Salt club is such as, trips, community service projects, the NFL flag program at Stevens High School. That athletes participate in. And this money comes in. It's such a great gift to support some of these programs in, provide even training for the student athlete team that meets with the athletic director and the coaches and talk about what it is to be an athlete. You know, how do you lead by example and stuff? You know, whether you're on the on the fields, the courts or in school. So, this is that donation I was request that we accepted on the,  that from Jack endureth you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Had to make a motion.

[16371-322] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: All in favor of accepting the donation? Say I, I motion passes to accept the donation. And once again, thanks to the Jack and Dorothy Burns Association, they do so. So much for our district. Yes they do. Moving right into Superintendent Pratt's superintendent report.
TEXT> So, as always, it's a pretty robust report that we send out monthly. So I'm not going to go through all of it. Do I do want to highlight some of it in for the public just to know basically, you know, this is something you can find online on our web page and etc. but typically the The Superintendents report provides a comprehensive update on the current state of the six addressing key issues related to budget challenges, student achievement, staff updates, and ongoing initiatives aimed at enhancements educational experience across the district. Some of the key highlights are, you know, it's previously discussed during budget season, the rising cost of education due to increased living expenses, which have impacted families in the school district. The report emphasizes the need for a budget that prioritizes resources for students and addresses immediate needs, while maintaining commitment to long term sustainability.  Human Resources HR Department has initiated the implementation of Frontline Central to enhance employee self-service capabilities. Additionally, a hiring strategy is in place to attract a larger pool of candidates and improve on the recruitment process, ensuring that the district can hire passionate educators. Curriculum and assessment. Assistant Superintendent Michael Kosky outlines mid-year testing initiatives, including winter benchmarks and interim New Hampshire S, A, s and Ella tests for grades three and five.  The report highlights preparation for advanced math cohort in fifth grade and the importance of data and informant instructional strategies.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Student Services Director of Student Services, Mr. McCosker acknowledges the dedication of faculty and staff in supporting students emotionally and academically. The report includes updates on in-school counseling services and

[16371-323] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: Superintendent Michael Kosky outlines mid-year testing initiatives, including winter benchmarks and interim New Hampshire S, A, s and Ella tests for grades three and five. The report highlights preparation for advanced math cohort in fifth grade and the importance of data and informant instructional strategies.
TEXT> Student Services Director of Student Services, Mr. McCosker acknowledges the dedication of faculty and staff in supporting students emotionally and academically. The report includes updates on in-school counseling services and the coordination of extended school year programs.  And you'll also see there each school has their own report within my report and they provide data on student attendance discipline, incidents. Recent achievements, including successful performances and upcoming events that engage the school community.  Record of School Day program. The report highlights on the success of the Restorative School Day program  at the middle school, noting increased engagement and positive outcomes for students who are been participating in that program. And we have some upcoming events. As most of you know, invited was sent out from parents where we're excited to announce that we'll be hosting a school safety forum on March 17th from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. at Stevens High School Auditorium. This forum will serve as a platform for community members to discuss safety concerns, share insight, and collaborate on initiatives aimed at enhancing the safety and well-being of our students and staff.  This forum was set up in a direct response to the lockdown gun incident we had that occurred at Stevens High School on February 11th, and we encourage all board members to attend, and community participation is important to help us.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Just have an open dialog. The this particular event will have a panel of administrators, our school SRO and the police chief there, will be presenting. I'll be presenting the

[16371-325] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: a new truancy officer. So I just want to give you an update in regards to the person that we individual that we hired. His name is Scott Maple. So I am pleased to introduce Scott Maple as the nutrition officer for our school district.
TEXT> Scott brings with him over 20 years of experience in law enforcement, having served in various capacities that demonstrate his dedication to the public safety and community engagement. Scott's career includes roles such as serving as a military police sergeant in the United States Marine Corps, where he was on his leadership and supervisor skills. He has held position as a detective sergeant within the Criminal Investigation Division and as a school Resource Officer, showcasing his commitment to the safety and well-being of students. The strong work ethic and adaptability make him an excellent fit for our district. With a proven track record in team management, public speaking, training, conflict resolution and communication. Scott as well equipped to foster a secure, supportive environment for our students and staff and his most recent position, Scott has been responsible for supervising security personnel, conducting investigations, and intern compliance with safety protocols. His experience will be invaluable as he works closely with our school community to enhance truancy issues and attendance issues, so we can continue to find ways to bring kids and keep kids at school to provide them an education. So I would like to welcome Scott Maple as our new truancy officer for the school district.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Next we have truancy officer. It's nice.

[16371-378] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. That's what I was thinking about. All right. I'm sorry.
TEXT> So next up, I is the, Stevens High School safety specialist proposal that I sent out to board members, a while ago.  And as you can imagine, this is a direct response to what we know now based on the situation that took to the high school. I know when I, when I, when I started at the high school as a principal, you know, I was surprised that, although we did have a school resource officer, I've never been in a high school or middle school with more than 300 kids that didn't have our own individual employee to overlook. The safety in the school. So I'm not going to read all of this, but I think it's important for the public to know what I'm proposing and why I'm proposing it. So it's a school claim on school board. School board. I would like to address the important topic that is on the minds of our students, parents and staff.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The safety and security of our school environment across Claremont. In light of recent events that have impacted not only Stevens High School, but schools nationwide is crucial that we

[16371-379] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: think it's important for the public to know what I'm proposing and why I'm proposing it. So it's a school claim on school board. School board. I would like to address the important topic that is on the minds of our students, parents and staff.
TEXT> The safety and security of our school environment across Claremont. In light of recent events that have impacted not only Stevens High School, but schools nationwide is crucial that we take a proactive steps  to ensure that our schools remain safe places for everyone. Establishing a full time safety specialist is not just a response to the current concerns. It is a vital preventative measure that reflects our commitment to safeguarding our students and the staff, and proposing that we start at Stevens High School with a school safety specialist. Setting the standard for safety measures that will aim to implement throughout the district someday. The safety specialists will play a pivotal role in ensuring a safe and orderly environment by monitoring hallways, entry points and common areas throughout the school day, by supervising students moving during the passing periods and lunch that help prevent potential conflicts and ensure that our school policies are upheld. The proactive position oversight is essential in maintaining a culture of respect and safety. One of the key responsibilities of the safety specialists will be conducting routine checks on school grounds, buildings, and to identify and report potential safety habits. Hazards. The vigilant approach helps mitigate risk before they escalate. Ensuring that our schools are not only safe, but also welcoming for all students and their families.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Moreover, the safety specialists will assist in implementing and reviewing our emergency preparedness and safety plans. This includes coordinating safety drills such as fire drills, lockdowns so that our students

[16371-380] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: specialists will be conducting routine checks on school grounds, buildings, and to identify and report potential safety habits. Hazards. The vigilant approach helps mitigate risk before they escalate. Ensuring that our schools are not only safe, but also welcoming for all students and their families.
TEXT> Moreover, the safety specialists will assist in implementing and reviewing our emergency preparedness and safety plans. This includes coordinating safety drills such as fire drills, lockdowns so that our students and staff are well prepared to respond to any situation. By fostering an environment of readiness, we can instill confidence in our school and community. In addition, the safety specialists will work collaboratively with our school staff, resource officer and local law enforcement to mean security protocols. This partnership is vital in creating a comprehensive safety plan that addresses the unique needs of our school environments. It's important to note that the safety specialists role extends beyond just enforcement. Building positive relationships with students is a core aspect of fostering a culture of trust and safety. By being approachable in support of the safety, specialists can encourage students to communicate concerns and seek guidance. Further enhancing our school community and sense of security. So this I'm proposing this new job description that we can use our title grants that we get annually. I've checked with grants. The money is there.  Some of these grants are set up specifically for things like this.  And so I'm asking that the the board approve this new role, although it would be someone who's in the halls at Claremont Bathrooms, be in the cafeteria helping out with in the hallways in between class time. As we all know, this last incident occurred where we like it or not.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Students, you know, these particular students were in the hallway for over 40 minutes, you know, and not by any fault of anybody. But as most of you saw, there's

[16371-386] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (speaking to her motion; corroborated by minutes) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Would you like to speak in support of your motion? Well,
TEXT> I think in light of what's going on today and what we heard these children say, we really need this. I think, you know, the funds are there and it's a big job. And it would take a load off of you and I would imagine somewhat of the principal of the high school. So it would be another set of hands out there.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's another body in the hallways. For the. School to give the kids a sense of security based on what they just went through, because it's not going away anytime

[16371-387] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Bonnie Miles: this. I think, you know, the funds are there and it's a big job. And it would take a load off of you and I would imagine somewhat of the principal of the high school. So it would be another set of hands out there.
TEXT> It's another body in the hallways. For the. School to give the kids a sense of security based on what they just went through, because it's not going away anytime soon.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: I think it's a good idea. I think I think we should have it.

[16371-391] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Under the part where their uniform and necessary safety equipment. What kind? What's included in that? What what's. What's part of the uniform and the safety. Equipment. That the safety officer.
TEXT> Will be from? Consists of a shirt? Okay, that just is. It's not a uniform, it's just a shirt. So in the past, you know, I've had, you know, the shirt that stands out in the hallway, highly visible, and it just says school safety on the back. They don't wear their equipment. Would be a radio.  Okay. And that's just it's just another resource for kids. It's it's about establishing relationships with the kids. It's another positive adult role model in there. They're not a police officer. The only thing they carry is a radio. They just insist in the daily safety of the school and making sure kids feel safe. They are safe. They're working with the administration school resource officer. There's nothing, regimented about the position. They're they're not dressed in full uniform. They don't have regalia on. They pretty much have a shirt that identifies them as someone the students can identify as if they need assistance.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Okay.

[16371-406] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: Well, he. I mean, he couldn't. Yeah. No, it's a good it's. A good it's a. Good it's a good question.
TEXT> I like the idea of having, you know, like I've said, when Crystal Seminole, like, nobody's getting between Crystal Seminole and the kids. Like, I, I feel that somebody like her in the building, developing relationships, good relationships with the police. We could actually have somebody who could do something  in-house. I don't know how she's utilized now, but for me, although we had this amazingly quick response, which was so impressive. It would have been even, I think, a presence of somebody like her or somebody a little bit more formal. If you if you want to create a safer environment and and make safety serious. I think that person should be looking like a serious safety person who can do something in the face of a fight. When you have two large young men duking it out. So we don't have female teachers or people who aren't young trying to break up these fights and just creating a more serious presence in the school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I think this, you know, this is the the intention of that. It's like I said, like I said, if I have these position level schools, it's a very

[16371-408] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: up, they can be called out of the building. Then you know they're not going to be even if they're assigned to us full time. And that's their main job. If something happens within the the city, they can be called out at any time.
TEXT> So having them be that constant in the building. This gives us more leeway. So we know there are employee there in the building. This is their first priority and there isn't really a second priority. The first priority is our students. Because you do have resource officers that can be called out for, for, for anything at any time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So with this will be held solely accountable for failures in our safety systems. What's their accountability? I mean, this is like it's a it's a it's a high paying

[16371-443] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: help us to basically give us a safety plan or some kind of deliverable that can help us after their contract is done. Those are like, these are just questions I have. I'm not really, like offering them suggestions or just things I'm wondering about.
TEXT> Yeah, no, I can answer some of your questions. I think in regards to, you know, we all know that we don't know what's going to go on, as we just discussed with federal and local grants and stuff like that. But I think based on they're not going to take away all of it. But I think based on the grant monies we have, even if they say they take away half, this will be a priority. We'd have to reorganize how the grants are spent on a position like this.  Does it have, you know, in upping the you know, I think if the position is funded based on what a average teacher would make and with the right skills, I think we can we can do that. But as far as, you know, this person isn't here to create plans or anything like this. And is this a reaction or a response? I think it's both,  because I know when I started as as principal and I didn't have that person, I brought this to the superintendent and it just didn't go anywhere. Okay. I have never been like I said, you know, I've been doing this for 31 years. I think 25 out of my 31 years has been in the high school situation with very large schools. I've never been in a high school that did not have  above and beyond an Saro boots on the ground to be working with the kids.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And my other question is is there a possibility to like revisit or like at maybe Patrick would know like I think the concerns about like the equity between police

[16371-447] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member (onset fragment of her following remark) | 2025-03-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: Correct. It was yeah okay. Yeah. Okay. So there's really nothing we can do about it. It's just the market treats people that way.
TEXT> At first I thought. I don't know. Just that was my honest reaction. I don't know, I know I would not be comfortable with a uniformed police officer roaming the halls checking. I liked what you said about the uncle, but yet someone with skills that are. Needed to keep our kids safe. I understand the financial component and I'm wondering if it could be advertised and filled as grant funded so that while the grant is in effect, this position is there. It's not a guarantee that it will become part of the local budget. It may,  depending on how. Things do.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Is grant funded because every year it's a year to year contract anyways based on the ground.

[16371-474] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member | 2025-03-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: It makes it a response instead of a reaction, as is.
TEXT> What I like about the fact that you  even brought this forward is that it's showing the community that we're taking this very seriously, and that there are ideas that we would like to implement, and we want to hear from the community. The other thing I would like to see, and this is not for nonpublic, is an analysis of and I picked up this expression from the work we're doing on the strategic plan, how resources and not financial resources, time and personnel are being utilized in these situations. And I know the response was fabulous. Everyone did their job. I can't think of one thing that did not go as planned and our children were safe. So just looking at the whole picture and identifying that this is something that has been seriously discussed, and we're looking at it because we take this very seriously.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: In a comprehensive.

[16371-499] Frank Sprague | School Board Vice Chair | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: days are not built in, but this calendar stays within. I think it's, for the first time in a long time, stays within the CBA. We have no moose. It is what it is. Is nothing more. Nothing less than what's in the CBA. Excellent.
TEXT> So I did some quick math without my by hand. So it may not be accurate, but it looked like it was about 1020 hours. If it was six, how many hours a day? The kids in school? Six hours. Five and a half. Six times 170, 179, 172 days.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: And 72 days.

[16371-553] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-03-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: And it's a valid concern. It's hard to minus. Item number eight is citizens comments. Response. Acuity proposal. This is a request item from this Crawford.
TEXT> Right. So at our last school board meeting, we had a couple of people from the community  come and inform us about a meeting that's happening to our night. Discussion with the Department of Environment Services, regarding the acuity proposal to bring very large toxic waste sorting facility to Claremont. After they talked about that, I was concerned about the safety of our children. So I wrote up this proposal, and I'm sorry to read it, but if you don't mind, the school board stands in opposition to a proposal to bring a very large toxic waste sorting facility to Claremont, New Hampshire. We take this position because of our concerns for the children of Claremont. While the proposal states that truck traffic will be on the outskirts of Claremont, there are no provisions for monitoring this activity effectively. Students are already well, excuse me, citizens are already aware of big trucks that use unauthorized truck routes on Broad Street, South Street and Maple Avenue without any penalty. It's not hard to imagine that Acuity trucks will be using those same unauthorized routes, which pass by several of our schools and streets where our children walk to school. Additionally, we are concerned about air quality and inherent risks should the expansion take place.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Research that identifies these risks that toxic waste, as on children in their development, has been well researched and documented. It is much better to prevent it from ever occurring

[16371-554] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-03-05
PREV> Candace Crawford: It's not hard to imagine that Acuity trucks will be using those same unauthorized routes, which pass by several of our schools and streets where our children walk to school. Additionally, we are concerned about air quality and inherent risks should the expansion take place.
TEXT> Research that identifies these risks that toxic waste, as on children in their development, has been well researched and documented. It is much better to prevent it from ever occurring than trying to develop a plan for mitigation. The proposed facility would be located close to the Maple Avenue Elementary School and the neighborhood houses where children live. The Claremont School Board takes the responsibility to advocate for children seriously, and we think it is very important to speak out against this potentially hazardous effect this facility would have on the children of Claremont. I'd just like to say that I know we don't take political positions. However, this is an advocacy for our children, and that's why I bring it to the school board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: You like to make a motion and support of this?

[16371-586] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (retiring member's closing items per minutes; diar | 2025-03-05
PREV> Whitney Skillen: needs extra tech support, I really think that if a student were interested in like getting more into policy, a student who's interested in studying the law in the future, it could be a good opportunity for them and and and provide tech support for.
TEXT> There is a public request out there for a student leader who would like to help this person with technology. Thank you. Tech support. But I'll call you. I have something to say. Yes, three things quick, really, really quick. One of them is to thank Mr. Pratt for in this whole episode, we're talking about Ice coming into the schools. And you said they would have to get past me. You would go right to that school and you would stop it all. Yes, and. I. Agree, I felt so protected for the children. And I just have to give you a thank you, because you just don't usually hear something like that. And I could see you like just this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I agree.

[16371-594] Bonnie Miles | School Board Member (retiring member's closing items per minutes; diar | 2025-03-05
PREV> Chris Pratt: If you do that, send them to me and I'll send them out.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you. And then the third thing was, I know that when these students were here speaking earlier today, where is my note now? Oh, about the about their band practice. And they would like to, to go back to a double block for that. And I'm not going to be here, but I'm just like to pass the word if maybe you guys could talk about that in the future. Thank you. Because, you know, we want these kids to you want these kids to get awards for what?
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: They're really working on it.

[16408-2] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: that what we do in our schools, we threw out the six should be done in our actions, not just words, because a lot of times, no words aren't. So anything that we do here, we want to make sure that we're doing an actions.
TEXT> So the purpose of tonight's meeting is not only to review the recent events that took place at Stevens High School on February 11th. I also want to talk about what the schools do and will continue to do in regards to the school safety and all of the six schools. We aim to review the actions that the C six taken before and since the incident, and outline our ongoing commitment to providing safe school environment that our students need. I also want to provide all of you with the opportunity to ask questions, and we will start tonight with some general questions to the panel, followed by opening up to the public for your participation. This forum is an opportunity for us to gather ideas and suggestions from the community, and how we continue to enhance safety measures in our schools. The airport is very valuable as we work together to create secure and supportive educational environments for all students as we proceed to tonight's meeting. I would like to emphasize the importance of respecting the process that we have in place. We have to. Everyone allows each other to speak. And she had their thoughts. Without interruption. This will ensure that all voices are heard and valued.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Additionally, we request that you frame from using any inappropriate language during our discussion. It is crucial that we treat each other with respect. Fostering a positive, constructive environment for

[16408-3] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: to tonight's meeting. I would like to emphasize the importance of respecting the process that we have in place. We have to. Everyone allows each other to speak. And she had their thoughts. Without interruption. This will ensure that all voices are heard and valued.
TEXT> Additionally, we  request that you frame from using any inappropriate language during our discussion. It is crucial that we treat each other with respect. Fostering a positive, constructive environment for everyone involved. Thank you for your cooperation and understanding as we work together towards our common goal for ensuring the safe schools well-being for our students. I would  like to introduce the panel tonight and myself, Superintendent of Schools. Also joining us tonight is Chief Officer Simon  Row, Principal Romeo from Claymont Hill School. Mr. blunt, principal of Maple. Miss Lewis, principal of business. Mr. Magoffin is current principal at bluff, but she's not able to join us tonight. Doctor Harrington, the high school principal. Mr..  Assistant Superintendent Jeff Small, a director of technology. And Mr. McCusker, director of student services. I would also like to thank CCTV for broadcasting tonight for all of you who weren't able to be with us in person. If you would like to address the panel, please approach the podium and provide your name and the school or schools that your child attends. If you have a student that attends school district. Each each speaker will be given three minutes at the podium. After three minutes, I will ask that you preclude so others have an opportunity to speak after everyone has.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Who speaks? Who wishes to speak as a chance, we will offer an additional time for those who would like to further contribute. Okay. Once again, I would like to

[16408-4] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: or schools that your child attends. If you have a student that attends school district. Each each speaker will be given three minutes at the podium. After three minutes, I will ask that you preclude so others have an opportunity to speak after everyone has.
TEXT> Who speaks? Who wishes to speak as a chance, we will offer an additional time for those who would like to further contribute. Okay. Once again, I would like to thank you for your attention and commitment to ensuring the safety of our students. And tonight we're going to start off with,  Kevin Doctor Harrington Stevens, High School principal. By sharing with you what actually took place on February 11th. That's where you all have, are getting actual account of what took place on that day. Doctor Harrington so the incident that happened is not difficult to tell, but.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: The format that I'm going to do is I'm going to tell you how it happened to me. And kind of the best way to experience it. Now, there are

[16408-8] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: taking the elevators and what you can put in is the video that was seen was, students dancing in the elevator, and they all have their hands up, and then they kind of point to the gun, which was the BB gun, which was in
TEXT> somebody's, pants. So they all know was there. And then when you go back and watch the video,  you can kind of see from an angle at least 1 or 2 students dancing in the elevator. And you can kind of say, yeah, that's where that video was shot right there. Not 100% or pretty close to it. There were incidents where, one of the students were putting sticky notes on doors. I don't know why  it was that, like, maybe they were going to go back and, you know, kind of terrorize in that classroom. And when they tried to hide in a bathroom, they jumped up and tried to put a sticky note on that camera. You know, so there seemed to be some kind of motive to hide their actions.  I will say, from the moment we had the initial lockdown before the video was seen. Okay. And then the video was seen.  The, the assistant tech director went back to video it on her phone, and that video was gone. All right. Deleted. So my guess is that once the lockdown happened, these students knew why and then went back to try and kind of, you know, delete their tracks. To my knowledge, you know, those videos can be fair.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: After the students were detained, they were brought to the main office. They were put in separate offices and searched. Then the police went through because we weren't really sure

[16408-9] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: and that video was gone. All right. Deleted. So my guess is that once the lockdown happened, these students knew why and then went back to try and kind of, you know, delete their tracks. To my knowledge, you know, those videos can be fair.
TEXT> After the students were detained, they were brought to the main office. They were put in separate offices and searched. Then the police went through because we weren't really sure exactly who, we were looking for.  And they did a room by room search, with weapons. And it was, it was very scary. I've talked to almost every single student, and it's very intimidating. I will say take a moment to say publicly.  A lot of the lot of the students have come up to me and said, you know, it's frustrating when people in the community say, I was BB gun. That wasn't real. Because at that time we didn't know what was being on and the actions from the police officers. Whereas if it was, It was a loaded gun.  And that's what our students had to deal with. And that is what they're still dealing with and we probably deal with for quite some time. And many of them have come to me voicing that frustration with people not realizing that this was real. You know,  so they went through and they. Checked. Every room, every door. We found some errors in our, to system. There's least two offices with people in them that did not hear the lockdown and were just busted in by police with guns. You know, and we had been working on fix That, and just kind of going through everything.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: With a rough day after everything went through. We pulled everyone into the auditorium and let them know what happened. And that everyone was okay. And then it was about

[16408-11] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: rough day after everything went through. We pulled everyone into the auditorium and let them know what happened. And that everyone was okay. And then it was about five minutes before the end of the day, and then we dismissed. The end of the day.
TEXT> Thank you, Doctor Harrington. You know what I, I do  want to say is that the response time from Plymouth City PD and all the surrounding areas was incredible because, like Doctor Harrington said, he was still on the phone when police were already entering the building to resolve the situation. In fact, I was on the phone with the assistant superintendent and she said, I got to hang out. They're already here. So it was it was a matter of minutes before we had an old woman spot. So I want to thank,  Chief Oman and Officer Simons because it's the kids felt a sense of how important they are  to us and from the community, just based on that response time. So I want to publicly think the Claremont City PD and all of us around towns that responded. But Lake Doctor Harrison said,  it's surprising sometimes where people put on Facebook, but it was real for everybody involved, and it's going to sit with them for a long time. And that's why I was thinking important to have this this forum is that we need to come together and say, during the the community participation here is like what?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: We can go as far as we, we want with security, but we have to know what the what the city and what the community, they want us to go

[16408-13] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard School | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: when I walked through the building. Okay. Making sure that the school is safe. So one of our some of our primary responsibility. Take principals. We want to, you know, just discuss what you do on a regular basis. Every guys to save the schools.
TEXT> Right. So from the moment that we enter the building,  we're always watching. We're always looking.  Do we see doors that are proud? Do we see? Thank you. Do we see anything that looks like a potential factor? Do we see something that doesn't belong? Do we see something that is going to be a potential hazard? Once students are in the building, as can imagine, schools are very busy places even before students arrive. So that's kind of how the day starts.  Big picture. Our primary responsibility is setting that expectation for our staff and students about what it means to be in a safe school. So, for example, the expectation is we do not drop doors ever,  unless it's with a human as somebody going outside, for example.  We need to it's our it's our responsibility as principles to provide the training that our and our students need at the elementary level. As you can imagine, it's a little bit different  because it's a whole lot scarier when you're five and you're not understanding why you have to practice a lock down or why. What do you mean? There could be a fire in my building, those kinds of things.  It's our responsibility to hold the drills in practice and think of all the different scenarios that can happen.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: What if kids are in the cafeteria? What if kids are out of recess? What if kids are are in their classrooms? What if nobody's in the classroom next door?

[16408-14] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard School | 2025-03-17
PREV> Melissa Lewis: why you have to practice a lock down or why. What do you mean? There could be a fire in my building, those kinds of things. It's our responsibility to hold the drills in practice and think of all the different scenarios that can happen.
TEXT> What if kids are in the cafeteria? What if kids are out of recess? What if kids are  are in their classrooms? What if nobody's in the classroom next door? All of those scenarios, and then we're problem solvers. So as you heard Doctor Harrington say, you know, we noticed a gap.  They noticed some gaps in intercom systems. And it's our job to figure out how we make that better. How do we fix that  within within the daily confines of our day? And then last but not least, we collaborate with emergency services. We have we all have great relationships with the fire department and the police department. We say, hey, here's our dilemma. What's a better place for this to happen? Where should these kids go? And and we use our resources wisely.
NEXT> Mark Blount: I would echo many of the things that Melissa commented on as well. You know, when we do drills, which we do these on a monthly basis, we are required

[16408-22] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 (opening clause belongs to the preceding unident | 2025-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: we were able to add, a bunch more security cameras. We had a lot of blind spots. Before this incident even happened. Working with our maintenance director. He's added locks for the doors. For keep of entry. So the doors, exterior doors are always locked.
TEXT> You already mentioned, the alert system helps side when there is a lockdown. Yeah. I mean, I mean, that goes that goes across all schools. So whatever we do with one, we. Try. You know, we do it for for all of them. And I know just, you know, for instance, when I got at the, well, it's been a year, three weeks and three quarters of a day since I took over. And we went over to the, central office. We noted that I noticed that anyone could just walk right in. So when we're talking about school safety, we're also talking about central office safety as well. So we were able to put the buzzer in there with cameras. So we're able to keep the people in that building safe as well.  When I was principal, the first thing I did in the attendance office is that we got the golden draft  glass for the main window there. The point, I think some people thought it was overkill, but I think that was the entry point. That's where we have all students coming and going. It was necessary. And, you know, I'd rather be proactive than reactive when it comes to these kind of situations, especially when we're talking about the the safety of our students. So switching gears a little bit, as principals, how do you address bullying harassment in your schools?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: How how do we. Someone so walk through the steps in regards to when someone reports bullying and harassment. What do we do? What are the steps that we take?

[16408-27] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: You have to go through things on their perspective. And we found it to be very successful. You know, with all the things that we do, I would say that's probably the most beneficial.
TEXT> Is any help we do get report. Bullying, harassment. Harassment is a protected category. Bullying is just ongoing. That happens all the time. You know, we all know that. And we all know that.  I don't think no matter what school at bullying in harassment is a problem. And it's and we can put things in place to separate students, whether it's suspension or detentions and stuff. But that's not going to fix the problem. But it's changing the climate, getting the kids come to them up to report that it is happening, because every single time it is reported, whether it's bullying or it is investigator. And sometimes, unfortunately,  it comes down to,  we have to go with the concrete evidence we have. You know, a lot of times it could be 95% sure it's happening, but we don't have enough to take one student work over the other. So we try to sort all that out and still put things in place, like we're still here. Practices where you're given the opportunity for students to  talk about what happened. Acknowledge if there was a victim, that they were harmed, and what can we do to put in place. So this doesn't happen again. It's kind of like what adults we like, you know, as  we like to do, we like to talk to you.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: There's a lot of times where we're trying to teach students in the school the soft skills they need to be successful in life. And I think too often, there

[16408-28] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: Acknowledge if there was a victim, that they were harmed, and what can we do to put in place. So this doesn't happen again. It's kind of like what adults we like, you know, as we like to do, we like to talk to you.
TEXT> There's a lot of times where we're trying to teach students in the school the soft skills they need to be successful in life. And I think too often, there are times that students need to be suspended and expelled or what have you. But we should always be taking the time to,  exercise the opportunities to make it a learning experience. One of the things that, you know, you've seen over the years, least in my mind, is that you can have discipline procedures and protocols in place, but if it's not consistent and fair. It's not going to work with students because they're going to if one student gets detention for talking back to the teacher and another thing gets a spending, and what's that going for student disparities. So we're we try to continue each year. We we put the behavior matrix in place,  especially for the middle and high school to be as a like as possible. But that's something we look at at the end of each year, because that matrix is only going to work based on the current student population, should be a very fluid matrix that we have to keep going back and revisiting based on the problems we are seeing within,  the current student population, usually in a matrix, what you look at is things that are,  suspension or expulsions are things that are going to be against the law and you're going to find yourself the court or
NEXT> Chris Pratt: in jail. Things that are tensions are usually things that like a speeding ticket or something. We're trying to relate it to real world situations where kids to the for

[16408-35] Wayne Hemingway | Public commenter; parent (daughter at CMS); NH State Representative (s | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: And that's given the community and opportunity to ask any of us on the panel questions in regards to, questions or, or next steps. So I open it up to any community members who want to, address the panel. Come on up and fire away.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is Henning Way. I have a daughter in CMS. And the both came up to dinner. Thank you, Melissa, for the job. I just want to say that there's two. Ways this thing could win. The police did an awesome job, and you cheat from your team and all the responders that that came out for their quick reaction. Seeing seeing a. Seeing a gun that looks like it might have been a real gun. It could have gone two ways. They could have. We could have totally took those kids out, or  it could have been a real gun and it could have been something worse. So we sit there and say it was just a BB gun. We yeah, it was a BB gun, but we have to look at it looked like a real gun and it could have gone different ways. So thank you for everyone that showed up. And I know it was scary. And I don't know if,  what those kids went through. I'm sure it was terrifying. So thank you. Furthermore, I think that we need to look at this as a community and decide how we're going to fix this. Claremont, in my opinion, is not totally a violent crime city.
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: You have to look at Claremont. It's the largest city in Sullivan County. Next one is Newport. Our our major problem is drugs. So when something like this happens to

[16408-38] Unidentified parent | Public commenter (father of Stevens students; opening of comment large | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Actually, I can just bring them up to you, but.
TEXT> Hello. There we go. That was largely responsible for what happened. He was a problem through middle school.  Lots of tensions. I assesses, and again, you know, we're we're we're a small community. This isn't New York City. So, you know, we we we tend to hear what's going on. So first I'd like to know what we're doing proactively to identify kids who may have issues. And what are we doing to contain those kids in those issues prior to, you know, just putting them through to the next three to the next school and keeping them in,  you know, the, the normal population, And then the other question that I had, Doctor Harrington, you said that the kids,  the four of them were on video for about 40 minutes longer than the halls.  How did we not know that they were one of the calls? And actually, before. Before I give it back to you, I just want to,  you know, echo what Wayne said down here,  I had the unique  experience of actually being in the parking lot. While all of this was going on,  I was supposed to pick up  my sons to go to a dentist appointment.  So I arrived shortly after all the police arrived and everything. And, you know, at that point, the community knew this was not a drill. Something's going on. There's a gun in the school. And, you know, my heart sank.
NEXT> Unidentified parent: And, you know, there's, like, everybody else's. But to see the police from Claremont and all the other communities that responded, just running into the building where their guns, not

[16408-42] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: didn't, they I don't want to say it wasn't a surprise because it was what I had thought that any one of them were done. Not, have we dealt with? Were there plans put in place for students involved in this? Yes. I think that,
TEXT> When you look at it and these two things are kind of connected, right? Your question about how were they in those in the hallways? You know, for that long without someone knowing. And I will tell you,  I was looking for because one of them was reported out. I was actually actively looking for one of them. Went out for two of them when I got to report that I was there. And one of the things that happened is that we've always been, And I want to say, talking to the staff, it really does seem to be Sims Covid, and I hate to put it on that, but there was a shift in students and being out of classroom. Right. And one of the major things that I said to the students, that day in the in the  gymnasium was there will be no more wandering this building at all. And I put into place and it's still in place if you are not where you were supposed to be and you were out wandering halls, I'm just sending you home. It is. It is a safety risk. I am not playing around.  There were a few students that didn't think I was serious. They found out they won.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: Incredibly serious. For the majority, I want to say that the students absolutely recognize, how serious this is. I know that our staffing is a little limited. Limited in certain

[16408-44] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: And I had to explain to someone today, you know what? It's a mistake for you to think that I don't remember being 14, and it was a long. You think it was a long time ago? It really wasn't. To me, it was yesterday.
TEXT> So one of the things that I'm trying to do to balance that, is I put out to the student body a principal, a student principal advisory committee, about 17 to 20 students. Apply for it.  It's right now the structure is going to be two students for every grade.  And I'm trying to create something that is represented with the student body. All right. Students that play sports. Students that, are in drama. Students that aren't involved in activities. You know, students that are high achievers, students that struggle. So when we sit and we talk and we talk about the issues that are affecting them, we can get a better grasp of everything that's affecting. And my hope is that by doing that right, I can have knowledge of what's affecting the students and build trust with them so that they can come to me or any other administrator or any other teacher and actually, you know, talk about the issues that, that they're concerned about. And I'm hoping that hit those three points.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So I think we need to go to the program. But how could these kids be in the office such a long time? If you look at the video, you

[16408-45] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Michael Herrington: what's affecting the students and build trust with them so that they can come to me or any other administrator or any other teacher and actually, you know, talk about the issues that, that they're concerned about. And I'm hoping that hit those three points.
TEXT> So I think we need to  go to the program. But how could these kids be in the office such a long time?  If you look at the video, you really can't tell when you go into lockdown because it weren't really any kids in the hallway. And I think that's the when teachers are teaching, administrators are tied up with other things. For the most part, kids aren't in the hallway. We really don't have anyone patrolling the hallway.  That's the you know what it was. We kids were wandering the hallway. And so if we do have the, you know, we do need to bet a job to make sure that, you know, we don't want any kids wanted in the hallway, because this is what happens sometimes. Kids want to come. So we're looking at ways to put things in place, not just for the high school, but in general too. So this doesn't happen again. Like doctor said, put some things in place. Temporary say great. I don't know, having kids in the hallway. If you. Are you going home? And when I was principal at the high school, you know, for me, it's like we have to focus on 95 to 98% of the kids who want to be here, and they want to learn,  and the parents who want the kids to come and learn to be safe.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: If you have the other 4%, 5% of the kids who don't want to come here, they don't want to be learning and they need unsafe, then they're just not

[16408-46] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: at the high school, you know, for me, it's like we have to focus on 95 to 98% of the kids who want to be here, and they want to learn, and the parents who want the kids to come and learn to be safe.
TEXT> If you have the other 4%, 5% of the kids who don't want to come here, they don't want to be learning and they need unsafe, then they're just not going to be here. And I think that's the direction we have to move is, is those four percentage they want to be part of the school community. They get to get on board with the other 95 to 96% increase in the same school, in a place where kids can come to learn and say, we have the schools, that kids don't feel safe. It doesn't matter what we have for money, it doesn't matter what we have a curriculum or education. They're not going to be in the mindset to work. You get an education.
NEXT> Unidentified parent: Have a freshman as you talk about tracking them. On video. So that was a bet that they were expecting the video. Yes. So is there. No one like watching

[16408-50] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter (parent; describes conducting investigations for the  | 2025-03-17
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: guys do like it in a generalized way. What your process is and understand that. Hey, we need to gather this and this and this and understand that we may not get that. So we may not be able to come to that that information.
TEXT> And I understand the whole emergency operations thing. I've also done some training which you will not for phrase training. And it would be really nice if we had the public training for that so that the public can get some understanding. So that kind of training scares the crap out of you. Maybe the parents would understand. The public would understand what that training and what is responsible in there so that they understand that, you know, it's not just begun, it's terrifying. And those kids understand it. I was talking to my son today about it, because I wanted to have a little bit and put some what he said. He's like, you know, we were scared about it because I was I was nervous about it until I found evidence at the high school. We were really upset about it because we didn't know. He goes in there. I mean, he goes, I know that those BB gun because the public doesn't have maybe they need to learn.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, I think that it goes goes on to say that I think as public schools, we're dealing with so much, you know, a lot of things we go into

[16408-54] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Ashley Goff: they are all of them sitting quietly, doing their best to not make noise, to take it seriously and know your life is possibly in being during the friends lives and possibly endangering. Seriously. So I just think that that's maybe something to think about.
TEXT> Yano. After the. Briefing,  the doctor and administration there is that at the high school, the kids knew it was real, just by the tone of the inflection that was being sent to them. You know, other times, you know, it's like, this is a lockdown, this is that. But just the, the, the voice that was coming out, you could feel the anxiety in the period. So I think the high school. But I mean I don't know enough about you know, you know, how we get it to kids because it's like they do it over. It's like five girls. It's a five year. We don't really have a virus. How do we get beyond that?  And that's something that, like you said, with a really close relationship with the police and fire department is something we can talk about, is like, how do we send the message out so they know that just don't go through the motions. You never know. And I and I think just based on this real scare that we have here at the at the high school, I can guarantee that anytime we expect to be serious. But it shouldn't have to come to this. They have kids. Take it seriously. I guess for us it's a it's a learning experience. How do we get kids to know that you don't know if it's real or if it's a drill?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I don't, you know, I like to say we're going to get there, but when you do something over and over again, you know, 99% of the time it

[16408-58] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: in front of me. So I challenged him on the afterwards, I said when she said I was expecting some social justice warrior, and what I got is he got my face and said, because you can't make me. So I think I said, enough.
TEXT> And students are definitely a lot different now than the Eagle School. I think if I went home and said I got trouble for something that I had to do, my parents would say, well, that's what the next time you do something, you don't think God.  So I think that's it's changed a lot. Now we're trying to navigate that. We're trying to be as consistent as we can with discipline, but also looking at each kid of an individual, we find out what they need to be successful. And that's it's very difficult to do that right now. So, you know, I want to ask the question to all of you. What do you feel the next step should be in SC six in regards to what the schools need so our kids can get a better education without the interruptions that we've been seeing over the years.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: All of you have gotten here, sophomore at the high school. Just to see how proud I am of our local party, but ultimately Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont.

[16408-60] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Unidentified public commenter: All of you have gotten here, sophomore at the high school. Just to see how proud I am of our local party, but ultimately Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont.
TEXT> And I think that's been a common problem you guys, to you can have things in place, but he place that I've come into, it lacks that consistency. And my focus just you know, as a superintendent, we have to draw the line in the sand and say, our schools are for kids who want to learn. And if you can't be here and want to be one of those students to learn and it's going to cause an unsafe environment, then I'm sorry. You just can't be here. I think we're at that point there. They're not any options at this point, but we're also walking. That fine line is that we still have to provide students with an education at some point. But we have to send a message as Claremont Claymont community and doing this together. And we're done with this. It's gone on to long. These institutions are for learning period and will help you if you want to be here to learn. But what? Not going to do all the work for you.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: And consistency is absolutely one piece of the transparency. Make sure that it's transparent. So make sure that. Everybody. Knows what. Those those pieces are so that it's crystal clear.

[16408-66] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: Yeah, hopefully. We can see your question. Know I can answer, but I don't see if anyone on the board on the panel wants to answer. And guys do. Michael and Oscar, Director of Student Services.
TEXT> One of the first tactics I had when I came in July, first to find the mental health clinician for us, because we had a great deal of students who knew that service, the first one was signed right before I came on. She never showed us, so  went back to the drawing board. Found another one, got her to the point where she was on board and ready to start. Changed her mind. Didn't want to come. So  part of the problem is people who are doing that kind of work. We did go sign a contract with Counseling Associates. So somebody starting to come into the buildings to offer some services. But, you know, like everywhere else in society, there's a short coming of bodies of people who are qualified to do the work. So just know that the issues are real. But we're working to try to fill the gaps and get the kids what they need. But it's not an easy task.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah. And I have to say is that, you know, this is a real shortage area, not just in Claremont for general social workers, nurses, clinicians, mental health workers, school

[16408-67] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Mike McCosker: there's a short coming of bodies of people who are qualified to do the work. So just know that the issues are real. But we're working to try to fill the gaps and get the kids what they need. But it's not an easy task.
TEXT> Yeah. And I have to say is that, you know, this is a real shortage area, not just in Claremont for general social workers, nurses, clinicians, mental health workers, school counselors. We're looking for that, just not out there. But in the meantime, you know, people understand is that all this is falling on our classroom teachers. And it's exhausting. They continue to do day in and day out what they need to do for the students, and they will continue to do so. But it's very easy  for them because like I said before, we're not trained to be in a mental health condition or social worker or counselor, so they're taking on the responsibilities out of necessity. And I think that's something we continue to be aware of, is that we're dealing with a lot of escalated behaviors in the classroom. We're dealing with a lot of social emotional behaviors in the schools. We're dealing  with  a lot of the stuff that students have at home. They're bringing with them at school. So it kind of goes back before that until we can meet these students needs, and we're able to find the people to do that. We're doing everything we can, you know, especially the classroom teachers to try to beat these needs without having the body to help it. I  just use it for the CCTV so they can you.
NEXT> Multiple: Can buy that my home, I guess. How many students are currently at. 400.

[16408-76] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: Tell them why you can't find this one.
TEXT> It's just a shorter you. It's a shorter period. Counseling. Like I said there's a lot of shortage areas out there. You know, special letters and other area to meet the needs of these students on it. Individual education plans. But we just can't find them. But it has to do with the Claremont. It's just in general, you know. So,  our counselors are doing double or triple the work. You know, I think one point of entry school, we didn't have a council. I think we only have two, maybe three social workers in the whole district. We're looking for them. We just can't find it. And it's not a claim on thing. It's a national thing. You know, even with  bus drivers, they're not out there either. So every time someone goes away, it takes us forever. Repost and repost and we just can't find it. I think at one point I think it was a keen state. I think there was like, it's like 63% of teen state or in education. I think now it's only around 18%, something like that. If the percentage is so off now because people aren't going into education because of the degrees, they can go to places, make more money and not have to deal with the compounding issues that we see in publication.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So we're not alone in this. This is actually just are not unique to claim on. But, we do the best we can to to get the, the staff. We

[16408-77] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: only around 18%, something like that. If the percentage is so off now because people aren't going into education because of the degrees, they can go to places, make more money and not have to deal with the compounding issues that we see in publication.
TEXT> So we're not alone in this. This is actually just are not unique to claim on. But,  we do the best we can to to get the, the staff. We can put the right stuff. So. Anyone else want to express next steps for what we can do for our students?
NEXT> Priscilla Stevens: Priscilla Stevens I do not have any students presently in the system, but I'm very concerned as a community member, these students will be our future leaders, so we deserve

[16408-78] Priscilla Stevens | Public commenter; community member without students in the district (a | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: This is actually just are not unique to claim on. But, we do the best we can to to get the, the staff. We can put the right stuff. So. Anyone else want to express next steps for what we can do for our students?
TEXT> Priscilla  Stevens I do not have any students presently in the system, but I'm very concerned as a community member, these students will be our future leaders, so we deserve to give them the very best that we possibly can. And I agree with working together as a team. Trust transparency foremost because once we lose the trust, it's very hard to gain back. So we need to work together as a team to get this, all of that and keep our students safe and educated. Thank you. And the other thing was, I don't know, I was just wondering about never in the schools. I don't know if that would work or not, but no matter what I've done is a gun. Whether it's a drawing, whether it's anything, just a finger pointing at you like our old days, it's gotta be serious. Thank you for doing that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: You have already started. Now we're not ruling out anything at this point. First and foremost is keeping our kids safe. And I think for at least at the high

[16408-79] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Priscilla Stevens: schools. I don't know if that would work or not, but no matter what I've done is a gun. Whether it's a drawing, whether it's anything, just a finger pointing at you like our old days, it's gotta be serious. Thank you for doing that.
TEXT> You have already started. Now we're not ruling out anything at this point. First and foremost is keeping our kids safe. And I think for at least at the high school, after going through something like they did anything that's going to make them feel safe and focus on learning is something we have to explore. And so, you know, middle detectives are not I have a book. The question is that something unique school wants to go to know. But when you have such a post-college you did. If it's proactive, it's proactive. We make 99% of the time. Maybe we'll never get them. I worry about the 1%. So it's the only you want to.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Yeah. Thank you. I just want to touch on something you had asked earlier. Sort of. What are some of the things that we're doing? And while this is obviously

[16408-87] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter (retired teacher of 36 years who still works in class | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: the teachers, the administrators, myself and my office were committed to moving forward to redefine what education looks like and claim on from what they learned from behaviors in the school. So, anyone else have anything they want to add in regards to moving forward.
TEXT> This year? Because I really feel that whatever we do as adults, the kids have become a buy in. If if they don't, it won't work. I worked with  teaching with kids for 36 years and still something that they paid through eight school and it is very different, very different. I would challenge any school board members,  parents who are interested in if they could be allowed to go into a school for a day and sit back from a classroom and see how some of our teachers get get treated by some of these kids, I could tell you that last Thursday, I was in a seventh, eighth grade class. And they just and they know me and they would just assume and say, you can't tell me to do that. You're not my mother or you're not my teacher. And I'm like, I  go right back to, I want you to be respectful and I want you to be safe. That's all I require. If you're not doing that, you're out of the class. But if you don't have the kids invested in it, it won't work. So I'm really glad that my grandson Carter is here. I think he's showing that there is some interest. So in February. Last time, the, So I just. Want to echo. What Mr.. Madden said. A little bit.
NEXT> Unidentified public commenter: Ago, you know, about. Consistency in terms of discipline and things like that. You know, I, I have seen firsthand, that, you know, you got the matrix and all of

[16408-90] Unidentified public commenter | Public commenter (closing remarks — onset fragment) | 2025-03-17
PREV> Chris Pratt: have to do a better job of doing it together. And that's why I wanted this opportunity tonight. So I just want to, you know, say it's anyone else who wants to see any closing remarks, whether community member who went on the panel. Right.
TEXT> So. I appreciate everyone. Coming out and  voice. In their opinion on this. I think that is both on the student and the teachers. So as long as the teachers are held to their account  and the students are held to their accountability, things will move forward.  I don't know what if one thinks about the drastic measures of putting a metal detectors in the schools at this point?  I don't think the the tax rate could handle another increase, but I would I would definitely go get some grants if that's what the majority of the town feels that we need metal detectors in, there are some sort of increased security to check the kids as they come in. That's. That. Would be that  my idea? Again, I'm not I'm not for the increase in the tax rate, but I think it would get a grant and it would cover 100% of that. Then maybe that's what we did, you know, not totally flawed for  100% of the, intrusion on the privacy, however, we are talking about our kids that we need to protect.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So thank you. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Yes. As far as the detectors, goggles looked into it, it would be a good day for Grant. So. It's not something

[16408-93] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-17
PREV> Unidentified parent: in and this administration wants you to come, they want to talk to you, they want to hear your opinion and they want to work with you. So come talk, express your opinions, give your input because they want to work with us. So come.
TEXT> Thank you. And I would echo that for the school board to I think, you know, I've been doing this for 30 years and it's my 10th year of superintendent. It was cool, was very supportive teachers, students in the community. But we need people, more people coming out to express,  you know,  what you want, want to see in support what we're doing or speak up against something. You know, that's that's part of the process.  It was just  coincident that I think it was around, I would say December. I started a superintendents community  committee.  And it just so happened that, you know, everything else took place after that. So we do, like you said, we do want to hear. It's just not the school and the administration, the school board as well. We can't do this alone. I think everyone had been trying to do it on either side or do. On whether it's the city, go to school, get involved, because I think we're at a point of Claremont where we want to be more involved so we can be on the same page moving forward for our students. We do have a new drug court in the city.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think it's the same thing. And the more we have coming together in resolving the problem, that's when it's going to make a difference and that's what we can

[16409-19] Camron Lownie | Public commenter, Ward 2; district teacher (Disnard Elementary) | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: And and state your name to just for the folks.
TEXT> Multitasking is. So hard. Good evening. My name is Cameron Louny, Ward two. And in the interest of full transparency, I am also a teacher at Disney Elementary. Last week during Ella, we got to a part in the book where the dog dies. Whether it's Old Yellow or Old Yeller where the red fern grows. Or in this case, love that dog. They're always killing dogs in the elementary Ella curriculum. You can imagine the waterworks anyway, on days like that. I can't do my job of teaching reading, writing unless the kids are emotionally safe. They have to be physically, mentally available for learning to take place. They have to feel safe. I feel confident that the 2016 policy regarding trans and non-conforming students has roots in that reality. Not only do kids deserve to feel supported and comfortable, and we can't expect test scores to improve unless those conditions are met. I'm here to speak out strongly against rescinding our current policy. I understand the gravity of playing roulette with federal funding, both for my students, my colleagues, and myself. However, I'd like to speak briefly to three reasons for my stance. One, the likelihood of the relevant executive order still standing by the time next year's budget rolls around seems 5050 at best.
NEXT> Camron Lownie: Just yesterday, a judge blocked the current administration's executive order regarding transgender members of the military. Plus, I'm not positive we can expect the skeletal remains of the Department of

[16409-20] Camron Lownie | Public commenter, Ward 2; district teacher (Disnard Elementary) | 2025-03-19
PREV> Camron Lownie: with federal funding, both for my students, my colleagues, and myself. However, I'd like to speak briefly to three reasons for my stance. One, the likelihood of the relevant executive order still standing by the time next year's budget rolls around seems 5050 at best.
TEXT> Just yesterday, a judge blocked the current administration's executive order regarding transgender members of the military. Plus, I'm not positive we can expect the skeletal remains of the Department of Education to be sifting through low level policies, given that complying in advance to avoid potential repercussions might not be logical. Two we have examples of educational bodies that recently have attempted to toe the line and then were hit with retaliatory funding cuts. Anyway, Columbia University expelled student protesters in an attempt at compliance, and then five days ago, watched their budget be slashed by 400 million. There are not many constants in the world right now, but it seems you can count on the goalposts being moved. Three you were elected to help our kids. The mission statement on that wall refers to empowering every student. Queer youth in general are four times as likely to attempt suicide as their peers. In this country, there's an attempt every 45 seconds. When you look at trans and non-binary kids in particular, roughly half have strongly considered suicide in the past year. That's the whole ball game right there. With numbers like that, I don't really care about points one and two, to be honest.
NEXT> Camron Lownie: These are our most vulnerable kids. If you're concerned about bullying, I'm concerned that rescinding this policy takes away a tool in our toolbox. If you're concerned about Washington bureaucrats

[16409-31] Jess Dyer | Public commenter, Ward 1 (onset of self-introduction clipped into chai | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Hello.
TEXT> My name. Is Jeff Stier. I am here  from board one.  I'm not a fan of public speaking at all. So I have to catch me. Being prepared. I'm here today as a Claremont resident,  as a taxpayer, and as a parent of soon to be two children in the school district.  And mostly I am here as an ally.  I regretfully admit that I have  never spoke at a school board meeting, let alone,  attended one. In the 30 years that I have called this town my home. But there's a first time for everything. And these issues  being brought to today's agenda are extremely important to me.  As well as many community members. I mostly want to touch on, you know, like, if this is really about the threat to federal funding, what is the plan going forward? Like, are we just stripping this all together? How will we still protect these children? Like,  while we still have a Department of education? For now. And while title nine still exists for now.  Also, I just wanted to make it clear that, like, when we choose to remove protections and rights like basic human rights for a select group of students, that sends a message to all of our students.
NEXT> Jess Dyer: Okay. I fully believe silence is compliance. So I am curious what the school board will do. Should we vote to remove this policy? I also want to remind the

[16409-32] Jess Dyer | Public commenter, Ward 1 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Jess Dyer: And while title nine still exists for now. Also, I just wanted to make it clear that, like, when we choose to remove protections and rights like basic human rights for a select group of students, that sends a message to all of our students.
TEXT> Okay.  I fully believe silence is compliance. So I am curious what the school board will do. Should we vote to remove this policy? I also want to remind the school board that to the best of my knowledge, this is the only district that is even,  considering reviewing or removing these policies. So that's just something to take in. So if we're going to set the precedent and we're going to lead by example, I'm asking the school board to please do the right thing because it is the right thing to do. And I want to just say, I know I have no time, but I just want to say to the queer kids in our community, to the transgender, to the non-binary, to the students in our community, and to every student that does not fit in a perfect little mold, doesn't check all the boxes. I see you. I'm glad you're here. You matter and we're going to fight for you.
NEXT> Anna O'Hara: Good evening. My name is an O'Hara and I'm a lifelong resident of this community. I even attended classes in this very building a few years ago. I'm here tonight

[16409-33] Anna O'Hara | Public commenter; lifelong Claremont resident | 2025-03-19
PREV> Jess Dyer: the transgender, to the non-binary, to the students in our community, and to every student that does not fit in a perfect little mold, doesn't check all the boxes. I see you. I'm glad you're here. You matter and we're going to fight for you.
TEXT> Good evening. My name is an O'Hara and I'm a lifelong resident of this community. I even attended classes in this very building a few years ago. I'm here tonight to express my strong opposition to the proposed removal of a policy designed to ensure the safety, dignity, and inclusion of all of our students. This policy does not grant special privileges. It provides basic protections allowing students to use facilities where they feel safe and promoting inclusivity in school sports. Removing it sends a clear and harmful message that some students will being is negotiable. Just weeks ago, we stood together advocating for quality education for every child in the state. Yet tonight we are debating whether certain students deserve to feel safe and supported in their own schools. This is not leadership. It is capitulation to outside pressure at the expense of our most vulnerable students. We should be fighting for our students, not against them. I urge this board to reject this rollback and reaffirm its commitment to fostering a school environment where every child is valued and protected. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Anyone else who would like to speak?

[16409-35] Hanna Brooks | Public commenter, Claremont resident | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Anyone else who would like to speak?
TEXT> Hi everyone! Also not a big public speaker, but hearing hearing all these voices. Very inspiring. Sorry. My name is Hannah Brooks, resident of Claremont. I do a lot of work in this community, really supporting our queer youth. And, Just the fact that this is being thought of crazy. Speaking of only being the only school district, I talked to another school district today about this happening, and they were like, are you kidding me? They they can actually do that. And I was like, no kidding. Wild.  I want to echo what everyone else has said. I also want to bring up the statistic that really resonates with me and I hope resonates with you all. 28% of transgender youth in New Hampshire high schools have attempted suicide in the past year. More than one in 1 in 4 trans youth. That number between one county and the upper valley is about 27. About the same. Sorry. What I want to encourage you all to think about as you make this decision tonight. What's more important? The fear of federal funds being pulled or the lives of our kids down the road. And I just want end with that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? I knew you were going to stay. Oh.

[16409-37] Jennifer Gallagher | Public commenter, Ward 1; former School Board member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else? I knew you were going to stay. Oh.
TEXT> You know. Hi, everybody. Jen Gallagher, Ward one.   Welcome, new board members. Just a year ago, I was sitting right where you are. And I love this board. And I love this community, and I love, education.  So I just wanted to come here and support our students. Nothing could be more clear to me than our mission as an saw. Our mission is to inspire, engage, and empower every student. It doesn't say some students. It doesn't say gender conforming students. It says every student. And what we are encouraging them to do is to achieve academic excellence in a safe, positive and personalized environment. Removing this policy negates the safety and personalization of their learning environment. So I strongly urge you to keep this policy  and then review with legal counsel any potential ramifications in federal funding. We have time, and I think complying in advance sends the wrong message and is against our mission as an saw. Thank you so much.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[16409-39] Hope Damon | State Representative (Sullivan District 8); public commenter | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening everybody. Thank you, board for your work. I'm hoping to State Representative Hope Damon serving the nine towns of Sullivan district eight. I'm also a vigorous ally for all people who ever they may be. And for safety for kids.  And I will also reinforce that process really matters. So  I  am cautiously optimistic that this wise board will appreciate that the process so far is extremely incomplete,  and will hopefully make a motion later this evening to table this and get legal advice and really work on how do we keep our kids safe and be fiscally responsible, because what's happening right now is neither safe nor, frankly, fiscally responsible because wide open to legal consequences.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Is there anyone else from the community who would like to speak?

[16409-45] Wayne Hemingway | State Representative (Ward 1 resident); public commenter | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: If they want to wait until the end of the day.
TEXT> How are you doing? I'm Wayne Hemingway, state rep, district eight,  Claremont Cordon.  I'm also in Ward one.  I have a child in middle school. I. Read the policy, and we say justice for all. I know I probably won't get an applause, but I leave. But,  we have to look at the other side of the coin. Where is. Where is the justice for the non trans?  I have nothing against any trans or any,  gay or LGBTQ person. I will talk to you just as any other person. I will respect your opinions,  however, and I have questions about the policy, which I'll leave that to when the policy comes up. But there are there are provisions in there that do not protect everyone that goes to those schools. When you allow a male into a female bathroom, without the separations and the abilities to give them privacy, as the policy says, then we are putting our children in a position  where they could be harmed.  Do we not have privacy and doors in our bathrooms? If single person use bathroom in our houses, then why  do we not allow that in the schools?
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: I have no problem with any any person. I just want protection and justice for all and the fair treatment for everyone. And when we allow this, we are not

[16409-59] Rebecca MacKenzie | Public commenter, Ward 2 (sentence continuation; diarizer split) | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else in the audience that would like to speak? Yes. My name is Rebecca McKenzie. I live in.
TEXT> Ward two. And, I just found out about this. I've been taking a news vacation  recently, and it's been helpful.  I,  resonate. With what. Wayne Hemingway said in that every child needs to feel safe. And I, I really appreciate. That that. Mission statement there, because I think that that is a statement that echoes that sentiment, that every child should feel safe. And I ask you not to rescind that policy, but if you need to review it. Okay.  That's good. They should be reviewed every once in a while. So  as a mental health professional.  The mental health of all our children, especially our most vulnerable. I need your support. Claremont, CA you six does a y s, survey every few years, and the data in that survey  for saw six demonstrates a very clearly that there are children in our school, especially those with different identities, that do not feel safe and that do contemplate suicide. So, I think that's really important that you look at that data and when you're deciding about this policy, please keep that in mind.
NEXT> Rebecca MacKenzie: As a Christian and as a member of Quaker City Unity Friends meeting. We just passed a policy to support LGBTQ. I a plus members of our community that they

[16409-66] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Unidentified: You can't hear you.
TEXT> So it's super. I feel that it is my responsibility to to ensure that all students will be provided with a safe and learning environment, free from bullying and harassment. As educators, we have a legal and moral responsibility to ensure the safety and well-being of every student while they are in our care. Schools are just not a place for learning their environments where children must feel protected, supported and respected. In the Claremont School District. The safety, dignity and equitable treatment of every student remain at highest priority. If the policy j, B, a, b is tabled, removed or rescinded. We want to assure the community that a robust framework of existing policies and procedures will continue to protect the students. And I think this is the important part. So we all know what's what's still out there. These policies are followed. We have the nondiscrimination, equal opportunity harassment and sexual harassment of all students. Student discrimination and harassment, complaint procedures. People safety and violence prevention and pupil safety and violence prevention procedures. Collectively, these policies create a comprehensive safety net that protects all students regardless of their identity. We remain steadfast in our commitment to fostering a inclusive, supportive, and secure educational environment for every member of our school community. It also be stated that under state law, the district has designated a title nine co-ordinator that investigates, documents all complaints and makes the determination for any such harassment of or hazing. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I need a motion to move into nonpublic session.

[16409-138] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: The amendment fails. Excuse me? The motion for the amendment fails. Miss Crawford.
TEXT> I would like to say that I support what you're saying, Lauren, because that's where I was until I read the response from our attorney. I, I was there half an hour ago. That I did not want to take any action until a policy, until the, the attorney and our policy committee could review this policy. However, in light of the directive by the school board attorney to, say that enforcement will be suspended. I understand that.  And so I accept that recommendation from the school board attorney.  However, my biggest my biggest concern is I want to make sure these kids feel protected and supported. And I, I, I have talked to the attorney also, and he assures me that this wording is appropriate.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.

[16409-160] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: I want to be clear that the motion is still on the table, as you originally stated. Right. Okay. All right. Is there any more comments or questions or discussion related to.
TEXT> Maybe make an amendment, to remove that specific portion of the bed policy for the parental rights right now? I know it's a no, but we're worried about noncompliance. I think there are many other portions that can stay in place and protect our students if we need to be in compliance with that. And then further, I still  am not clear on what our noncompliance means for our funding in the schools and how immediate that would result.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So what are your primary concerns like, Jen? Genuinely, what what what do you foresee happening in the school if this if the enforcement of this policy was suspended for

[16409-161] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Loren Howard: other portions that can stay in place and protect our students if we need to be in compliance with that. And then further, I still am not clear on what our noncompliance means for our funding in the schools and how immediate that would result.
TEXT> So what are your primary concerns like, Jen? Genuinely, what what what do you foresee happening in the school if this if the enforcement of this policy was suspended for legal reasons  that  are not, protected by other policies that we have related to discrimination based on, sex, race, sexual orientation, gender identity. So there are a multitude of robust policies  that currently offer very specific protections. And in conversation with the New Hampshire School Board Association, I found out we were one of we were one of only 15 districts that actually have has a specific policy related to transgender and nonconforming youth. Most districts manage from the communication that I've heard, most districts have been managing these students with internal structures such as, folks in the administrative team that develop plans for these kids. Quite frankly, on an effort to provide them privacy. And so we are the exception and not the rule as it relates to the number. And we have been able and other school districts have been able to provide a safe environment for their transgender and non-conforming students. Miss Crawford.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I think we've had this policy on the books for over ten years. And, and so it hasn't been debated over the past ten years whether we've had six other

[16409-175] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: To suspend enforcement of.
TEXT> Its suspend enforcement. And there are other policies in place that protect the children, regardless of the enforcement of this policy. I'm not I am the the motion does not say to rescind this policy. It's to table the policy and it's the reinforcement of the policy. And I have been assured that other policies are in place to protect the children.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Is there any further, debate from the board? We'll now open for individuals who did not speak. Everybody gets to speak once. So if you spoke before, no speaking now

[16409-180] Ken Lownie | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> My name is Ken Louny. I'm Ward two. Thank you guys for everything you do. Both sides appreciate it. It's been interesting listening to it all, trying to figure it out. The problem that I see is that a decision to suspend. Sounds logical. It's a compromise. But, it won't have that effect the way it will be announced, as was said, that tomorrow will be that this board backed off from something from some protections it had in place that it came, said a word past tense of succumb.  It, sir, came to the bullying of an administrative executive order. That's the reality. It will have that effect. I really appreciate what you're trying to do. I'm sorry. Candace. Miss Crawford, it's just that little piece of rescinding the enforcement of it. That's the headline that will come out of this, and we'll have a chilling effect on the kids, and that's what they're going to hear. So I don't think it's it's a great solution. Listen, bullies are bullies and they have to be challenged. And it's time for you guys to stand up to a bully. It's as simple as that. And the only other thing I would add is we've all got a job. Just love the kids, just love the kids. And these kids are going to hear that. Let's love them instead.
NEXT> Ken Lownie: Not tomorrow. Have them say they don't love us. They don't care about us. I know that's not the intent, but that's what they'll hear. Love the kids and keep

[16409-181] Ken Lownie | Public commenter, Ward 2 | 2025-03-19
PREV> Ken Lownie: to stand up to a bully. It's as simple as that. And the only other thing I would add is we've all got a job. Just love the kids, just love the kids. And these kids are going to hear that. Let's love them instead.
TEXT> Not tomorrow. Have them say they don't love us. They don't care about us. I know that's not the intent, but that's what they'll hear. Love the kids and keep them safe, that's all.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[16409-183] Matt Mooshian | Public commenter, Ward 3; former at-large City Councilor | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Thank you very much for your time. My name is Matt and I live in Ward three. I'm a former at large city councilor here in Clermont.  I'm also very proudly part of the team that founded Roll Outright and brought one of the first pride celebrations to the Upper Valley. And I do believe that those things were instrumental in creating the culture that you spoke of, of supporting and affirming our transgender and gender non-conforming and the entire LGBT community. But what I would say is that policies like this are still necessary for maintaining their safety and their well-being. And I would reiterate comments that were made earlier about the risk that these students are already at. And I would remind you that 28% of transgender students in New Hampshire attempted suicide. So I do want you to think for a moment about the students that will be going to school tomorrow and will know that their school board was comfortable sacrificing their safety and well-being for some Partizan game, because people are doing exactly that, trying to villainous them and get you to play into it.
NEXT> Matt Mooshian: You need to be strong. You need to stand with your students, and you need to support every single one of them. Do not buy into to some fear mongering

[16409-184] Matt Mooshian | Public commenter, Ward 3; former at-large City Councilor | 2025-03-19
PREV> Matt Mooshian: about the students that will be going to school tomorrow and will know that their school board was comfortable sacrificing their safety and well-being for some Partizan game, because people are doing exactly that, trying to villainous them and get you to play into it.
TEXT> You need to be strong. You need to stand with your students, and you need to support every single one of them. Do not buy into to some fear mongering scare tactics that are being drummed up. I do appreciate the the attempt to try and work around something like this. Quite frankly, what everyone has said about suspending this, the message that will be sent to students is far more detrimental than anything you are going to preserve or save tonight, or you think you're going to preserve and save tonight. The question you need to ask yourself is, are you willing to stand up for these students? And you need to answer that. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Is there anyone else in the audience that would like to speak?

[16409-241] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: We're going to maintain. Order. Please respect for everybody. Thank you. Yes.
TEXT> I would just like to make a comment that it says a case by case basis. And if a six foot three trans woman was really that threatening to women, then it would be a case by case basis where we would figure out what is best for that student to be separated from those students. So everyone felt safe.  Your concern of a male in the locker room is something that would happen with or without a policy. If a male is predatory, if a female is predatory and wants to enter a space,  they are going to do that without having to be trans, if that makes sense. And then one other brief comment would be there are very masculine women. There are trans men who have full on beards. And I think  we're over, over correcting, because what you're saying now would make it so that a trans male who has a full beard looks like a man would have to use a a female bathroom, which would then create these same sort of threatening issue that you described, whether or not the people in that bathroom are aware of that person's genitals, the fact that
NEXT> Loren Howard: they both may have a vagina could be completely irrelevant because of that person's physique. And I understand that totally. You don't want to be scared when you're in dressing.

[16409-242] Loren Howard | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Loren Howard: a full beard looks like a man would have to use a a female bathroom, which would then create these same sort of threatening issue that you described, whether or not the people in that bathroom are aware of that person's genitals, the fact that
TEXT> they both may have a vagina could be completely irrelevant because of that person's physique. And I understand that totally. You don't want to be scared when you're in dressing. No one wants that. And so, yeah, I don't want you to I personally don't want you to feel dismissed by that. I get people are really emotional about this. But. Right. No one wants to be molested in the locker room. I don't think our policy enables that in in a way that would meaningfully hurt our students. And if it did, we would have had increasingly numbers of reported sexual harassment cases in locker rooms over the last ten years that the policy had been in place. So that's just my comment on your comment.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I understand, and I hear what you're saying, but, my issue really is consent. And so I believe that women have a right to consent to who is who,

[16409-274] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-03-19
PREV> Candace Crawford: Weeks, three months, I yes, I mean, because the policy committee and our attorney has to look at. I'll say three months.
TEXT> Okay. That's just, do we have a second for that? Mr.. Lauren, did you say you wanted a second? It, my only objection to that is that these were fully vetted by the New Hampshire School Board Association. We were received. Received all of these policies in our packet at the prescribed time. Every member of the committee was asked to review these. They were highlighted where there were issues. They were annotated from the New Hampshire School Board Association. So and if we're looking at a three month window, these are policies that are directly linked to discrimination, harassment, that we were willing to lean upon to protect our students prior to that motion. So I'm not sure what changed between this motion and that motion.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: All I'm saying is I'm not a lawyer. I got these policy changes. They weren't vetted by the policy committee. I did not hear anything from our school board attorney.

[16409-336] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (onset of policy presentation) | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: All in favor, say aye. Aye aye. A adopt or move to second read unanimously. Okay.
TEXT> Policy a c. Has references to policy A, c,  A, C and title nine that have been removed, and it has the addition of a reference to  the Boy Scouts of America and title 36 youth groups that have been added to the policy, which are. Things like for H. And Girl Scouts and. Boy Scouts and those kinds of things. And it, gives them access. To, To facilities and, nondiscrimination principles for the protections for nondiscrimination from discrimination.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague, you seem to be making motions tonight.

[16409-367] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-03-19
PREV> Heather Whitney: was. She was happy. She wanted to share the burden. Next item on the agenda is nomination and vote on New Hampshire School Board. Association delegate. Mr. Sprague, if you want to explain to new members what that entails. And might be a good opportunity.
TEXT> I've done this for the last couple of years. And what happens? I think it'll probably happen around tober or so. September. The  various school boards around New Hampshire come up with resolutions that they would, back up in. The Hampshire School Board Association is essentially a lobbying group, and they lobby in Concord on behalf of their membership. And so the purpose of the delegates meeting  is to respond to resolutions that various school boards have come up with and submitted to the whole body of school boards for approval.  If they're approved, then, the New Hampshire School Board of Association will go to Concord and lobby for those, changes or initiatives that the school boards have identified. So there's a process to it.  Obviously when I've gone, I don't go and vote. What I think we we come from census.  The only wrinkle that that happened last year when someone introduced a new resolution, correct, that we had. So I had to abstain on that because I hadn't consulted with the rest of the board. So that process will take place in the fall that the school starts. But it's a day in Concord, a full day in Concord, with all of the other delegates. It's kind of it's not that. But if somebody else wants to do it.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Well.

[16433-7] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; Stevens High School counselor and senior-cla | 2025-04-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
TEXT> Before I do this, I just want to thank you on behalf of the senior class for approving the donation. Myself and my fellow co-director Hillary. Every appreciative I know the kids are as well. They're very excited for the trip. They've asked me 25,000 questions about it this week alone, so they're very excited.  So now I guess this formal thing. Mimi Ryan's Ward one  I'm talking today as a citizen, although, full disclosure, I am the school counselor at Stevens High School, speaking today because I have had a fair amount of people stop me in the grocery store checkout area and express their alarm and disappointment about a recent decision that was made, so I feel the need to be their voice. The closure of the Adult Ed high set program is a decision that I am deeply disappointed in this board for making. I paid close attention during budget season, and never once did I hear the adult Ed was on the chopping block or else trust me, I would have been here way earlier making this speech. This program plays a vital role not only in our school, but in our community.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: As a citizen, I know how closely the high school and the program worked together to help students be successful. And since the graduation rate continues to be a source

[16433-13] Wayne Hemingway | Public commenter, Ward 1; NH State Representative (Claremont) and Clar | 2025-04-02
PREV> Wayne Hemingway: signs are not being used as well as they could be. Currently, the sign at CMS says March 11th. No school now is a voting day. No mention of voting day for school board of Budget. We need to find ways to notify all voters.
TEXT> Voting turnout is poor for the school 15% this year and barely 9% last year. I suggest that we set up a UPC codes that all voters can be formed. What is happening at our schools? Number two, recently, I commented on a social media post about instilling a work ethic in our kids as a responsibilities. This was the post was the teachers were responsible for providing work ethics for our kids. Well, needless to say, I attacked the teachers and our record. I apologize for my comment. However, I do stand by one part of the comment about parents and guardians are responsible for teaching work ethics. This next statement is not me condoning the school to raise our children. We as a community of educators, parents and students have to work together to be successful in life. I am thankful for the many of the teachers felt comfortable to reach out to me and my wife when our kids either acted up or doing well. I am also appreciated to those that stayed engaged over the weekends and nights  that would return emails, our phone calls. That shows commitment. I will finally add the actions and comments of the citizens that would have. The actions and comments of the citizens that be would have.
NEXT> Wayne Hemingway: I just wrote this up. The actions and the commitments of those that attended the March 19th meeting. I would hope that those individuals would show the same commitment to

[16433-28] Lily Clark | Student Board Member (spelling per approved minutes) | 2025-04-02
PREV> Lily Clark: $30 for a spot in the parking lot, and you sell anything you want in that spot, and you get to keep the profit. There's also going to be snacks and drinks and live music. And we are trying to fill the entire parking lot.
TEXT> So if any of you wanted to do it, and then we also have a new principal advisory committee. Doctor Hamilton has created it with the help of Mr. Prescott, where he can gather information and have productive conversations with students in all different parts and places of test with the new information that he finds. He hopes to improve policies and see how we as a collective group can improve. Stevens High School by students for students. As you all know, the senior trip, a bunch of the seniors are really, really excited. They won't stop talking about it all over school. We also had two students of the month, and,  they got to enjoy a breakfast breakfast buffet and congratulate them on their accomplishments. I only know one of the students, Lily, and I don't remember. The second one is we never got that information.  We also have a Puerto Rico trip coming up. On, I'm going on Puerto Rico. We're leaving on Easter morning and for our 6 a.m. flight. And will arrive back on Friday in the early morning. And then prom. The junior class is finishing final details for prom, which we decided decided it was on May 10th, and we're going to hold it from 7 to 11.
NEXT> Lily Clark: We're also holding Grand March at 6:30 p.m., where students will be judged on the way we present ourselves to be voted into Crown Court and from King and Queen

[16433-47] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Mary Henry: for testing, of course I'm going to say yes. This of course impacts cash flow a little bit. But again, I think we're okay currently. But again, there's it's not fun being this position, but it's not because of anything that was within our control.
TEXT> Unfortunately, Special Ed is its own beast. We have to fund it.  And you don't know what you're going to have from year to year for the kids, how much it's going to cost. I mean, we got some really heavy hitters that are not cheap, $300,000 a year. It's their big money. And that does not take long to add up. So,  the other thing is I'm looking at fund balances from the past with the auditors to see where we're at carrying forward. To see how that adds to or takes away from that 1.4 million.  As well. So we're like I said, Mike McCusker and I went over today, all the students we have,  and looked at those to see next year who's going to be coming back, who's not. You know, if someone's graduating out or whatever. But just to make sure that our purchase orders for those out of district placements are correct. And from what I can see right now, they are they may be off by, you know, 100,000 or 200,000.  Just because you never know how it goes by the days. So that could change, too.
NEXT> Mary Henry: And someone could move out of district or someone could move in. So it's it's a it's a very hard fluid. Yeah. It is. And and I know we're not

[16433-80] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-04-02
PREV> Mike McCosker: So there is stuff there. And we're looking at we've got to look at everything.
TEXT> So  a couple of things. One, one thing, When I'm in the kitchen cooking sometimes I got NPR on and they were talking yesterday about,  a program in Brattleboro, called the Inspire School. We have the kids there.
NEXT> Mike McCosker: I cannot answer that question.

[16433-85] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: ongoing concern I have is we're sending kids off because we presume that these very expensive placements that can provide services that we cannot, we can't, but they may be getting worse services there than we would be giving them ourselves. Is my concern okay.
TEXT> Can I just speak to that that second? Absolutely. So, I'm very confident with the schools that we do send our students to, Jessica McCloud, my assistant, spends a lot of time doing site visits, checking the quality of programs that our students are getting. And I'm very confident that we're getting what we pay for with any school that our students are going to.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's helpful.

[16433-87] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2025-04-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's helpful.
TEXT> That's good. So. So my last question is, about because we've we've seen we've received reports from the administration from Special ed, the number of kids in the course in the budget, the number of kids that are going out per school, it's easy to see.  So I'm wondering about consistent processes for, for kids going out of the district. And again, it's been a while since I've been in the schools, and I get it, we've had Covid in the interim.  But I've got to say I worked in the public schools for almost 30 years and I have never, in my experience, seen anything resembling the amount of placements that exists. Now, I think when I was the principal of payments, we might have had 1 or 2 kids maybe. Oh, and these kids were had severe disabilities. They were dangerous kids.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So I, I. Can respond to that. Do we do we have we we have do we have processes in place? We do now. And I think that was part

[16433-98] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's not me. It's all.
TEXT> And everything you say. And you've been here long enough for everything you say is accurate. And it's like many of the many things we've discovered. It's like a lot of the things that we're trying to clean up as the processes and stuff. But, you know, so we we come up with forms we want and, and I know I've been part of, meetings with Michael and Jess and even parents some time saying we're not, you know, we we're not looking at out of district placement until we know that the kids come in the school, that their behavior is not so out of control, that no matter where we send them, we're throwing away money because that's not fate of the taxpayers. So we've already started these conversations. And I think the reason behind starting the academy program is that right now we're sending kids out that aren't high level, they just struggling learners, and we send them out. Now we're in a step where it's like, we don't have to do that. Only ones that, you know, we may have to continue to send out all the ones that really can't meet the needs, like you said, unless it's really high level.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And that's what we're trying to get back to. It's like we're bringing our kids back. And I think we've already brought enough kids back that it's already paid for.

[16433-99] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Chris Pratt: out. Now we're in a step where it's like, we don't have to do that. Only ones that, you know, we may have to continue to send out all the ones that really can't meet the needs, like you said, unless it's really high level.
TEXT> And that's what we're trying to get back to. It's like we're bringing our kids back. And I think we've already brought enough kids back that it's already paid for. Its the program in the building to fold, so that's good. But it's like building the next steps because there aren't processes or procedures in place for this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And it would be like I said, it would be great to see that.

[16433-104] Mike McCosker | Director of Student Services, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Chris Pratt: I don't think anyone felt that way, Frank. No, it's just good conversation and.
TEXT> And and and it's a huge issue. I mean, I, I look at the dollar amount spent on out of district placement. Look, there's no magic crystal one where we're going to. We could bring everybody back. Some of the kids that we have out there needs are. But if I, if I could bring back half of them and have that money to use for special ed programing here, we could move mountains, right. But it's getting everything in place to be able to get there. And that's that's the grind.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That's that's really what we want to hear.

[16433-139] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Great.
TEXT> Does that make one announcement just to the public?  I did call a two hour delay for tomorrow.  The roads are supposed to be. It's supposed to be going back between ice and rain. Ice and sleet and rain. I'm not a meteorologist, so I made the best call I can just to keep the kids safe. So there is a two hour delay tomorrow. I pray to whoever you pray to that this is the last of bad weather for this season. And, Thank you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[16463-38] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2025-04-10
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: When you say you guys, who exactly who if you could the.
TEXT> The board should review those.  Now in the case of having such a big board and Mike, I may be wrong here, but correct me if I'm wrong, but a lot of times they'll vote to have certain number of people come in and sign those vouchers on behalf of the board, instead of having all board members sign the vouchers.
NEXT> Michael Campo: That would be an audit standpoint. The other complexity you guys have is that your board is not necessarily all in the same community, which makes it a little more

[16463-206] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: that in two phases. Like I said, in phase one was connecting with community leaders. So I haven't yet at this point talked to any parents yet. I connected with local businesses, business leaders, nonprofits, a couple of faith organizations, and I did some interviews.
TEXT> I just kind of went around the city interviewing people who work directly with parents and families.  And I asked questions about what were the struggles they were seeing. Parents and families kind of come into their organizations with, and what were some of the strengths they were seeing? This ultimately got me in front of Chris Pratt, where we got to talk at length about, the different needs of, of of the families that attend school here. And with Chris's help, I was able to send out an email  or, sorry, a Google form survey to the educators that are working directly with these kids and with these parents. And so after we did that, after that email went out, I was able to get some a response rate of about. It was sub 100. So maybe 8080 teachers, including the, the organization leaders that I connected with. And because this wasn't necessarily a scientific inquiry. I also on this slide, just  a disclaimer with some limitations. You know, the the survey was self-selecting. So, you know, there's going to be some bias based on who had the time and who was interested to respond.  And then, you know, the number of responses, certainly I didn't get a hold of everybody reached out to which will inject some of his own bias.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: But, but nonetheless, I think I learned some pretty interesting things from the leaders, which you'll see later will kind of contrast a little bit with, what I learned from

[16463-207] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: there's going to be some bias based on who had the time and who was interested to respond. And then, you know, the number of responses, certainly I didn't get a hold of everybody reached out to which will inject some of his own bias.
TEXT> But, but nonetheless, I think I learned some pretty interesting things from the leaders, which you'll see later will kind of contrast a little bit with, what I learned from families. But on that next slide.  I have a chart that kind of shows, for the most part, the three biggest struggles that that we are seeing as people who work with families  were pretty intuitive, and we could have guessed some of these, but we're seeing financial struggles as the biggest one. That's those of us who work with families. We're seeing a lot of people with a need for financial resources in one form or another.  Certainly not every answer that fell into my financial resources category was the same. But for the sake of looking at the data, you know, anything that mentioned money, bills,  rent, taxes, that was all finances. And then the next biggest one was demand for resources, which again, is pretty intuitive. People need money, you may need things.  And so, you know, we kind of expected that or I should say I, I'm a my program is a one man show. I say we because it sounds professional but yes the world we but we expect that right.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: So we expect people need money, people need resources. And then there was other which could have been anything. You know, a lot of that stuff was one offs. One

[16463-208] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: money, you may need things. And so, you know, we kind of expected that or I should say I, I'm a my program is a one man show. I say we because it sounds professional but yes the world we but we expect that right.
TEXT> So we expect people need money, people need resources. And then there was other which could have been anything. You know, a lot of that stuff was one offs. One thing that comes to mind for the sake of presenting here was there were a couple instances of people reporting safety. You know, families are concerned about safety or those of us who work with families are hearing about safety from parents. So again, not world shattering. We kind of expected some of those things. I break this down a little bit more before I look at what I learned from parents.  Because like I said, I think it will paint an interesting contrast, what we think we're seeing and what parents are reporting.  On the next slide, I break down a little bit. You know, those financial need  a lot of that's taxes a lot of that's rent.  The second highest, need was just cost of living.  Which, you know, I don't need to break down what's right in front of you. I, you know, it's all pretty intuitive. You know, we're seeing people need money, and we're seeing people need, things.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: And then the next slide, which I think lends itself to the validity of what we're hearing. You know, I asked the same question a different way. So so we're

[16463-213] Matthew Fortier | Strengthening Families Program Coordinator, TLC Family Resource Center | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: bias. We had more than half percent or more than 50% of the responses were were fathers, which which I don't know what the takeaway is from that, other than it was interesting to see because I expected it to be the other way around.
TEXT> I expected mothers to be, the predominant, you know, demographic responding and then fathers, you know, we had aunts and uncles were next and then grandparents and there were some other people who identified as guardians in one way or another.  And so this is all to say that I felt pretty good about who we were hearing from. You know, we were hearing mostly from the, the parents and then people who obviously work closely with the kids. Next slide. This this is where, me and my role specifically to work with parents  and and as part of TLC,  I got really excited because, the four most frequent,  things that were reported as a, as a primary struggle. Was obviously finances was a big one. But we're, we as people who work with families where we had predicted the second most, you know, we thought people were going to ask for, for resources or resource navigation. The second most frequent reported struggle is parenting, which is perfect for me because that's what I'm here to support parents to do and to to become more confident in. And and that that struck me as,  meaningful, especially because the next two.
NEXT> Matthew Fortier: The next two struggles after that were which were close, but health care and work. And so they other than the finances which is intuitive and we all kind of

[16463-250] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board Member; SAU 6 Board Chair (elected at this meet | 2025-04-10
PREV> Matthew Fortier: If you show up. You're welcome to have pizza and talk to me.
TEXT> I wonder about the principals being a conduit to have these kinds of things happen not only at PTA meetings, but PTO meetings, but at other opportunities where they know their families and they can bring parents together with the kids. And maybe high school students can get involved.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah, there's a lot of opportunities. That's why he continues to grow. I said, you know, I want to support him on the way we can to to get the

[16477-6] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: You can take it out. Bring it with you.
TEXT> It's okay. You can see me. So. Good evening. Members of the school board. I'm Michelle Harrington, the assistant director at SRVRTC. I'm here today to request an approval and acceptance of a grant. I wrote for $44,300 from the New Hampshire Department of Ed. This grant will fund an implementation of an Icy certification, which is an industry recognized credential in screen printing for  for the students at the Tech Center. Each CTE program needs to have an Iraq attached to the program  for it to be credited for the state. The more I ask is, the better. So for plumbing and carpentry, they have OSHA ten.  For  culinary they have surf saved. So for the entrepreneurship program, they could get the screen printing. I ask with the program.  This initiative is crucial, is a crucial component of our revitalized,  revitalized entrepreneurship program centered around launching a student run pop up store right here at the Tech. This store will provide students with invaluable hands on experience with all aspects of business from design, products, marketing, and sales. The recent approval of the new screen printing system will pave the way for students to design, produce and distribute their own merchandise. This grant will provide the necessary resources to fully develop this vision. The grant includes  all the comprehensive equipment supplies to support the entire screen printing process.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: So on the flier, if you look that six bay screen printing machine, that is the exact one that will be getting the dryer is on there, that's the exact

[16477-7] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: new screen printing system will pave the way for students to design, produce and distribute their own merchandise. This grant will provide the necessary resources to fully develop this vision. The grant includes all the comprehensive equipment supplies to support the entire screen printing process.
TEXT> So on the flier, if you look that six bay screen printing  machine, that is the exact one that will be getting the dryer is on there, that's the exact one will be getting,  and then kind of what screen printing is, is almost, you know, you'll see it, the screens on the bottom. So all of the stuff that we would need,  we will, we will get and then professional development for the new teacher. They will be going to Pennsylvania for three days to get the exact training that they need to be able to teach the students how to run the screen printing machine.  And my favorite part of the grant is a $7,000,  merchandise,  kind of stock that we can support the store and provide students with essential practices.  To be able to have materials, to be able to have, you know, sweatshirts and stuff. This project addresses a significant need with our student body. Many students, families,  students and families face financial burdens of purchasing school store items or the lack of access to Stevens School Pride apparel. I have talked to many seniors this year who don't own one Stevens High School T-shirt sweatshirt.  And do feel part of something. You kind of need to have that sweatshirt.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: By empowering students to create and sell and take pride in this merchandise. We're not only fostering entrepreneurship skills, but we are promoting school spirit and accessibility for all. Accepting

[16477-18] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-04-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: But you wear that, you know, with pride and you're like, yeah.
TEXT> And the kids should have it.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: Yes. And a lot of times, like, you get this bulk order. Say you're on a sports team and you have to order all at once. And when the sweatshirts

[16477-27] Michelle Herrington | Assistant Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (SRVR | 2025-04-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah. What I like about it. It takes it from the theoretical to the to the practical application. Yes. Doing something. Running. Actually running a business.
TEXT> And if you look at it, I can show you guys the classroom now.  You know, it's just there's really nothing in there. So it's nice to kind of see,  the carpentry department is building the counter, you know, so when you walk in the counters there, they're going to build the shelving.  So it's going to be really like a, a  really, you know, instrumental part at the tech center. So and the kids, when they come into the store, they'll be able to see the screen printer because they'll almost be in the same spot, but they won't be able to touch anything, but they'll still be able to be like, oh, is that how they make it and stuff like that?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Madden?

[16477-42] Unidentified | Program-pedagogy remark during grant Q&A (voice uncertain - likely pre | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mary Henry: you have multiple activities in a fund or in a bank account, you keep a spreadsheet saying what goes to what, what revenues, what expenditures, so that the auditors, when they come in, they can see what you spent and make sure it's for them.
TEXT> It's for the students. So learn how to run a successful business.
NEXT> William 'Bill' Madden: That's that's. Why I was asking.

[16477-57] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 (onset clipped into neighboring cluster) | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Next item on the agenda is the superintendent's report, Mr. Pratt.
TEXT> Yes. Good evening everybody.  So I'm just going to highlight a few areas of the superintendent report, like, always encapsulates all the schools and what's going on in the schools from attendance to activities.  So you're already here? Miss Harrington, talk a lot about, the grant that she has for the SRB, T.C.. But I also wanted to add a few highlights to that is that the eighth graders did visit the tech center to see all the options when picking classes for next year. So we've she's done a great job up in that and getting more exposure to the middle school students, because I know that's something that the community and the board wanted.  Moving forward is how we can get eighth graders more involved in the tech center. Also, is that,  as most of you know,  she started a student of the month breakfast. And for some of us who were there for the first one, we probably had maybe a total of four, people there, including the students. And now,  as of the last breakfast on, we had over 40 people showed up. So I  want to thank her for that because that just went from 0 to 100 in such a short time. It's a wonderful time for the kids to be recognized and and have some food and,  you know, they appreciate it. And I appreciate Mrs. Harrington, you know, building that as she has in such a short time. Moving on to.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: The high school. Some of the professional development that's coming up is that the training will be later this month, in April. And that's, that that training there will be

[16477-91] Jay Doherty | Principal, Lavallee Brensinger Architects (SRVRTC renovation feasibili | 2025-04-16
PREV> Jay Doherty: happening and what's happening with funding and trying to keep our our pulse on that. So as as funding becomes available, we want to make sure you're in the queue for that. That will come up in a little bit as we talk about that.
TEXT> Your center.  We've spent a lot of time looking at your building.  No. That's fine. Julie.  Looking at your building, we put together a schedule of how we how the feasibility study happens here. So we start with a kickoff meeting. I probably shouldn't walk too far from the microphone here. We start with a kickoff meeting, and then we look at your existing conditions. We've spent a lot of time looking at your building, going through your building and understanding what you have as an asset right here, right now. From that, we were able to come up with lab designs or space designs looking at how your programs are being used right now, what would bring those programs up to, industry standards and looking into the future of some small adjustments that could be made to those programs for the students in those spaces? There are several lab prototypes Julie has worked on with each of the staff individually, each of the teachers. And that's also been brought to the PACs, the the the program advisory groups for get input from the industry professionals who are actually  in the industry every day to bounce some of these pieces off them. So as we look at your facility, we want to understand and make sure we're we're making it to help these students as they move into the real world.
NEXT> Jay Doherty: That's gone into a bunch of options. We presented options to try to understand, the best way to to use your space and to and to do additions, renovations and

[16477-105] Julie Spence | Project Architect, Lavallee Brensinger Architects (SRVRTC renovation f | 2025-04-16
PREV> Julie Spence: could really showcase that the front door and people would be able to see it. And it's a little bit downsize from what they have upstairs, but I think that it's appropriate to downsize a little bit. It's probably a little too generous right now.
TEXT> Culinary. They only they don't have enough student workstations to be able to have  all their kids at the workstations. It's very crowded right now. So we're talking about adding to  a student workstations and updating some of their kitchen equipment. Some of their kitchen equipment is original, 30 years old or and some some of the equipment does last that long, but some of it is outdated and needs to be replaced. And we're also talking about updating and renovating the restaurant. Make it more of a draw for the community,  adding a partition so we could close off the classroom, and then the other side of the space of the restaurant could be used even when the kids were in class, and then access for evening events  and the restrooms I talked about, which we'll see a little bit later. Machine tool would really like to update their program by replacing what they have as a grinding room, replacing that with a more up to date 3D printing, 3D more engineering, more high tech kind of room, and kind of retire the grinding room because it's not really relevant to their park is saying that's not really teaching them what they need to know to get out into the workforce.
NEXT> Julie Spence: Updating some finishes, retiring some older equipment and bringing in some new carpentry was originally designed as a building construction, which is why they have a huge overhead door. They

[16477-123] Candace Crawford | School Board Member (sentence onset clipped into neighboring cluster) | 2025-04-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: I just want to make sure it was out there so people are like, yeah, oh.
TEXT> I. Just like to thank the group, Michelle and the architects. This I think that the public needs to realize that this has been a year long process, and it didn't just happen all of a sudden. I think it's important for folks to see that this this firm does,  this analysis and this work for CTE centers all over the state. So, so it's it's in their wheelhouse. That's what they do. And another thing is, that this builds on the research that was done by s  last year in analyzing our current programs. And,  it's very logical, the programs that they've come up that Michelle has worked with. What are the programs that would be added to the tech center? What fits into reality of the needs of the community for the kids to graduate and get jobs? And, and that that was part of the planning of the whole thing.  The third thing is the building is 32, 33 years old, and things have changed over 33 years. And how we use how we provide CTE programs,  to our students. And this is better reflective of that situation. The fourth thing is, I think that Michelle and this group has done a great job involving the, the the,
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: The program.

[16477-136] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: That a moderate.
TEXT> What we saw, this is what makes what's logical. What are the programs that make the most sense for our students? How can we incorporate them into the building? What upgrades do we need to have for the building to make it usable, and what additions do we have to make to offer the programs that make sense for the community? And this is this is iteration number one.  And any project is going to have several iterations and there can be lots of discussion. But I don't think we did not see this as the Cadillac version.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: You didn't.

[16477-164] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: just did it. So it's really nice for them to be so close to say, how did you do it? How did it? How did it work out? And they had students in there and they just they kind of went through the same thing.
TEXT> And and I know, I know, it's very doable while schools in session because I think this will probably be at least the fifth school project or renovation or construction project that I've been involved in. So it is very doable.  But like you said, if you put the safety of the kids first and so you can set of going this way, now you're going to have to go this way. You know, this program is being renovated. So so you come up with all those things and there's always a you know, I did it's a very fluid process.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Right, Mr. Sprague?

[16477-180] John Lambert | Public commenter, Charlestown; Visioning Committee member (public comm | 2025-04-16
PREV> John Lambert: giving the awareness and reasoning and just don't blindside them month before. It's a big selling job, and that's what really helped that one pass in Newport. And, you know, some wealthy people stepped up and made some larger contributions to help make it come.
TEXT> You also got to tell them it's about the repairs in the building that's going to be needed that are now 80% cover. And that was a big portion of that recall. We also missed some funding for the high school when we delayed  our opportunity there. Don't let that happen again here. This community needs a tech. It needs the tech for the students, for the citizens, for the citizens. You're doing it now. We're partnering with makerspace and doing some adult retraining programs.  We need it for the businesses. They need the workforce. They're not going to move into a town if we don't have people that are employable. And the students to get good paying jobs and have higher family income in our community. So it's a win win. I know it's expensive. It's going to be a tough selling job, but it's the benefit is like is like the t shirt program. It's going to pay for itself. So thank you for considering that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Great.

[16477-186] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: little, little distressing. And then we have bracelets below grade level much higher than beginning of the year, much lower at the middle. So we're moving kids from below grade level up to that on grade level section, but they're not quite up to speed.
TEXT> They're. Does that make sense? So here's our students beginning of the year. Yeah. Test. We have fewer below grade level in the mid-year. This is a little bit backwards where we have more beginning of the other less. But we've moved these students to the higher levels.  They're just not all the way there yet.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So still below grade level.

[16477-201] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you for that.
TEXT> She did the data work? Yeah. So these. Are percent. So we have 5%. Oh so 100% of those last. Two okay. Got it. And beyond. Yeah. And then math we have the it's reversal. Just these laser. These are our students below grade level. This is not an encouraging picture  on grade level. And then above.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So so I just want to make sure I understand that. What. So if the sixth grade level at the beginning of the year there were 85% below grade. And

[16477-203] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: So so I just want to make sure I understand that. What. So if the sixth grade level at the beginning of the year there were 85% below grade. And at the midpoint there are 96% below grade.
TEXT> 96% of our students in the sixth grade are performing below the expected level at the midyear point.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes.

[16477-216] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Know.
TEXT> But, but the big change was that it lines up with each math standard at each grade level.  And so we give our students a better chance, but we're also holding them to a higher standard at the same time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But these are all kids that did not have the benefit of the program. That's not an excuse, right? But what I guess what I'm saying is that just so

[16477-217] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: But, but the big change was that it lines up with each math standard at each grade level. And so we give our students a better chance, but we're also holding them to a higher standard at the same time.
TEXT> But these are all kids that did not have the benefit of the program. That's not an excuse, right? But what I guess what I'm saying is that just so the public knows and the board is reminded that we didn't have any program right in place. And so these kids are basically showing us the lack of program that the district has had for ten years.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: For too long.

[16477-225] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: like last year. Yeah. And, it really is different. I mean, from what I recall, I kind of like this. Almost like, more like, really thinking problem as opposed to. So it's a combination of reading and right, pulling the formation out of what you're.
TEXT> Because you can go to Google right now, put it in any algebra two equation and get a full print out of how to solve it. Right. Great. And our students can do that. And and they haven't learned anything. And so we have to present them with a problem where they apply that knowledge because that problem isn't on the internet. Right. Right, right.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that so that leads to my, my, what I, what I would like to see, I the pie graphs showed a lot of it is what they're doing. Yes.

[16477-250] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Oh. Thank you. Okay.
TEXT> Got it. And so I really, for the first time, teachers are introducing students to practice test questions. We this is a full practice test. We're expecting to see students show a better state score this spring because they've had more exposure. They know how the test works. They know where the questions are, like, you know, the format. Way to go, way to find information, all those kinds of things. We're also and this may sound silly, but there has to be a reason for the students to try. And so we've asked each of the principals to implement some kind of an incentive program. And what we're getting is more attention to the test.  Don't know is we have greater results yet, but we at least have students taking their time, paying more attention to what they're doing instead of just clicking through because it's not part of a grade. It's not that we need to give the students a reason to do things. Yeah. I mean, so one of the teachers is giving out raffle tickets every time a teacher is a student's caught, quote unquote, paying attention and trying hard doing the the test practice. And it's a big deal. The elementary school. So it's really improved the attention to what the students are doing. So we expect that to show some results for us. Here's the fourth grade results and same same setup.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Interesting.

[16477-252] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Interesting.
TEXT> And then fifth grade results. So we're still at a point where half of our kids are below grade level each grade. And we're just hoping to chip away at that. Year by year, and, state wide. Before you get to two discouraged statewide it's about 38% below grade level or I'm sorry, 38% proficient. So yellow and green. So on this test, very few schools have 70% of their students scoring professions. That's just as a relative measuring point.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So the kids are going to be taking the spring test in soon.

[16477-253] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: state wide. Before you get to two discouraged statewide it's about 38% below grade level or I'm sorry, 38% proficient. So yellow and green. So on this test, very few schools have 70% of their students scoring professions. That's just as a relative measuring point.
TEXT> So the kids are going to be taking the spring test in soon.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Yes.

[16477-301] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: We have a middle school. Yes.
TEXT> All right.  I haven't heard of this for the high schools.  And my big thing is that the first person responsible for the education of their student is the parent. How do how did the parents find out about this. And.
NEXT> Mike Koski: I don't think yeah. It's not really a program for individual students or for parents. It's really to improve instruction among the teachers.

[16477-333] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: over 20 years of functioning strategic plan. And now we are in the implementation phase. So there are multiple subcommittees that are actively engaged. Some of these subcommittees have board members that are often able to attend and participate. But it's largely a leadership initiative.
TEXT> Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. So,  what I wanted to is just go back a little bit, like. Like Miss Whitney said, is that last year we spent a lot of time last year on creating our strategic plan. We had a lot of subcommittees. There were a lot of people involved. But knowing that having the strategic plan, we're only halfway there. So we kept DMG on to help us with the phase two, which is the implementation, our strategic plan. And so with that, you know, we've been doing a lot of work with subcommittees. So I wanted to talk to you as like what the subcommittees are, who's on the subcommittee and what we've been doing. Since I would say probably October and where we are now. So this is the first subcommittee we have, which is based on student outcomes. And it because a home, you really can't see it. We will ensure that each and every student reaches and exceeds expected academic outcomes by focusing on early literacy and numeracy and raising graduation rates. So you can see within that we have a lot of the, you know, how is it going to be measured.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And so it gives the, the the percentage for K-2. It's really focused on the early elementary because we all agreed go looking at the strategic plan. The earlier we

[16477-335] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: have it in place? So this subcommittee, it's a little less, but it's a it's well represented in these subcommittees where we put together based on we wanted a well-rounded subcommittee who can really add to the conversation, add to what we need to do.
TEXT> So you have on here you have the director of human resources, elementary principal, a board member, give a teacher leader in the high school, which is assistant, the current assistant principal, Mr. Elliott. You have someone from the elementary school, and you also have someone from the middle school. The next area that we had focusing on on the strategic plan was student well-being. And that is you will ensure that all students have the holistic supports. They need to feel a sense of pride and belonging in school to experience success. And then you have how you know below that this is how we're going to measure that. For example, decrease the percentage of students who are chronically absent. Decrease the number of bullying harassment investigations. So on this committee, you see that we have the director of student services, the high school principal, the middle school principal, a social worker, the truancy officer, a parent and student service coordinator. The next subcommittee, we have family and community engagement. SEO six will provide consistent and meaningful outreach to families and the community in order to cultivate a two way relationship of trust and collaboration. And one of the ways that we'll be measuring this is, for example, increase the percentage of families and caregivers responding positively to survey questions on receiving consistent communication from the district school.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And so on. This we have the lead is, one of our social workers. We have a board member. We have, the tech center director of principal. We have a

[16477-339] Chris Pratt | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2025-04-16
PREV> Mike Koski: It's probably not logged in.
TEXT> So so I was going to share some of the survey questions. So what these subcommittees did  over the past few weeks is that we met and we created what questions do we want to ask in surveys for the for the community, for the parents, for the teachers, for for the students. And so these surveys went out once the committee and we're talking about each committee  that we went over. Worked quite diligently on having questions that represent, what we want to know moving forward, that strategic plan. So today, so as of April 16th, the student survey, we already have 523  participants taking that survey with a slow uptick in elementary participation staff surveys. We're only at 28 responses still all from Claremont Middle School. So we're going to so that's telling us we want to push those out again to make sure we're getting equal representation. And with with the way we're doing it, we can keep pushing out as many times we want until we get, you know, a percentage of people responding. And then family surveys 89 responses with increase in variations in school representation. So with this said, it's only been out for a few days. I think we sent it out over the weekend and Saturday. So it always been out there for a short time. What does this telling us is that?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Students are really voicing and taking the time to take the survey, and that's huge for us. If we if we wanted any group to really be responding, it's students

[16477-346] Arlene Hawkins | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2025-04-16
PREV> Chris Pratt: the questions that we asked, rather than just saying, well, we think this is a this is a good action. Remember, we always want this to be, you know, measure everything needs to be measurable. If it's not measurable, it's really hard to move forward.
TEXT> So if to add to what you're saying rather than using anecdotal data, oh, we have kids who are feeling this way. This is what they're telling us. We're actually getting those survey questions that the students will respond and will have that hard information. One of the things that I was impressed with, I'm very impressed with the group that's coming that has been working with us. They they have an ability to synthesize all the information that we are discussing, putting it together, and then they bring it back to a core group so that each member of that core group went through every survey question and provided input and provided the opportunity to say, okay, I'm looking at it through the lens of a parent. I don't understand what this means. Ken, would this be clarified? I'm on the Student Outcomes subcommittee, and we're the only one that doesn't have to do a survey. We're already using benchmark data that we have, and we're looking at how do we lessen the gap between our population of students who don't have special needs and our population of students who do? And how do we make that work? And so there's a definite direction to the work that's being done. And it's not just sitting there talking among a group of people. It's reaching out. It's reaching out to classroom teachers. It's reaching out to parents and to staff and actually getting information.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Miss Crawford, was your experience been on your subcommittee?

[16477-490] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-04-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Candy, do you have an update on the, signage?
TEXT> Yes I do. Okay. So, share with me. Asked me to contact the Michelle Harrington at the tech center about them making signs for, the front of the building when we have school board meetings here to direct people so that they can actually get into the building.  And, and I said, Michelle, talk to your students. And this is a test. This is a problem solving task. What would they like to come up? What do they think would be effective? So I got a report from Michelle. And it's it's basically I can circulate this, it's a sign, that they want to have. It's like a sandwich sign with lights on it that are  are run by solar panels. And it would be  in the front of the building directing, directing them to come over to this door that would be unlocked. And there would be a sign out front, and there would be a sign in the parking lot by the T lantern that would direct them out to the back door if necessary.  We thought that the one out front directing to the side building side of the building was better, because there's more parking available there, and they could access through the door right here by the meeting room.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So it's two, sandwich signs, and the signs are about $50 apiece. And the kids, the students at the tech center are making them. And, I just need your approval

[16477-491] Candace Crawford | School Board Member | 2025-04-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: them out to the back door if necessary. We thought that the one out front directing to the side building side of the building was better, because there's more parking available there, and they could access through the door right here by the meeting room.
TEXT> So it's two, sandwich signs, and the signs are about $50 apiece. And the kids, the students at the tech center are making them. And, I just need your approval to go forward with agreeing that this is a good idea.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I'll. I'll donate the money so we don't have to make a motion for that. How's that?

[16530-11] Candace Crawford | School Board Member; SRVRTC Subcommittee Chair, Claremont School Board | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: You can step down from your seat and. Speak.
TEXT> As a school board member. The citizen. I went to the  Disney  arts show yesterday and it was so wonderful. I just want to and I wanted to say it at the beginning of the meeting. So people who are at home and hear this, who might note later. I was just so thrilled to go to that art show. The there were so many parents and kids there, and the artwork was amazing. And,  kudos to the art teacher.  I can't remember her name. And does anybody know her name? The art teacher at the desert school. And,  what she did. Each classroom, she had used a,  a literary reference, had used a book to talk to the kids, to get them to do an art project related to the book. For example, in first grade, she used The  Hungry Caterpillar, and so they did artwork for what their favorite food was, and they did a project on that in another fifth grade, I think it was they there was a story, I don't know what the story was. Ornament appear and the kids did artwork around the word that they had selected, and the art represented the word. It was fantastic. And I was so. I was so proud of the school and the district last night. So I just wanted to say that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. Can I add to her comments? There were three board members there last night and we were all blown away by the art, the commitment by the art

[16530-13] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair, presiding (floor control; diarizer merged pre | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: we were all blown away by the art, the commitment by the art teacher, the students and the families. The place was packed, the parking lot was on overflow. So principal. And the principal? Yes, Mrs. Lewis, they all deserve kudos to all of them.
TEXT> Thank you. Any other citizens for citizens comments? Seeing none are we are closest in comments and move on to the student board member report. Hello, Lily. By yourself.
NEXT> Lily Clark: So as you all know, I went on the Puerto Rico trip. We had a ton of fun, and we learned a lot. Puerto Rico is a really amazing place.

[16530-28] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member, Claremont School Board (presider's 'Any questions | 2025-05-07
PREV> Mary Henry: Thank you.
TEXT> Any questions for Bill? Not a question, but I'd like to point. Out. That I believe. The students and the families of the students paid for the trip to Puerto Rico. It wasn't the taxpayers.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right.

[16530-34] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair, presiding (floor control; diarizer merged pre | 2025-05-07
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: The hard work paid off.
TEXT> Thank you. I remember one is the students. High school, youth and government delegation. Welcome.
NEXT> Jill Chastenay: Hi. I'm Jill, back again. Lily, you make me want to wish I had gone to Puerto Rico now. And you might be able to find something on YouTube and

[16530-35] Jill Chastenay | Youth & Government advisor / teacher, Stevens High School (self-identi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Michael Petrin: Thank you. I remember one is the students. High school, youth and government delegation. Welcome.
TEXT> Hi. I'm Jill, back again. Lily, you make me want to wish I had gone to Puerto Rico now. And  you might be able to find something on YouTube  and not on your Chromebooks.  If you don't mind the the Bill book for this year.  You can pass it around. I've tagged the pages where  our students submitted bills for youth in government. This year.  We had seven students go down to Concord this year, and  they were anywhere from ninth to 12th graders.  They wrote bills about school funding,  changing the minimum wage, laws, protecting women's autonomy.  Dual high school and college and enrollment, creating horse lanes on the highway,  and also mandating having  CPR and a D skills taught in high schools. Unfortunately this year.  Our our bills didn't end up on the floor.  It they might have made it through committee,  but some of the processes at youth and government this year got a little bit slowed down. So we didn't get to hear as many bills make it to the floor. No matter who school it came from, there were over 200 bills submitted this year, so they've definitely increased the amount that they've had in recent years since Covid.
NEXT> Jill Chastenay: We also had more schools participating this year, which was great. The students who went this year. Bryce and Chloe, they served as lobbyists this year, which had a new

[16530-36] Jill Chastenay | Youth & Government advisor / teacher, Stevens High School (self-identi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Jill Chastenay: slowed down. So we didn't get to hear as many bills make it to the floor. No matter who school it came from, there were over 200 bills submitted this year, so they've definitely increased the amount that they've had in recent years since Covid.
TEXT> We also had more schools participating this year, which was great.  The students who went this year.  Bryce and Chloe, they served as lobbyists this year, which had a new program where they had to create a firm and try to get  money. They called it youth and government money. I think I can't remember.  So that if they got a  bill passed that they were lobbying for, they would get money for it. And if it didn't get passed, they wouldn't get as much money.  Carter, Noelle and Sophia all served in the Senate this year. Noel was the  clerk in the Senate, so she did a lot of talking.  And then Aubrey, of course, served as governor, and Mia served in the house.  The cool thing this year is we stole Noelle from Newport Middle High School, and,  she has experience in  making videos and works for CCTV. And  so I convinced her that we needed a highlight reel. And so she took all the pictures that most of us took and the videos that we took, and she put a video together.  I don't know if it can be played. Jeff. Yeah.  We all I also we have Aubrey here. She has a few things to say.
NEXT> Jill Chastenay: And I think Noelle does. I don't know if Carter wants to speak tonight. But I think it's worth watching. The video first is really good. She found a mix

[16530-37] Jill Chastenay | Youth & Government advisor / teacher, Stevens High School (self-identi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Jill Chastenay: all the pictures that most of us took and the videos that we took, and she put a video together. I don't know if it can be played. Jeff. Yeah. We all I also we have Aubrey here. She has a few things to say.
TEXT> And I think Noelle does. I don't know if Carter wants to speak tonight.  But I think it's worth watching. The video first is really good. She found a mix of serious and  fun about youth and government.  And I'm just glad that we have this. So now maybe we can show it as school and get more kids interested.
NEXT> Noelle: Hi. Hi. I. In the community has a lot of great opportunities that people don't realize. And many wonderful things going on at all, all the time. I think it's

[16530-38] Noelle | Stevens High School student, Youth & Government delegation (first name | 2025-05-07
PREV> Jill Chastenay: I think it's worth watching. The video first is really good. She found a mix of serious and fun about youth and government. And I'm just glad that we have this. So now maybe we can show it as school and get more kids interested.
TEXT> Hi. Hi. I. In the community has a lot of great opportunities that people don't realize. And many wonderful things going on at all, all the time. I think it's important to highlight those things.  I'm a junior at Stevens High School, and this is my first year tending Stevens and living in Claremont as I transferred from Newport, where I grew up. Other than CCTV, I participate in extracurriculars at school like youth and government, athletics, National Honor Society and I run the student newspaper, Cardinals Unfolded. I am passionate about storytelling and these people deserve to have theirs told. Stay tuned for this episode of Cardinal Perspective. This morning.
NEXT> Aubrey Herzog: Before I get into updates on the program, I would like to take Ryan Mobile and all the other devices for the holidays today. Happened just one year ago. I

[16530-39] Aubrey Herzog | Stevens High School student; outgoing NH Youth Governor (self-identifi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Noelle: I participate in extracurriculars at school like youth and government, athletics, National Honor Society and I run the student newspaper, Cardinals Unfolded. I am passionate about storytelling and these people deserve to have theirs told. Stay tuned for this episode of Cardinal Perspective. This morning.
TEXT> Before I get into updates on the program, I would like to take Ryan Mobile and all the other devices for the holidays today. Happened just one year ago. I stood before you campaigning and sharing my vision for this year's conference. My focus was centered around the answer. You can connect, advocate, and expand. I'm happy to say that these have been fulfilled and you continue working towards them, just as I promise. Walking you through the building this past week and seeing all your writing and fantastic ideas. And I'm happy to report that we have 119 bills in use this year, all inflecting your dreams, hopes and passions for New Hampshire youth and government has meant so much to me, has meant so much to me for so many years because of because of the building for me and so many students to voice their own opinions and build the community over our shared level government over the course of Youth Covenant. Please feel free to come up to me to talk or Danny about the bills. Are most passionate about your health program or your dreams. Leaving your kitchen. To conclude my opening remarks, I would like to thank you to everyone of you for being civically engaged in and being the best and brightest.
NEXT> Jill Chastenay: I know they show some goofy pictures, but they they are very serious. You should see them when they're in their meetings in committee. It's they care very much about,

[16530-40] Jill Chastenay | Youth & Government advisor / teacher, Stevens High School (self-identi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Aubrey Herzog: talk or Danny about the bills. Are most passionate about your health program or your dreams. Leaving your kitchen. To conclude my opening remarks, I would like to thank you to everyone of you for being civically engaged in and being the best and brightest.
TEXT> I know they show some goofy pictures, but they they are very serious. You should see them when they're in their meetings in committee.  It's they care very much about, you know, making sure that the right bills are getting past and the other ones aren't.  And  our kids are always great about decorum. And they just they have a good time, but they do it in the most positive way. And I know that Aubrey prepared a few words, and I know, I know, I was thinking about it, too.  So I'm going to introduce our governor. Or was Governor Aubrey.
NEXT> Aubrey Herzog: Hello, everyone. My name is Aubrey Herzog, and this year I served as a New Hampshire youth governor. This was honestly an experience of a lifetime because of the opportunities

[16530-41] Aubrey Herzog | Stevens High School student; outgoing NH Youth Governor (self-identifi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Jill Chastenay: they have a good time, but they do it in the most positive way. And I know that Aubrey prepared a few words, and I know, I know, I was thinking about it, too. So I'm going to introduce our governor. Or was Governor Aubrey.
TEXT> Hello, everyone. My name is Aubrey Herzog, and this year I served as a New Hampshire youth governor. This was honestly an experience of a lifetime because of the opportunities it provided me with. This past year, I served as the highest leadership position, and through this role, I got to pass judgment on legislation, speak with delegates, and run a campaign. This year I passed nine bills in vetoed. Four of those bills, some I passed, were preventing cyanobacteria blooms in our state's lakes, making housing more accessible. In a bill that aimed to make foreign language classes more accessible in schools. I also was chosen to go and will attend the Conference of National Affairs as a New Hampshire delegate to discuss national and international proposals and issues. This will take place at App State  in North Carolina, and so I'm very excited for that this summer.  After being elected governor, I spent a week at the Youth Governor's Conference in Washington, D.C.,  learning leadership skills and collaborating with other governors and about improving our programs back home. These experiences were involved invaluable and completely free because of the YMCA.
NEXT> Aubrey Herzog: I'm grateful for the amazing opportunities I have been given through Youth in Government. Miss Chastain and Miss Menard have completely supported me through my four years, and I'm very

[16530-42] Aubrey Herzog | Stevens High School student; outgoing NH Youth Governor (self-identifi | 2025-05-07
PREV> Aubrey Herzog: this summer. After being elected governor, I spent a week at the Youth Governor's Conference in Washington, D.C., learning leadership skills and collaborating with other governors and about improving our programs back home. These experiences were involved invaluable and completely free because of the YMCA.
TEXT> I'm grateful for the amazing opportunities I have been given through Youth in Government. Miss Chastain and Miss Menard have completely supported me through my four years, and I'm very sad that it has come to an end. The chance to practice state government is such an incredible and educational opportunity. I had the chance to meet our state governor this year, and it's just such a wonderful program that every student should be involved in. Not to mention, it's the most fun weekend I've ever had. Thank you for your time today, and I hope other students learn to love using government as much as I do, and I'll pass it over. Noel.
NEXT> Noelle: Okay. Hi, guys. So my name. Is Noel, and I transferred to Stevens this year. I'm a junior, and even though I transferred this year, I've been involved in YAG

