[17201-130] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School | 2026-03-04
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Right.
TEXT> We can't teach them if they're always dismissed 20 minutes early. We can't dismiss them if they're always 40 minutes late. And so again, this is just another,  barrier that we're trying as a school to embrace. And I have to say, in this area, Scott Maple is a gift.  He is all he checks in with us daily to see who who he can be assisting us with, because he understands this more than anyone. The impact of behavior. Here's another source bot. When you have a very disruptive student in the classroom, it's not just that student who's suffering the learning of all suffers and and without some significant behavior supports in some places  where impacting the learning of all kids. And that's just that's just reality sometimes, but it's a consideration we have to take into account. Lack of team meeting time this year. I would add this year to that, because we don't have our traditional  team time that we've been having, and that's when we have a lot of these conversations about pacing, about assessments, about looking at student work together.  Lack of behavior support we talked about. And then we always have to be mindful.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: And this is not a negative slam at any one of a taught versus learned mindset. Well, I taught that. Why didn't they get it as opposed to they haven't

[17201-135] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (uncertain - merged male cluster; homework questio | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: to look at both. Before we can have proficiency, we have to have progress. And focus and commitment are key. And so how do we maintain that and identify those areas that that deserve that. And I'm happy to excuse me to answer any questions.
TEXT> You mentioned. Homework.  Homework. Used to be my day a few years ago.  Everybody got the same assignment. Is homework now being targeted towards where you're seeing areas of that kids need to make improvements?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I, I'm seeing many, many different approaches to it. And we're playing with many defined kind of where do we see the best bang for our buck, for lack of

[17201-189] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Melissa Lewis: it's not the same person, can say, oh, that's something I can try. So yep, this didn't work. So I started using this approach. And that's where we're really building the toolkits of each other is during those conversations that team times really, really important.
TEXT> I do notice as well that  we should expect that there's a lot of growth in K through one, and then we really seem to stagnate and go kind of nowhere. What and what what's your gut instinct on why that happens? And that kind of leads into my next question is what do you need? Is it more bodies? Is it more time? Is it more targeted professional development? Are you happy with the programs and curriculum that we have right now? Do you think that they meet the needs of our students?
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I would always defer to teachers on that. I'd offer input as well, but teachers should have the most important say there. I will say when you get up to.

[17201-195] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Unidentified speaker: Thank you.
TEXT> Okay, I was asked to keep this to ten minutes. I  had a very. Large item. I had. A very large presentation. Another. Part to it coming. So I have I had. A very large presentation. I've cut it down just to a. Few pages. From what I had. So know. Who you are. I know who I am, and I was listening to the I was listening to carry keeping keep it brief. We'll get to more pieces later. So  so I've got just a few slides to share with you. A lot of what,  Melissa echoed at  we do a lot of the very same things,  but let me just start out I had this all prepared. The work I'm going to share with you tonight represents the work of multiple teams at Maple, including grade level teachers, special educators, specialists  and support staff. I'm like Melissa here. Among the takeaways tonight, I hope it will be evident how much collaboration happens across our school community, in service to our goal of meeting the needs of all of our students. We were asked tonight to share some of our mid-year academic data, but also to give you a window into how we use data to make decisions and shape instruction every day of the school year. Why helping us plan for the future. So,  this first slide,  I cut mine down basically. You see,  these are the overall results of grade level to.
NEXT> Mark Blount: Thank you, Melissa. Early grade level and above in the fall and winter, early grade level and above at each of the grade levels, both in math and in reading.

[17201-198] Mark Blount | Principal, Maple Avenue School (ASR renders the surname 'Blunt') | 2026-03-04
PREV> Mark Blount: team cut that number to nearly in half by mid-year. So the important note is that it is a team. So when I talk about team, it's the grade level teachers, the title one teachers, the special educators, the service providers and the pair educators.
TEXT> That's the team, right? That we wrap our wrap our  hands around our each of our kids. Also on this slide,  four of the grades K, one, two and four increase the number of students meeting or exceeding the benchmark expectations. And then,  just to note that, as Melissa pointed out, just as her teachers do at Disney, as along with all of  the service providers, pairs and title one teachers,  all grades  meet to discuss results, adjust instruction  in particular, substantial  adjustments  in some of our recent meetings have been made  in grades three and five. Classrooms to address student needs with the support of title one teachers, and with a operation and support of other professionals across the building. So it's a team effort is what I'm trying to say, that all hands are on deck, just like what happens  at Disney. Our  and then going on to the next slide.  As Melissa noted  with her grid of order and targeted targeting needs, we do the same thing. So this is kind of a progress report of, you know, I took out the student names in this one, but, you know, just focuses on what are we going to do. How are we going to  make adjustments to help that kiddo reach proficiency. So  it's just an example of  of how  we use the data to develop groups based on focus areas,  and providing a metric for evaluating progress.
NEXT> Mark Blount: So that's just a piece there. The next one is another piece that we do use kind of gives. It gives you an insight of the kinds of decisions that

[17201-241] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member (sentence onset clipped into an adjacent cluster) | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Mr.. Mr..
TEXT> Well. One of my things is all the things that we can do to improve the school and the education without spending a penny. And one of the things I. Think the kids come to school. Yeah.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It was too easy okay.

[17201-256] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: may help more decision making come Tuesday for voting days. You're just again a reminder of voting day on Tuesday, March 10th. So we appreciate your patience as we're working through the calendar. We want to get it to be the best calendar presentation possible.
TEXT> So we'll bring that to you the next time. And thank you again to Mark and Melissa for the presentation for the middle of the year data. We'll keep working on the CMS and the, you know, Stephen's High School as well.  So just one quick thing that I'd like to bring in Jason Bonneville and I, who was not, unfortunately, here tonight but had a chance to meet this quickly came in yesterday. We had a student, former student reach out to us. And so her name is Doctor Erin Truesdell. And so she's a class of Stevens High School from 2015. And she  has a PhD, and she is a professor at the new Jersey Institute of Technology. And so she is doing research study, and she wanted to reach out to us. And I appreciate that. And so she's looking for  inclusion of our students into a research study that she's doing with the National Science Foundation.  And so I just went in there, I just before we engage in this, I just want to make sure the board knows what's happening. And so what she's looking to do is having some students.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And she felt this. She has more experience, she felt than some of our other students access to just from her own family for technology. But she does see and

[17201-257] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: study that she's doing with the National Science Foundation. And so I just went in there, I just before we engage in this, I just want to make sure the board knows what's happening. And so what she's looking to do is having some students.
TEXT> And she felt this. She has more experience, she felt than some of our other students  access to just from her own family for technology. But she does see and she saw some of her colleagues struggle or classmates struggle as she was going through school  with just basic technology at the early level, she said she was privileged enough to have some more access than most kids. But because one of the things we're struggling with is where do we teach? Like the typing skills and the basic things we know it's a standard. We're working on our 21st century standards for the students,  but we are like, where is the best place to do it? So she's targeting actually a video game. So here's those parents of one thing. Her PhD actually is working with gaming. And so she did it. She succeeded in being able to take that learning part. And then also her interest in things too. So what she's proposing with the National Science Foundation is a grant, and it's working for students in the age or age ranges from 9 to 12. And what they would do, it's similar if you've ever heard of it's a game called Minecraft, and so it has specifically  some tailored for that platform.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: That's what she's proposing. And so the students would have a chance. So what she's looking to do is engage our a couple of our teachers and some students. If

[17201-258] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: is a grant, and it's working for students in the age or age ranges from 9 to 12. And what they would do, it's similar if you've ever heard of it's a game called Minecraft, and so it has specifically some tailored for that platform.
TEXT> That's what she's proposing.  And so the students would have a chance. So what she's looking to do is engage our a couple of our teachers and some students. If this grant goes through  and they would have some opportunity to do some after school time about 1 to 3 times for that study time in the year.  And she would pay the teacher to kind of supervise the students and just to check to make sure they're on task, things like that. And it's really about typing skills and basic technology skills. And so it's a game platform. It would be after school,  and this is the pilot part of it. But just to see and I think this was really exciting. So Jason and I looked we looked at it from I had Jason come in from the technology platform. Part of it, can we do it? Our one concern, which I told Jason we wouldn't have for a while, we still have like a year and something to figure out. It's going to be a work in progress. She's putting it through as the grant, so it's still dependent on when she can get the grant. But we wanted to make sure before we move forward.  What was because it would allow our students access to Minecraft, and we want to make sure it's limited and it's not available during the school day.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And, you know, we're not necessarily pushing that. But as she's testing this program and this would be something available if it goes through to be accessible, just like other

[17201-260] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: And so to equities it to be including rural sections. So what we're looking to see is if anybody would make a motion so that we would be able to just have her look through. So it's obviously she still has to get the grant.
TEXT> And then they still have to do if you're familiar with research, they still have to do or they have to have forms that fell out there saying, yes, you agree to be a subject and the subject is a video game. It's not like they're being tested with like brain skills and things like that in terms of, you know,  you know, major things impact on it. But  if anybody was opposed to it, just to let us know.  But we wanted to check in. It was a great reach out. It was lovely to talk to her, and it was so nice to see our student future years. So she's been  loving Claremont from the past. So she still thinks of us in new Jersey. And it was great. Shout out from the new Jersey Institute of Technology from this professor. So.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Sprague.

[17201-271] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: And she's great. Obviously.
TEXT> Yes. She's a great example of our students and you know, where they go. And I said I felt it would be a great use to because then some of our current students could be able to see some other people who've been in their shoes. They've been in Claremont, and this is where they're going. And so they're showing. And so again, I laugh because we always talk about like video games not getting you anywhere. It's like, yes, you can make a career out of it. And she is. And so she's using her PhD for good  and trying to make sure it's educational technology and not just, you know, something that's mindless and things to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mr. Howard.

[17201-282] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-04
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Here we go. No worries.
TEXT> That's so unfortunate. So anyone with link? There you go. I apologize for that. I thought I vetted it last night to to make sure it was all set, so please. Yes, definitely. Take a look at it. The research is great. And, you know, I'm bringing it to you because I really feel strongly it's a great resource for our students.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So any further discussion from the board all in favor of approving the motion I. Know abstentions. Motion passes.

[17201-376] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sure. I'll make a motion that we move BBF to adoption.
TEXT> I'll second that motion. Mr. Madden second. Oh, Mr. Manuel second.  We're open to discussion. I just had one question  about under number. See the responsibilities of the student government. And who would be responsible for  supporting these students. Like, item number two, is that any public high school student in the district could the student member. So who who in the who in the who in the organization is supporting the students doing these.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: Right now, as Doctor Harrington of the high school is actually we envisioned it could be unless you have another plan for that. Sure. That's how we envision.

[17201-383] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So we're talking about the date to fill in.
TEXT> There's a date and it's an elected position. It's elected by the student body and not appointed by. In the past, we've had our student representatives appointed by the principal or other individuals in the school. And so this kind of I think it had language that it was student members will be chosen by a majority vote of high school student body under the principal, blah, blah. So that would be a different process. And then we would have to determine if this is our policy, when that election would occur and what the term would look like.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I think, well, it says one year term.

[17201-474] Heather Whitney | School Board Chair | 2026-03-04
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: We. Could just echo to. We agreed that parents should be involved in aware and make sure that they're knowing what's happening is exactly. So we will make sure that they're informed and ideally ahead of time too. So.
TEXT> So what is it? Because I, I know, I hear I hear what you have to say, Frank, but I don't like I still don't like that parents aren't notified or don't give consent to their child's positions. Search.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The problem is if if a student has a weapon on them or they have illegal.

[17201-477] Frank Sprague | School Board Member | 2026-03-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Can we confiscate that? The stuff without I mean, what's the.
TEXT> What's the original version said that you can't react to the student at all until the parent is there. So school as a school administrator, you don't need probable cause. You only need reasonable, reasonable suspicion to conduct a search. Your because of in loco parentis you. You have custody of that child. So you have rights that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I see.

[17241-28] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (convenes the organizational meeting and | 2026-03-18
PREV> Multiple: To the. Flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
TEXT> So I would like to formally introduce our two new board members, Mr. Don Lavallée and Mr. Brian Rapp. So congratulations. We appreciate your service and we look forward to having you on our board. Unfortunately, tonight we were supposed to introduce our student board members. They are not able to come in to work commitments,  but we will be having Myles Sheehan and Lily Clarke, our student board members from the high school, be joining us at the next board meeting. So we welcome them when they come back in. Are we ready to look at the election of a board chair.
NEXT> Noelle Kronberg: Over electing a.

[17241-132] Mimi Rhines | Public commenter, Ward 1; district staff member and SREA union buildin | 2026-03-18
PREV> Mimi Rhines: interview committee will be one building principal. No offense or admin team at all, but that is a travesty. How do you not have any other staff, student? Teacher? Parent? Anyone representative on a hiring board to decide who is going to run our district?
TEXT> You guys are acting like you were hiring some far away CEO to run a corporation, not someone who is going to come in and help shape students futures and be working hand in hand with the school community and the public in general. Given how much this process has been done, has been done shrouded in secrecy. You could hire someone who is as transparent as they come, but you know what? They'll be coming in and facing a massive uphill battle of having to earn our trust and respect, because the group of people who probably have the least amount  of trust has appointed them. I urge you to slow this search down and involve the public and staff and thoughtful, meaningful ways. The district as a whole deserves that much. After the year of decisions we've had to contend with this board making. Thank you.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Excuse me. For a second. Mimi, there's a school board policy that specifically talks about, the union and employees. Those if you have a complaint, you need to address the

[17241-146] Cassandra Edwards | Public commenter, Ward 3; Disnard School teacher and SREA building rep | 2026-03-18
PREV> Michelle Springer: higher paying position when we already don't have enough to pay subs in special ed services and paraprofessionals that are needed, so that I just don't understand why we're rushing this all of a sudden, and why we're not involving the right people. Thank you.
TEXT> Sandra Edwards, Ward three I am a parent, a citizen also.  I am the building. Redford does not. I am perplexed by the update that was posted on the website. I was unaware, as I'm sure if I was unaware, having followed this very closely, others were to that. There was also going to be an educational leader on top of our executive director. That was in the wording on the website. And I will say our our district is in dire need of some educational leadership. I have been with this district since 2021. We have been through two superintendents, 3 or 4. I've lost track curriculum directors. We need we need a captain that's going to steer the ship and keep it on a one course. If we want to see improvement in student outcomes, having somebody coming in and saying, we're doing this now, no, we're doing this now. No, we're doing this now is not beneficial for our students, for our teachers, for our community. That needs to be the priority. I understand if you want an executive director to make sure the hard work that's been done in that office is kept up and maintained, but the educational leader needs to be a high priority  of this board.
NEXT> Cassandra Edwards: Right now, we have some big changes coming, and we need someone who can be in the front saying, this is how it's going to work. Solving problems, not just

[17241-155] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent (teacher in another district) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> Hello. Amanda Barton, Ward two.  I also would like to speak just a little bit about, the last bit there. I actually want to say thank you. I think it was nice to hear that the staff actually heard about some decisions before the public. Okay. Not that I'm part of the staff, but to hear the staff was able to prepare themselves before they get blindsided at a meeting. I think that's something we should really try to do moving forward. So, for example, the staff was told that there is going to be a real alignment for Desert and Maple and what grades that might look like. And I think that's a really wonderful process. Moving forward, if you have big decisions that are going to impact people's lives, it might be a good idea to talk to your staff, the people who are working with the children, because many reasons they can bring forward things that you may not know are problems that you can then discuss at the board meeting. So the more input you can get from people before, the better you can make informed decisions and a less proactive kind of coming back on decisions, if that makes sense. So I do thank you. I'm happy to hear that the staff heard about those somewhat decisions so far. I'm still a little concerned about realignment for next year.
NEXT> Amanda Barton: Not because I don't think it's not a good idea. I think that there's a lot of good things that can come from this. We've talked about it before, having

[17241-157] Amanda Barton | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent (teacher in another district) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Amanda Barton: children who are so excited. They're always been in the same school and they will not be in the same school, right. So there's a lot of like feelings, a lot of grief about this change. So if we have to change, let us grieve.
TEXT> Let us move on. Let there be some real good things that come from it. But then don't ask us to change again and grieve again, because we're not going to see the benefits of that change in that realignment. If we just change it again, we're going to have to look further out and further out to see what type of changes that have actually impacted student learning. I won't be making that clear and that my that's my biggest concern. So thank you for the board and your work, and I really hope moving forward, everyone kind of gets their information ahead of time so that they can make educated decisions. And we don't have to have lots of reactive feelings. Thanks, guys.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Excuse me. In the future, if you have a concern, there's a school board policy that requires you to go to the superintendent.

[17241-208] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I appreciate you stepping forward there. And then everyone just I really appreciate your voting efforts. So we had a large turnout. There was 28% of the Claremont voters, having recently been some other meetings that was actually unprecedented in many areas of New Hampshire.
TEXT> And so they really appreciated that everybody stepped forward as much as I did. You did your civic duty, so we appreciate it regardless of how people voted. So we appreciate your support. Again, just to reiterate, so hopefully at our next meeting, our student representatives, Miles Sheen and Lily Clark will be back. And so they will have a seat at the table. They will be with us for the school board meetings and be able to share some student updates and what's happening within the schools, and we look forward to welcoming them back to their meeting. So  hopefully on April 1st.  I know April Fool's joke there. They'll be back. So just a quick update. Yesterday I went to the New Hampshire School Administrators Association meeting in conquered. The objective of the day was to learn about more upcoming legislative priorities. I know Representative Damon mentioned some, so I'll give you some more reports about that. But there's 300 educational bills in front of the Senate right now. And so there's a lot of things that potentially are affecting education. So just be aware. And I appreciate the advocacy for folks standing up for whatever way you want to wish to vote and support.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: But there are some things coming up that will affect schools. So just be aware. I do want to follow up on March is the end of the time where

[17241-226] Michael Petrin | School Board Vice Chair | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Okay. Very good. Yes. Mr..
TEXT> Under authority to of the board. Just some clean up language. It's got SA6 board and CSB in any manner, and then it references. SO6 board and CSB. So that just needs to be cleaned up a little bit. Another household item under organization of the board. Chapter one the the.  Well, actually, it's the second sentence. The CSB, we should spell that out the first time and then CSB and in parentheses. Right. So we're going to model for the kids of what we should do. Down in 105 under be the public may attend to observe only they require no public comment period. How about if we just said the public may attend and there is no public comment allowed, and just clean that language up a little bit just to make it a little easier? And to echo what Lauren said, the superintendent reference is all through there.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Sorry for subcommittees.

[17241-260] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: as the administrator there. And so there's a little bit of a shift with some programs, because there are a lot of programs within the buildings right now. So life skills programing. So there is a K to one program that would move to Disney.
TEXT> So they were with their a same age peers. The partners program which is grades two and three would stay at Maple Avenue. And we'll talk a little bit about that. Visions with grades three and four is Maple Avenue. And then pride would stay out. So we're trying to make sure that the most of the students are with, you know, as everybody is with their grade level peers. There's one right now that's the second and third grade. And we're still discussing what that looks like in terms of some students. It's currently how it is. But looking forward, it would be set up so that they would be programmatically meeting their grade level peers. So it grades three four, five. So again, we want folks to be able to stay with the administrator of the building. We can't guarantee every single person would have that. We did discuss it with the Superintendents Council on Monday. I tested notes I'll share those as well. So we hope to accommodate as many requests as possible.  And we gave the said notice to the teachers in pairs yesterday. And so that just to follow up is where we're talking about making sure that the feedback comes in and that can come through me and through my office, not so much restricting everything else was as a community member.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You're able to share that, but just anything else you want programmatically, then that should come through me as a superintendent and then I can bring that to the board.

[17241-279] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: the end of the year, unpacking at the beginning of the year that's being considered and staggered start times is still being considered too, just to make sure, because now there's more likely to have families that have kids in both, you know, both schools.
TEXT> There's before you might have had 1 in 1 program and 1 in 1 elementary school, but typically most of the students were together. And we're understanding for sure there still could be an impact on staggered start times, too. So there's more to come on this. But we definitely, you know, we welcome more input and think feedback into that, as you know, with groups. But we had to wait till the first hurdle. So literally Wednesday we rolled up our sleeves again just to make sure that we were where we were at. We've had several meetings with the principals, administration, you know, moving forward to.
NEXT> Matt Angell: As it relates to transportation and the start time. We were talking, we're we been committing to have a bus go back and forth between the two elementary schools so

[17241-311] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; outgoing School Board Chair (sentence continuatio | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Any other comments?
TEXT> Sure. I don't think the purpose is is to I think the purpose is to actually be responsive to concerns and complaints from the community. I don't see it as a push. It would be just a feasibility study. I think there was a lot of frustration from the community that when it was brought up, it was kind of  shot down and that we didn't even have an opportunity to discuss it. There wasn't an opportunity to explore it. I don't think there needs to be a tremendous amount of time dedicated to it. If there is no feasibility, if it just looks like it's a no go, it's a no go and drop it and walk away. But I think the community deserves the opportunity to hear what the options are, what the benefits are. There are true academic benefits aligned with it, and tremendous financial benefits that could take money and reallocate it to our students. The thing that was really inspired me or or made me see the value in this is our ability to increase  the number of certified educators in the district, increase the number of guidance counselors that would be available in the district. I did the numbers and and so people can say no and you can say no to me, but I would like to have folks that actually can give us the data and verify the data. So it's not just an opinion or my personal assessment.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: It's I see it as a curtain horse because the next step after that will be cutting those educators after we further. That's that's what we see with districts. So

[17241-356] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: Inclement weather aside. And so we've got to make sure that the senior graduation is, not exceeding the five day. Change. And so that's the one caveat that I don't necessarily think has always been in factored. But this is from the department of editor.
TEXT> And so we need to make sure we're aware of that. So it's not as easy right now. We're hoping to make sure graduation stays where it is. But I can't promise anything because we cannot, you know, break that part of it. So it does have some. Juneteenth is a holiday. So that does kind of impact the last week of June for school. So we wouldn't have school on that day. And then the five the few other days for inclement weather days are there too. So just as a reminder, we go by hours  of school and not necessarily school days for the students. And so in order to comply with that, the middle school and high school have, different hours a little bit than the elementary schools, typically in a typical year. Most elementary schools exceed the number of hours that are necessary, but we need to make sure that everything goes by the middle school and high school number of hours, because that's what they're making sure we're monitoring from the Department of Ed. And so there's a formula that goes through.  It's very, complex. And so we've got to make sure.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So this complies with the number of minimum number of hours. But what happens is every snow day, every delay things like that, those hours count towards hours. And so

[17241-357] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: sure that everything goes by the middle school and high school number of hours, because that's what they're making sure we're monitoring from the Department of Ed. And so there's a formula that goes through. It's very, complex. And so we've got to make sure.
TEXT> So this complies with the number of minimum number of hours. But what happens is every snow day,  every delay things like that, those hours count towards hours. And so every two hour delay is two hours. We're not getting for hours to count towards graduation and things for the students, so we have to factor that into it as well. And so we're looking for a motion to approve the calendar as presented right now. If you have questions, Mr..
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Peter, the. I'm missing it. High school. Graduation is actually not. On here.

[17241-361] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-03-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Just there's been complications in the past with our schedule not mirroring Newport's vacation schedule. I'm assuming that this is.
TEXT> This met with that. And so we we did get that. Superintendent Randall gave us his version for Newport. We were working with that as well and checking in, you know, as Charlestown, kind of see where we fall with those two. So the start date is pretty similar. And we did look around professional development days. There was a question. There was a day in September because of our voting day, which is different, and they don't have the voting day necessarily on the eighth. So we tried to keep it as close to  the because we're aware of our students between sugar River and other school districts, making sure that they're where they need to be aligned.
NEXT> Unidentified: Other questions.

[17241-365] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (sworn in at this meeting; term to 2029) (sentence | 2026-03-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: I would. Yes, Mr. Murray.
TEXT> So I know the the. Early release professional development days are. I know they're contracted. Has there been discussion on changing changing that with the SRE? It doesn't. I've heard this for years. Half days for the kids. Half the time the parents aren't even sending them. So is there some way to to adjust this?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We can certainly go back and look to see. I mean, I think we agree that that's not the most ideal, and we can certainly look at that to.

[17241-384] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (elected at this meeting) | 2026-03-18
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: And so just they're willing to look at that for the future. It was a little too late for this year. But we did bring that forth saying could we discuss that and what does it look like? Because our schools are the polling places.
TEXT> So that's that's important part that our schools are the polling places.  And the, the need for parking and the transportation with the children in the schools prevents both things happening at once. And so we have no school on voting days when our schools are used as precincts.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So the, the. The third voting day, the one September h. We got. September, we got March.

[17241-456] Noelle Kronberg | School Board Clerk (administers the oath of office, calls the roll, ke | 2026-03-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: I'll make a motion to provide access and signatory powers per. As described as Mr. Angel. Do you have all the, particulars in there? No. All that you can read back to the board.
TEXT> Like, who is correct? So it provides Matt, Angel, Laurie, Mary, and Big Lee, access for to open and share accounts and conduct visits with associated accounts, endorse checks, orders for payments or transfer funds, and conduct digital banking transactions on behalf of the district, in addition to having access to digital banking. And then the Finance Committee chair and the school board chair would just have access to digital banking.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Acts inquiry, access inquiry.

[17291-31] Mr. Dewey | Representative of the Claremont Kiwanis Club (introduced by the chair  | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Now let's open it up for comments. Board comments, citizens comments. I see Mr. Dewey here tonight. Representing Kiwanis, and.
TEXT> I don't have any prepared statements or anything, but, this is exactly the kind of thing that the Cornice Club does. We, we work very hard doing fundraising, and it is to support the children. So the the money.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes. Thank you.

[17291-33] Mr. Dewey | Representative of the Claremont Kiwanis Club (introduced by the chair  | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yes. Thank you.
TEXT> So we raise we work hard to raise money to support the youth in our community and worldwide. So we were very pleased to be able to help out with this.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We are so grateful. Thank you.

[17291-74] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029); member of the ad | 2026-04-01
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Okay. Okay. They will be added.
TEXT> All right.  And then Leslie Peabody down to the bottom. Shared with you. Mobile van. This doesn't have to go in to minutes, but I'm going to say it anyway.  Friday the Unofficial is going to be at Stephens High School. They're doing a vibrant variations. Very cool deal. I would encourage any of the board members to stop in from 1015 on. Amazing opportunity that she's providing the kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: That's at Stephens High School.

[17291-92] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: helpful for me to read this statement and, I think this will help and it might allay some comments that might be coming up. We've heard a lot of concerns about Claremont search for a new school leader, and we understand where that's coming from.
TEXT> In the past searches,  the committee and our selection committee has been made up of board members, teachers and administrators and community members. This process has had, to be frank, mixed results. The past superintendents that have been selected this way via a full community search haven't been what Claremont has expected or needed. This year has been an eye opener for all of us in Claremont. Between the deficit, the budget and the departure of people who are in key roles. It through the whole district into disarray. But it also clarified what we need in our next superintendent or executive director. We are trying to move quickly and decisively and felt strongly that the way forward was clear. We need someone who can focus on operations and setting the Claremont schools on the right path. We didn't need large community effort for a long process to figure that out. We need somebody who has extensive experience in operations, someone who can clearly and quickly learn the confidence of the Claremont administrative and educational team, and someone who has the strength to make difficult strategic decisions while understanding the ultimate goal put putting our students on a path to success as a board.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We probably should have kept the community more informed about the kind of leader we know we need for the short term future. It is our job to manage our

[17291-96] Van Holder | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent of a Maple Avenue student formerly at | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: comments, give the citizens and the staff some information to go on regarding the superintendent search and will that I will move on to citizens comments. Do we have any citizens comments? Please state your name and the Ward two. Excuse me. That ward? Yeah.
TEXT> Van hold. Ward two.  I do have a comment about the reallocation of schools for the elementary. That K through five or K-2 five. I know we got told about doing the rollout and couldn't because the equity of students, could. You rely on the school district where staff, students will want to have students go on to Maple instead of trying to move the kids who had just been moved from bluff, and now they have a new home. My student went from bluff. Was in first grade at Maple. If y'all do the realignment, then will go to Disney for one year. Then go back to Maple the following year. That's all I'm moving for a little kid who went from kindergarten, the first grade bluff getting ripped out of bluff this year, put in maple, then possibly getting moved to Disney, then back to make one. So maybe looking at realigning the district if you want to split it.  The other thing is, with the budget being passed, has it been updated with the possible diesel going to $7 a gallon with transportation? That's a lot more transportation, a lot more money within that transportation. And the last one with less transportation would be possibly. I know you probably won't do this.
NEXT> Van Holder: Is up the opening bluff back up keeping them still school up to maintenance for people if someone will possibly buy it or not in the future because I know

[17291-97] Van Holder | Public commenter, Ward 2; parent of a Maple Avenue student formerly at | 2026-04-01
PREV> Van Holder: passed, has it been updated with the possible diesel going to $7 a gallon with transportation? That's a lot more transportation, a lot more money within that transportation. And the last one with less transportation would be possibly. I know you probably won't do this.
TEXT> Is up the opening bluff back up keeping them still school up to maintenance for people if someone will possibly buy it or not in the future because I know I live near it. I saw icicles from the roof two storeys to the ground, which means it wasn't getting kept maintenance or updating. So,  and I know the school has all brand new smart boards in it, and the classrooms are still filled with students and teachers work. So there's a couple things that to think about. If we have all brand new smart boards in there, that's a couple of thousand of dollars by cluster, 20 or $30,000 with just smart boards  and not other technology that we have there. So if we want to the last travel for parents who were in the bluff area, maybe open up school back up, then you have those kids not traveling across the whole district again, and you're down to two busses and not maybe five for the elementary kids every day. So I don't know if you're ever looking into that with what's coming up with the new school year.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So thank you. Thanks. And just for reference, for the public, for future reference reference, we ask that citizens comments relate to items that are not already on the agenda.

[17291-112] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Matt Angell: And. And we couldn't have done it without.
TEXT> I know that it has been a hardship on so many  on on the students, on the staff, on the parents, on the administration. And I am just so grateful that. I won't be confident until we meet July 1st  when we know that that's true. Yes, but I'm delighted at that news.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[17291-154] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: have some called Coda certified occupational therapy assistants. And then we have physical therapists for a few small students and then a physical therapist assistant. So those are within shared models within service delivery. So we have them at Disney and we have preschool students.
TEXT> But then there also we have our students at  Green Mountain Children's Center. There's one for all children childcare and then Head Start. So we're responsible for providing services for the students  in that age range and all of those service providers. So that's what's happening currently in the next one.  And so there's some pros and cons to that, right? So there's a gentle introduction to the school setting. So they get to see it. They're in a small group. They have play based services. They have a very small group size. And they have some 1 to 1 therapy sessions.  They have some community partners. So they get to see unfortunately, some of the cons for that is that the teacher has a very high caseload. There's almost 50 students or seven students in progress.  There's a limited schedule and the service times.  It's not a full program, so it's not quite fully ready for, you know, a typical preschool readiness program.  There's lack of integration and the peer interaction. So it's not, you know, a class of students sitting down interacting and things. So it's students come in for a service and then go home and, you know, throughout the day.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So, the related service times are not being utilized efficiently because there's a lot of travel time between all the centers. And so transitioning. So if the students had been

[17291-158] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: would give us at least a better understanding of who the future students are and then just the future of the preschool. So ideally, our goal would be to have universal preschool. So all the students in Claremont would be able to come into preschool.
TEXT> It would need more spaces, more rooms and things. But then to be able to do some more support for any other programs.  And then the Preschool Development Committee would be something we would love to see happening. And then just again, continuing with community partners, we know it's not going to be always the same setting within the schools, but to get a bulk of the students in the preschool. So that's just a little foreshadowing into the future. So we do anticipate more than we've had this year, but it's less than we would like in the future. So we would love to have some input and see if anybody is interested in looking into working on a preschool committee in the future. Any questions? Yes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Mr. Oliver, just.

[17291-164] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: that we were actually servicing a different model than the model that we had budgeted for in the 25 budget. Could you tell me the difference in cost between, or how many more parents that we've assigned with this new model? Or early childhood educators?
TEXT> So we have three proposed paras to support the student's needs.  With that, right now, we have more service providers,  and that was what was in the budget. In the proposal. So I can get more details. I don't know if you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Have three more.

[17291-202] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: we have the two administrators from the upper grade levels that you were concerned about. But they are looking at the policy. So we don't have a specific staff policy. There's a student policy, and that's what we're trying to review for our employee handbook.
TEXT> But has the word gotten down to the students?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: The students I will have the administrators who are up on the agenda tonight to give them more updates on that.

[17291-228] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes, may.
TEXT> I would like to speak in favor of this motion if anybody watched the video.  About 13 months ago. What happened? All I could say is I was so glad she was there, and I. This is old school. But pity the fool who got between her and these kids.  So I, I, I trust her with our kids lives. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I hardly agree. Anyone else make a comment or question? Okay. The motion is on the floor. All those in favor of the motions, AI? All those opposed? Nay. Motion

[17291-230] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: I hardly agree. Anyone else make a comment or question? Okay. The motion is on the floor. All those in favor of the motions, AI? All those opposed? Nay. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you very much.
TEXT> Very much for a great community partner. Few more things, if I could, Madam Chair. Just a couple more recognitions to. Again, thank you to our students. So today is Paraprofessional Recognition Day. So I just want to do a quick shout out to all of our paraprofessionals in our schools. They help our students be more successful. They help them access the curricula and more. So we thank you, paraprofessionals for all you do. You're really a great resource to us and we appreciate you also. April is occupational Therapy Health Month, so our occupational therapists are OTS and our certified occupational therapy assistants their codas. They do so much to help our students function more effectively in school. People used to think it's like, oh, it's just handwriting and things. They do so much more. They help with self-regulation, they develop fine motor skills and they support the sensory processing of information and more. So we thank all of our Codas and all of our educational therapists for all that we do. Just another quick shout out. So last week there was a school social worker conference and  our own Courtney Porter was there.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And not only was she there, she was recognized for her work on their board and she received an award, so they celebrated her at the conference. We appreciate her

[17291-292] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029); member of the ad | 2026-04-01
PREV> Don Lavalette: would be integrated need further investigation could not combine middle and high school life skills programs can only house students together within a four year age span. So again, to the public. This was not everything is rosy. This looks at the hard truth, right?
TEXT> So it's just a contingency for gathering data. Another important point that the folks will see is, the preschool program model options, which, when you look at the savings and it would actually increase our ability to service that preschool population, which get it before a third grade reading that data shows that it's going to be in a good spot. So that cost data is in there as well. And I'm going to read just one more consolidation goal would be to create an opportunity to expand preschool access to all students who would create space in a lower elementary school to house preschool programs, create fiscal space in a budget to level fund universal general education, preschool support, proof of concept, first step and improve academic achievement. Reduce sped expenses long term. Reduce disruptive behaviors on and on. So I went into this just looking to hear and gather data. And it may mean something. It may not mean something. The board could choose to just close the committee and be done with it, but I think we should at least put it on the site. Include it with the minutes and I'd be interested in feedback. I mean, I don't have all the answers, and certainly everything I read to is the work of Miss Lewis and Doctor Harrington. But it was fascinating to look at.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I'm looking for clarification on the board's. Collective thoughts regarding what you how you see this committee action. And, is there a timeline? You know, I don't want I don't

[17291-305] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: And so if there's an opportunity to do great work in a budget neutral way or to provide services that we don't have now, and I don't know if we can pull off the preschool service with the amount of space that we have currently.
TEXT> I don't see it meaning we don't have enough room period to do anything really above this, which is not anywhere close to the ideal that we we want to achieve. So the question is, is that if we have an opportunity to do two very important things, which is to stabilize the budget and reduce overall cost burdens to the taxpayers, and simultaneously be able to offer more educational services to our to our children that are kind of core critical services,  then I don't think you should ever say it's not time for that. I'm not suggesting that it is time now, but the idea that we could we could capture  four, three, four, $5 million and we're just like, let's not do that because it's it's, you know, uncomfortable.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: I don't know that.

[17291-351] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; chair of the ad hoc School Reconfiguration Explor | 2026-04-01
PREV> Loren Howard: I don't see anything because there's nothing there's no action. There's just a report. And that just seems like a convenient time for this committee to speak to us again. After all of the feedback tonight.
TEXT> And I, I see, Brian, why you feel that way. And I just want to clarify, is that the way these executive summaries kind of rolled out is that the meetings themselves kind of went different places. There were things I hadn't even thought about. There was opportunities I hadn't even considered. I was primarily looking for the last for the last budget season was how can we save money and maximize our resources? And now it was actually talking to educators, talking to leaders in the building. And I'm like, I didn't think of that. I didn't think of that. So why shouldn't we, like, add that tag that in as a possibility? It's it's just one extra, you know, piece of chess that we can move on the board. And if we can benefit the kids in the and the teachers in the community and keep it budget neutral  or, you know, even reduce the budget at the same time, it's a win win for everybody. So I can see where you would feel that way reading this executive summary, how it kind of went all over the place and how ended up going to preschool. So I do I do appreciate how it could feel that way. And but it was really just a cool meeting, cool conversation and, and a lot of really positive energy that was infectious. So.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay, we're going. To look forward to May when the committee's report on their expectations and and rules. I think this discussion was helpful. It clarifies some for the public

[17291-472] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Similar to what was done in for the Sass testing last year, where I spoke to them and incentivized taking that test seriously. We've talked to my leadership team, which is most specifically for Saturday. You're talking math and English,  and we're talking about incentivizing the juniors here about, if they are reach a certain score, that they do not have to take their finals in math or English. It's an incentive that gets students to engage a little bit. And I think what happens is that our scores have been artificially low. So I think that you'll see a much more accurate picture  of what our teachers and students are capable of.  So I'm looking forward to that. I'll be speaking to the junior class and giving that speech Monday morning during advisory. The, New Hampshire sass, which is a science testing, is going to be May 6th. The reason and the reason that's the date is really we're kind of we're aligning with Newport, so we don't interfere too much with a region ten agreement, and we don't mess up our kids that go to the Newport Tech Center. I've got the great coworker and tech director who reminds me that I need to focus on that.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So all in all, I am very excited to see what our, what our students have to show. This has been a difficult year, but if I learned anything about

[17291-473] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Michael Herrington: with Newport, so we don't interfere too much with a region ten agreement, and we don't mess up our kids that go to the Newport Tech Center. I've got the great coworker and tech director who reminds me that I need to focus on that.
TEXT> So all in all, I am very excited to see what our, what our students have to show. This has been a difficult year, but if I learned anything about Claremont in the last four years is. Man, these students shine when they're, you know, back is up against the wall.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: When will you get the results of that?

[17291-504] Brian Rapp | School Board Member (sworn in 3/18/26; term to 2029) | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> Mr.. Just just a comment, maybe a little concern.  So some kids, if they're high achieving students, they may be tested out. They may be they may have a lot of stuff going on with college applications, stuff like that. So there may be a valid reason for some of these kids to opt out. I'm not not saying we need to like, you know, hard and fast. Say absolutely not. You know, they they opt out and they should be punished. Whatever they're there could be just other circumstances why a student is opting out. Sure. So I think that that should be considered.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I'm not dismissing that, but just financially. It helps us for sure. And it goes to go scores. So even if they just attempt it, it would be, you know,

[17291-507] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (ASR renders the surname 'Harrington') | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: That's helpful information.
TEXT> The, the approach that I take with all of my students when I'm dealing with them is my goal is for them to be incredibly well informed.  And I think that sitting down and explain, I mean, and the kids at Stevens High School are absolutely amazing. I think  Mikayla and Lily are an example of that. And I know Noelle, who was here and has been here. I just  top notch kids in their example of all of the children there. And I think that they deserve to know the reasons why. And once they know, they make very good, informed decisions. And I think that are there going to be some kids that are going, I am doing way too much now. I can't. Sure. But when you inform the majority of them all right, I think they'll say, yeah, I can do this. All right. And we work with them and try and make sure that they get the options to maybe retake it or reschedule it. There is a window. You can kind of do that. But again, it's all about making sure that tends to be an especially the students are informed. That's all. And then whatever right there is that never goes away.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. One final question.

[17291-509] William 'Bill' Madden | School Board Member; Curriculum Subcommittee Chair; Capital Improvemen | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. One final question.
TEXT> So one is  all of what you say is true. And the kids are great. But you also remember you almost jumped over three seats in the high school at the public meeting because the girl was joking about how she blew it off.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay, what's the second one?

[17291-544] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: I understand that, and I Mr. Howard.
TEXT> I think there's confusion about we had passed GIC, which is about student conduct, but is not specifically the dress code. And GIC has conversations about reprimands for student Conde, for student dress code violations, but it does not put them out. The policy that we should review is which is last review in 2005 and is exactly what Michael just quoted.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Mr.. Mr.. Mr.. Peter has the table.

[17291-580] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Number eight is more an information. I understand that Maple Avenue, I think the librarian, Maple Avenue has applied for a grant. An online grant of $5,000 to Dollar General.
TEXT> Dollar general has an educational fund. If I could just add on to it. Literacy grant. And so they offer grants to communities within a 15 mile radius of their stores. The grant that she's applying for this would be Jillian Rapp. Who's there? They're library media specialist, is a youth literacy grant, and it's offered to schools, libraries and organizations. And so with the attention with  Buy New Books. And so if it was awarded, it could be $5,000. The problem is we wouldn't know until September 10th. But it's just a make folks aware.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So just aware that they are playing this.

[17291-650] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (this cluster also absorbs Ms. Whitney's | 2026-04-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Go ahead.
TEXT> Are you okay? So, Michelle, I miss Harrington and have been discussing. And so there's some possibilities of looking at some other outside pieces. There's, like, one student from Fall Mountain who may be interested in one of our programs. And is that something that we wish to pursue to see? So if everybody's okay with that, to kind of find out what that would look like, the financial impact, things like that. And so then just more reciprocity potentially with other CTE. So if there's only one student that wants a particular program, we don't want to deny them that opportunity. Transportation would not be included. That would be, you know, depending upon the parents or somebody else. But we don't want to lose student interest into different programs and potentially gain possible income to for some students coming into our program, that may not be into the, the category ten part, where they're part of the agreement, but we don't want to exclude them also too. So if you're okay with that, we can explore more of that. Okay.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yes. Mr. Howard.

[17300-13] Kim (surname not stated) | Audience questioner — a parent with children in the district "for 11 y | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Is there a question from the audience? Yes, Kim. All right.
TEXT> So your,  the letter, the the letter that you wrote,  emphasized your strong command of central office and school level operations and the importance of relating every decision to the community's vision of student success. In my opinion, what I've seen with my kids,  you know, in the district for 11 years now,  we have a lack of clear expectations and holding people accountable. It's been one of the most glaring areas  that I've seen that we need improvement or that need improvement.  How have you built how how have you built and sustained a culture of accountability from the top down across an entire district, ensuring that everyone at every level consistently meets expectations for performance, policy adherence and continuous improvement. And how  will that be tracked going forward?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Great. Thank you. So I, I was raised first as a teacher and then became an administrator in a system that was data driven. And I didn't realize that that

[17300-15] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: we use data in a way that's motivating and not discouraging is really important? My responsibility is to be having that conversation with people all the time, because that simply sets the tone and the expectation that data matters, which really means outcomes matter, right?
TEXT> Because data means we're looking at measures of student achievement. I, I don't believe that test scores are the most important outcome of a school system. But if tests are measuring whether kids can read, write and do math, then they're probably indicators are pretty important things. But there are other outcomes that matter. Right. So if if the state or the federal government doesn't require us to collect data around other things that we value, once we figure out what those things are, let's track that data too. So maybe there's more than one kind of outcome for high school students that we think is valuable. College admission might be important, but maybe it's not the only important thing. We're sitting in a beautiful building, a technical center that should be one of the jewels of this part of the state and of this school system, and maybe is. But I would venture and I have a vocational education background. That's how I started my career, that there are outcomes from the programs in this building that are every bit as valuable, more so maybe for some students than any college admission that happens over at Stevens High School. And if we were appropriately measuring those things and talking about that kind of data, I think we're doing a better job with data than just looking at test scores.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So number one is it's my job to talk about the importance of data and what that means in a way that's inclusive, not exclusive. That's encouraging and not discouraging.

[17300-19] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: weekly basis, then it's actually really easy to address when it doesn't happen because we've agreed it's reasonable. Right. And that, again, it doesn't have to be a very negative, threatening thing. Just hey, this is what we do. This is what we read on.
TEXT> It needs to be done. Most people with feedback will do the things that we've asked them to do. On the very rare occasions that somebody doesn't, there are processes we can go into for performance management to bring them along. And when those processes failed, eventually, once in a while, you turn over some staff and that's okay. Right. Once we've agreed on what we think is reasonable, that's just what we expect. Not not with judgment, not with great negativity, not with a bunch of emotion, but just this is what's reasonable. This is what our taxpayers and our students and their families deserve. So this is what we're going to do. Good, good. Helpful. Okay. Yeah. Thank you.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Next question is about school reconfiguration. I'm not surprised. So there's a big setup, and I'm going to read it.

[17300-36] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes.
TEXT> So,  public schools have been competing for students for decades. Whether we are willing to talk about it and admit it or not. Charter schools have existed since the mid 90s in most states, including in New Hampshire, where the law passed in either 1994 and 1995. Now, it took ten years for the first charter to actually launch in the state, but since something like 2004, there have been charter schools in New Hampshire and just under 4%, I think, of New Hampshire public school eligible students go to charter schools. So to some extent, families have chosen to leave Claremont, among other systems, to go to those schools. And whether we talked about it or not, we were competing for those students. Enrollment. Families are allowed to homeschool, and they've been allowed to homeschool for years. And we don't get very far, in my opinion, in public education, telling families, that's a terrible idea. In my opinion, we get a lot farther by demonstrating the value that we offer in our schools so that they're not looking to leave for homeschooling or charters or open enrollment in another school district.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We do compete. That's reality. We can choose not to acknowledge it, but it's a fact. And I don't see less of that happening over the last decade or so.

[17300-37] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: in public education, telling families, that's a terrible idea. In my opinion, we get a lot farther by demonstrating the value that we offer in our schools so that they're not looking to leave for homeschooling or charters or open enrollment in another school district.
TEXT> We do compete. That's reality. We can choose not to acknowledge it, but it's a fact. And I don't see less of that happening over the last decade or so. I don't know how anyone else could see less of that happening over the last decade or so, and I don't see myself or even collectively, the 30 or so people who are in this room having the ability to change it anytime, real soon. And I work in the here and now. I work in a public school system today under the current regulatory and legal scheme. So I have to live with conditions and work within the conditions that exist. And that means in a place like this. Here's a great example of this in my opinion. So between 2000 and 24, last school year in 2025, this school year, roughly 10% of the students enrolled in Claremont schools left. The the biggest thing I'm aware of that happened was that last August and September, the papers and the internet were filled with headlines about a financial crisis, which I would guess scared people out of the system. Which is interesting because what actually happens in schools is really separate from them. It wasn't teachers. It wasn't it wasn't second grade curriculum that lost track of the money.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It was a lack of systems in the central office that did that. Principals and teachers are largely the same people who they were. I know there's been some change

[17300-39] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: got to get out of here. I understand some have already started to return, that the enrollment numbers have gone up since the September enrollment submission to the Department of Education, and by January, you're already seeing people back in the system, which is wonderful.
TEXT> So in this case, the question was about competition, right? You're competing with yourselves and you're competing with the perception that this situation created in the community and going forward, how how do you not just create a perception, but actually a reality where people can understand what's here for kids? To me, that goes back to data. It goes back to outcomes, right? However, we choose to measure outcomes and the value we offer to kids in the community, that's what gives them a reason to want to be here. I do think, and I'm not going to apologize for this, that one of the most important things we do in our public schools that we don't do well enough in many cases, is explain to people why we offer the best opportunities for their kids. That's what we should be trying to do all the time.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Very good. I'm going to I'm going off track here. So just FYI, this district, passed a, Warren article in March, that, said that we would pay for zero students

[17300-45] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: hurt communities like Claremont Tech? One part two. As our leader, how will you try and hold the state of New Hampshire accountable in order to ensure the state funding that New Hampshire Supreme Court has repeatedly ruled we are entitled to as a community.
TEXT> More good questions. Thank you.  So I said this a few minutes ago. I work for a school district. Whatever system it is under the existing legal and regulatory scheme. Those are the conditions under which I work. So my about them is mostly irrelevant because I'm not going to change them, not by myself. And in New Hampshire, even a few hundred people will have a hard time changing them. And I'm looking at one of your elected representatives when I say that.  So. My job when I work for a school system is to work with constituents to figure out what is strategically in the best interest of that system and then to fight for whatever that is. And if you look, think about what I just said and look at the last seven years of my career, and it might make sense in a different way, because I went to a system that had an existential threat to the quality of its high school in the form of declining enrollment, and actually tried 3 or 4 other things. First, before  reading this law, the open enrollment law, and then working with them on that. I'm obligated. I like to say, if until we start returning the paychecks, we have to do what's best for the school system, right? If I take your money, I have to do what's best for you. So I've done that for my employers. I would do that for Claremont.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Now, it might look different. They might be different things to the funding question. So I love this. Again, being from New Hampshire and being kind of familiar with the

[17300-46] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: say, if until we start returning the paychecks, we have to do what's best for the school system, right? If I take your money, I have to do what's best for you. So I've done that for my employers. I would do that for Claremont.
TEXT> Now, it might look different. They might be different things to the funding question. So I love this. Again, being from New Hampshire and being kind of familiar with the first Claremont lawsuit and the second Claremont lawsuit. Now more recently, the convention rent cases.  The second suit to me did one of the most important things, which was to. To create an expectation that the way the state redistributes its tax revenue is part of the problem. But since 2011, that's been undone. Right. What? They came together and called themselves donor communities. Right? Successfully changed the original swept system so that they get to keep all their own money, their own. Right. It's a by the way, when I pay, when I pump gas and I pay a gasoline tax, I pay the same amount no matter where I'm pumping gas. Right. But when I pay property taxes, it depends on where I'm able to afford to buy a home. So working for the best interests of the Claremont district, this becomes a very important thing to talk about and to go to Concord and advocate for, because to me, that's the fundamental problem. Claremont last year spent roughly $26,000 per student, not including out of district special ed costs or transportation.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That should be enough money. The funding problem here isn't not enough money. It's too much money having to come from a place that it's just not realistic to expect

[17300-58] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Michelle (surname not stated): it's important for teachers to get together and discuss. Right now, they're covering each other to go to the bathroom. They're covering the nurse to answer the door. So how how are you going to handle this crisis situation right now where we don't have.
TEXT> It's probably worse here, but it's not unique to here. This is happening in a lot of our public schools over the last 5 to 7 years, that it has been much harder to hire. It has been much harder to keep buildings fully staffed. I do I do need to say, because and again, I've said it to other people throughout the day, so the truth is the truth. I was a little surprised at some of the class sizes in your elementary schools. I think you're a little higher.  And just looking at the numbers at the highest level, it looks like there should be enough money. So I don't know enough right now to go farther than that. But I was a little surprised at the class sizes. Also, not having an actual four day a week, half day preschool program for every student who qualifies for that. To me, that's a serious, probably high priority concern  for a system that wants to make sure kids learn to read, write, and do math and then become citizens. I mean, this there's so much research on the value of preschool.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's just it goes without saying. But look, to be fair, I wasn't here. You've dealt with some extraordinary financial pressures. You had a real crisis here. I can't second

[17300-64] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Unidentified audience member — addressed as "Doctor": based on the score. So my question, how do you think about scores as part of what a school system should be measured by, and is increasing scores in explicit goal or a byproduct in the way you think, etc.? Expand the question issue with.
TEXT> So. So the last part first my personal belief what what motivates me increases in quantitative student achievement levels. All right. Byproduct of doing the right things. That's what I believe. So just to answer that directly.  But it is very popular to use these arbitrarily determined universal achievement levels of competency as sort of a yardstick for everyone. But if we know children, which I'm guessing most people here no children, we know that the same yardsticks don't work for every child, that kids have different needs, and we should have different expectations for them if we see them as human beings. If you care enough to go home and do this, there's a researcher at Stanford named Sean Reardon who has done a lot of work around socioeconomic status and expected achievement. It is actually, since about 2011, in the United States, a community socioeconomic status is the strongest indicator of likely student achievement levels on all sorts of standardized assessments. Stronger than race, stronger than any other factor. There's a scatter chart that I can bring it sometime. It's great.  Students in the lowest socioeconomic status, zip codes or catchment areas on average will achieve up to three grade levels below what we would typically consider average grade level expectation. And students in our wealthiest public school catchment areas will achieve up to three grade levels above what we would consider average or typical grade level expectation.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So a competency rating that's based on that average expectation, if that's even what it's based on, doesn't work equitably for students in all of those communities across the United

[17300-79] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: to be spent in classrooms, on kids and teachers and support staff who serve kids. So one of the pieces of that was an assistant superintendent for curriculum, instruction and assessment. We hired him three years ago last year, his second year on the job.
TEXT> We saw growth in our school that was farthest behind in student achievement. We saw growth above the state average level. This goes to learning to celebrate the right indicators of success. So student achievement right. The percentage of students in the school scoring at or above proficient has not skyrocketed is not where anybody wants it to be. But the student's rate of growth last year was higher than the state average among elementary schools. That was a huge success for them. School. So that took two years after we hired that assistant superintendent for curriculum, instruction and assessment, and he will be the next superintendent there. I think whether it's this July or a year later.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Yes, doctor.

[17300-101] Unidentified audience member — central-office staffing question | Audience questioner familiar with the SAU central office ("it's very n | 2026-04-06
PREV> David (surname not stated): I really.
TEXT> I have two very unrelated questions. May I please. I'm looking to the leader. When you talked about pre-K, you talked about students who qualify for pre-K. Can you elaborate on that, please?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I need to be really careful when I don't know the detail about what I'm talking about, because I do think this is really important. Like, I'm not an

[17300-113] David (surname not stated) | Audience participant recognized by the chair three times as "David" (2 | 2026-04-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. David.
TEXT> So part of my background. Is. Involved with training from a car seats to to public policy and action listens. And we worked on programs of sustainability to develop in social economical challenges like climate of how to engage the parents, the family so they would be more supportive of their children's future and education, which the goal was to raise their their educational opportunities and they have better results. And it's a real struggle. You've already acknowledged that and that your your numbers two are right on, by the way, and how you said the percentage lower and the percentage higher. So what is your goal here? Visionary. Visionary. It's going to take a few years to do this.  Of making it more sustainable so that the community can start believing in the school system and that it means something to them. So they see what, not just test scores, but but the end result of their child going on and being successful in life. How are you going to sustainably put that in place?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So now maybe, maybe half of us in the room tonight. When we were kids, we were told, if if you work hard and you play by the rules, you're

[17300-114] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> David (surname not stated): believing in the school system and that it means something to them. So they see what, not just test scores, but but the end result of their child going on and being successful in life. How are you going to sustainably put that in place?
TEXT> So now maybe, maybe half of us in the room tonight. When we were kids, we were told, if if you work hard and you play by the rules, you're going to end up better off than your parents. And it was true. The other half, roughly, of the people in the room, if you were told that it wasn't true, and our kids now and their parents have figured that out and they've actually for about 20 years, maybe more that and if you if you look at data around this, this is what happens if you look back to the mid 20th century and you look at economic status of adults compared to their parents. It was it was almost universally true. Go to school, earn your high school diploma, maybe go to college. You're going to be better off than your parents were. This was true through the 70s into the 80s. It ended somewhere in the 90s or around 2000. I'm not sure exactly where there was a tipping point, and it's just not. And if you have older kids right now who are trying to figure out how to pay rent or buy a house. And pay college debt. Right. We all know that it just changed. It just changed. It changed gradually. If you look at the data, it's actually a very linear kind of a progression or a decline in the data.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I think that engaging families now, I mean, our I look at the parents of our kids in public schools today and their kids to me. So now we've

[17300-115] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: pay rent or buy a house. And pay college debt. Right. We all know that it just changed. It just changed. It changed gradually. If you look at the data, it's actually a very linear kind of a progression or a decline in the data.
TEXT> So I think that engaging families now, I mean, our I look at the parents of our kids in public schools today and their kids to me. So now we've got a generation of parents or more than one maybe, who were raised with this myth, and we're asking them to tell their kids, work hard and play by the rules so you can be better off. And they're going to say, maybe I worked hard and played by the rules, but I'm not better off. So what are we trying to sell? I think it goes back again to how do we define achievement, what's an outcome that we value and what's. And we have to ask them what's an outcome that's meaningful to you for your kids or grandkids? Or if if there's an outcome that's meaningful for you as an adult, maybe there's a toe hold for us there. That brings me back to this building, which I don't know if we're the only function here this evening, but in a building like this, there could be other things going on, potentially in the evening. They should be.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: That would serve the parents of our students regarding the value and the outcomes that we can provide in our public school system, and maybe that's part of a solution

[17300-116] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent candidate being interviewed — Dr. Tim Broadrick, then s | 2026-04-06
PREV> Tim Broadrick: a toe hold for us there. That brings me back to this building, which I don't know if we're the only function here this evening, but in a building like this, there could be other things going on, potentially in the evening. They should be.
TEXT> That would serve the parents  of our students regarding the value and the outcomes that we can provide in our public school system, and maybe that's part of a solution to that. But there's a really big societal problem here, right? It's a it's a it's a socioeconomic problem across our society for the last 50 to 100 years, a solution here. Now I think it starts with, again, it can't all be about getting everybody into a four year college. We're way beyond that, I think. Yes. Right. It's got to be about other outcomes that actually matter in people's lives. Right? How do I go from I can make this wage on an hourly basis to I can make this wage with a reasonable investment.
NEXT> Unidentified audience member — addressed as "Doctor": Can can you put one more end very short.

[17307-176] Rocco Ruggeri | SAU 6 Board Chair (presiding); Unity-side SAU 6 Board Member | 2026-04-09
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: be created. By the Saw board. So the two school boards in advance or prior to the separation outlining, how to manage almost everything and anything from liabilities, assets, support, resources, whatever it is, just to get everything outlined, kind of the list that continues.
TEXT> You know what the source six be a role is, in, you know, closing out year end, records, documents, whatever that is, it support. So it's a big one. I know, there's a lot of it work that needs to be done. And, that's what the agreement would outline. So he pretty much summed it up in a way where  he said, you know, for example, myself and Candice from the two boards here could get together with Kerry and Matt and kind of create an outline. He would facilitate some of the conversation and the structure of the MOU to make sure things aren't missed, and that they're addressed properly  in the best interest of, of, both districts. And then I believe that would come to vote. I think it would come to vote. I don't really know.  But the agreement will be created  that way when unity is no longer part of six, will be two very separate entities with no overlap that will have an agreement in place so that we can work together to just close everything out. As everybody would expect it to be. That's kind of it in a nutshell. So, I mean, with that, you know, maybe at a, at a high level, we could get  some of the, the key points discussed that might be of consideration. From the I don't know.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I want to do some introductions if you're okay. Just so we did bring Jason Bonneville, who? Our director of informational services and instructional technology. And then Paige Jarvis is

[17307-212] Jason Bonneville | Director of Informational Services and Instructional Technology, SAU 6 | 2026-04-09
PREV> Heather Whitney: money in your budget to just you're going to have to have somebody it part time anyway, like in house being available to come and troubleshoot. That's my assumption, Jason. Unless I. Mean. Unless I'm wrong, you're going to have to have somebody in house.
TEXT> You're going to you're going to need someone that can be there to do a lot of the stuff. Now, I can say from my perspective with supporting unity, you guys are pretty self-sufficient. All right. We get every once in a while, we get a broken Chromebook, and then every once in a while, you know, I think the heaviest lift that I do for you in a year is really your new student enrollment, where I create all the accounts for the kids at the beginning of the year. Short of that, it's onesie tos. It's simple questions here and there. Sue actually does a pretty good job as far as being able to maintain a lot of the stuff herself.  So but I mean, I am managing your entire Google instance. I am managing the apps that get pushed out, the Chromebooks, all that kind of stuff. Inventory.  So there is there is a lot of pieces to it. So there's you're going to want somebody that can be available.  But like I said, the the lift for unity on my plate right now is not that severe. The, the lift of getting you guys separating, getting everything that's going to be huge.  Like I said, I can walk to my office and disconnect.
NEXT> Jason Bonneville: You and your phones and internet are out, like you're physically wired to us. So, there's going to be a lot of bits and pieces that happen there for sure.

[17323-19] Michelle Herrington | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (self-identifie | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: you on, but thank you for all your hard work. The second thing we'd like to recognize is we learned about this is the ambassadors program. And we have five ambassadors here tonight. And Miss Harrington is going to tell us about the ambassadors program.
TEXT> Yes.  Hi, guys. I'm Michelle Harrington, the director at the tech center.  I'm going to move this a little bit because I feel really short when I'm when I'm married. So over the summer, I went to a director's meeting.  A conference for three days and talked to all the directors  across New Hampshire. And a big topic of conversation was student ambassadors. How awesome it was doing in some some  tech centers and then how some centers don't have it at all.  So during lunch, I was really trying to just pick people's brains of, what do you do for a student ambassador? How does it work?  And just kind of getting all this information and across the board. It was every center pretty much did it differently. So I was like, okay, we're going to try it.  I didn't love any idea perfectly, so I just tried to make it my own.  In the summertime, my goal was to really kind of focus on the student ambassadors. And as we know, the school year kind of changed.  So I wanted to pilot it this year and just do level twos as the student ambassadors.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: And, it was really tricky to figure out who to pick in such a short period of time. So I talked to the teachers. They're all level twos, except for

[17323-30] Unidentified | Student ambassador, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - Jus | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah, we'll do some of the things that you do as ambassadors.
TEXT> So a student ambassadors like Miss Harrington said it was student led. There's one person from every program, and we take all of everything that we've heard from, like the our pupils and our peers. Yeah. And we bring together and we figure out what kind of events or what kind of things need to be changed or just, you know, student base of what needs to happen within the tech center. So if they're going to like,  like a fun day at the tech center, we're the one who kind of put those events together. If we're doing, like tours, for instance, like we did the tour with the middle school students, we kind of put that all together and set up for everything.  We did a kind of like challenge event with the level twos, I think,  they went around to different classrooms and we kind of put those events together.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So giving us some leadership in your program of of studies?

[17323-53] Don Lavalette | School Board Member; Policy and Finance subcommittees; ad hoc reconfig | 2026-04-15
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Right. Yeah.
TEXT> And again on the same line says Doctor Harrington stated that it is after a certain percentage of students. So can we get a clarification on what the percentage of students is? So our minutes are robust? Yeah. And then. Under other business, if you look towards the bottom where it says Mr. shared that there are students at the charter school that are interested. Just for clarification, could we put Riverview Charter School in there? And we don't need a partnership. We already have a partnership. We already provide services to them and some of their kids take band and theater and sports. So it's really just a matter of making the taking a phone call and saying, we've got a couple of kids that want to enroll. So that was my other follow up for there. Would would it be appropriate? Madam chair, I have a couple other follow ups just to ask about those April 1st minutes.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are they. Perfunctory. Or

[17323-154] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-04-15
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. And then the the preschool we're. Moving to May, update on the right to know request. Okay.
TEXT> So I. Did have. Some. Specifics to share about the right to know request. I will say it is a very voluminous task.  And let me just read it out. So right now there are currently 61 completed right to know requests since November 1st November hit. We really said we needed to. It was, you know, one here, one there originally. Then November came and it just kept piling up. So we started a document. You know, Jason Bonneville was fabulous about just putting it together. And it has a strike through. So as soon as we can say it's completed. So of the tab that we have, there's 61 completed right to know requests. We received requests from community members, board members, parents in the press. 11 are in progress and those are very in depth. So and those involve locating, reading, redacting, verifying, sharable and non sharable personally identifiable information about students, staff, administrators, board members and more. So those require a lot more time for that. So some have all 8000 emails to be reviewed. It does involve legal. It does involve some staff. So just to make sure everybody knows it is very time consuming.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: There are four of us who have access to this document right now. So it's Jason Bonneville, Chelsea Weatherford, myself, and then Matt. And so each request is a minimum

[17348-12] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presiding) - this cluster also absorbs parts of th | 2026-05-06
PREV> William 'Bill' Madden: I just want to say thank you because, you know, I'm a picky guy, so great job, I guess. I got nothing.
TEXT> So I'm relieved. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else  in approval of the manifest?  Any any comments on this consent agenda? Seeing no opposition, we're. We approve of them. And so no. In minutes.  We usually go on to citizens comments at this point, but I would like to make a change. I would like to have our student board rep  report. This hard working girl is going to work, and she needs to give her report before we take up too much of her time. So we welcome.
NEXT> Lily Clark: Thank you. So, as. You may know, last time I was here, I was talking to you about the senior play puffs. It was a really, really great turn out.

[17348-16] Lily Clark | Student School Board Representative, Stevens High School, Class of 202 | 2026-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: Oh.
TEXT> Sorry. No. You're fine. We had a parent. The music department also had a parent competition preview concert.  We had a bunch of people come. It was like a spring concert, but we previewed our competition music. The band played a piece that has never been performed before for anyone in the world.  Because, one of our students, Kieran Adrian, actually composed the song. He got a standing ovation at the end of it, and that has never happened at Stevens High School, which is really cool. And then Trevor Adams,  also conducted a piece.  And Miss Trudeau sat out and he did a wonderful job. Our baseball team and our softball team are doing pretty well. Unfortunately, lacrosse is not doing so well. Unified track had their first meet on April 30th. The Twilight meet and the track team has done a really, really good job at their meets that they have gone to. I actually have some stuff about clubs this time. So Key Club helped clean up the historical society to get it ready for the opening. And they keep talking about it. So I'm assuming that it went really well. National Honor Society also had  a blood drive the Friday before vacation and we filled all spots for it, which is really good. The juniors this year are hosting prom on May 16th, and the theme this year is Parisian Twilight.
NEXT> Lily Clark: And senior stuff is upon us right now. There's senior assassin going on right now. So if you see any seniors with some floaties or goggles, that is why we

[17348-31] Rebecca | Public commenter, Ward 1 (as announced); parent, Claremont Middle Scho | 2026-05-06
PREV> Rebecca: done. If there's something we're doing wrong as a school, to not get some of the love that some of the teachers that we can't get more staff. The other schools seem to have a little extra and it can't seem to come to us.
TEXT> And what about these students that are not getting the support that they need? The teachers that are not getting the support that they need? The one to ones that are required, the special education. What? You're not addressing this at all. And I know we're in April, but we're not over the year is not over. Where in May, aren't we? I'm sorry.  I also this question has been asked repeatedly,  but what's a safe number? We're very concerned that we're not going to have enough teachers. And how are we going to handle that one day? We're all scared to death. And it's really been all year where we're going to show up at work and not have enough staff, period. I mean, you're so close. These students deserve better. We deserve better. Tell us if there's something we're doing wrong as a school. Let us know. I just feel like there's a conspiracy theory that this. And I want to give you the opportunity to address it. There's a conspiracy theory that this has been done on purpose, that there is an effort to close another school.
NEXT> Rebecca: And so you're just purposely not filling. I know, I know, but it's out there and I would love to give you the opportunity to say no. That's ridiculous. Why

[17348-39] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presiding) - short-utterance cluster ('thank you', | 2026-05-06
PREV> Michelle Springer: and others. Yet here we are. What I am asking tonight is simple acknowledge reality, take accountability, and create a plan that is compliant, transparent, and centered on students. Because right now, the cost of not doing that financially, legally and ethically is far greater.
TEXT> Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other citizens who would like to comment tonight? I don't see any. Doctor Harrington, are you. All right? Thank you.  All right. Then I'm going to close citizens comments. And thank you for preempting. I was going to thank the two school board members who who did the teacher appreciation for us, Dawn Lavallée and Lauren Howard, on behalf of the school board.  As a gesture to, for the board to recognize teachers, delivered tulips to the teachers this week. And so we thank you guys for taking that on and organizing it and doing the work so well.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thanks. It was a pleasure.

[17348-68] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (through 6/30/2026) - merged cluster: al | 2026-05-06
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: 11th regardless, but we're just checking out everybody else's last day of school, so I know it's been something of interest, obviously, for everybody. We apologize. We have to go through the Board of Education, and it's just on their agenda for the May 12th.
TEXT> And so as soon as we hear it, we'll let you know what the answer is, and we'll get some more information out as soon as possible.  Moving on. So I just do need to share with you. This is from the Goshen School District. There is a letter that we have  that comes through because it's through saw six, but it also impacts Claremont. So I just want to explain the Claremont side of it. So this is to the C six board chair Mr.. And miss Candace Crawford for the Claremont School Board. So I'm just sharing what was stated. This is a letter from April 10th, and it's from Peter Brigham who is the chair of the Goshen School Board. This is dear Mr. and Mrs. Crawford, on behalf of the Goshen School Board, I offer this letter to advise you that the number 102 is not pursuing an extension to our anchor school tuition agreement that ends on June 30th, 2026. This notice is being provided in accordance with the provisions of article three of the six Claremont Goshen Unity Tuition Agreement, which is determined on June 30th, unless an extension is agreed to by both parties pursuant to article nine of the agreement. We do intend to allow any Goshen student currently enrolled in Claremont High School the opportunity to remain in Claremont for the duration of their education.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: The Goshen School Board offers best wishes to the Claremont School District going forward. However, we believe it is in the best interest of students in our community to seek

[17348-69] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 (through 6/30/2026) - merged cluster: al | 2026-05-06
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: on June 30th, unless an extension is agreed to by both parties pursuant to article nine of the agreement. We do intend to allow any Goshen student currently enrolled in Claremont High School the opportunity to remain in Claremont for the duration of their education.
TEXT> The Goshen School Board offers best wishes to the Claremont School District going forward. However, we believe it is in the best interest of students in our community to seek educational services elsewhere. On behalf of the entire Goshen community, please accept our sincere thanks for the Sussex efforts to educate our students. And again, that was from Peter Brigham, the chair of the Goshen School Board. So it'll come before the six as a whole board. But I wanted to make sure you're aware too, because this happens before the next six meeting, which will be in April. I mean, May, May 21st, I believe so 20. Okay. Yes. You're right. We've moved. Okay.  And then Doctor Broderick, I believe, is up next.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I mentioned that Doctor Broderick is spending a day, a week in the district, and he's beginning to put together some of his team. That will start on July 1st,

[17348-439] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (School Reconfiguration Exploratory Committee; sup | 2026-05-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: evaluate how those software make sense. So that so I pushed that off to October. And then I head down the discussion of filming subcommittee meetings. I'm going to ask Lauren if you'll organize this and make some recommendations. Sure. All right. Is there. Yes.
TEXT> Can you dull to me for a few minutes? I just have a couple of things. Sure. So it pains me that I have to say this, but I just want the public to know that the tulips that we delivered. There was no cost to the district. They were paid for by us  as our token of appreciation and shout out to Putnam's for handling such a big order from us. I did one follow up carry. Maybe you can help me. Has Riverview Charter School been contacted by this  tech center? As I had asked about getting those kids to come here to the tech center. Right.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You know, I apologize. No, we have to do that so we can definitely follow up with that.

[17373-21] Taylor Trudeau | Music teacher/director, Stevens High School (introduced by the Interim | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Welcome.
TEXT> Hi everyone. Thank you so much for having us here. It's really nice to get to recognize some of these awesome students behind me, and lots more that  we're not able to fit in this room.  But the music department has had an exceptional year this year, despite all of our challenges, which is really, really wonderful. Thank you. Big thank you to our wonderful community for all of their support. The bank, all those wonderful donations we got really helped us be successful this year with a really, really great group of kids. So just to hit on a couple, they've had a really a huge list of things that they've done this year  that have been wonderful. But  just a couple of those. We had six students, as you might have seen, make the New Hampshire All-State Festival this year, which is more than we've had in a very, very, very long time, which is very, very cool. And most of those students also scored within the top three of the entire state on their instrument, which is really, really cool.  That included our first  student who made the All-State Modern Band, which is like a rock style band. Who's back there? Andrew,  on the keys and some players in our orchestra, the All-State orchestra, choir and band, which was really, really wonderful to see.
NEXT> Taylor Trudeau: And people definitely kind of took note at that at the New Hampshire or the New Hampshire Music Educator Festival. Like, wow, there's a lot of Claremont students here this

[17373-24] Taylor Trudeau | Music teacher/director, Stevens High School (introduced by the Interim | 2026-05-20
PREV> Unidentified: Who.
TEXT> So just so many wonderful students.  Not only are they great musicians, but a lot of these kids behind you do so much. I'm sure many of you have heard and seen Noelle before. She's very active in our community. We have many multisport students back there, as well as musicians that made all states so just such a great community of kids. And I just wanted to,  the superintendent invited  our small group to come up to play something for you, just as a little  representation of some of the work we've been doing this year. So the group that's going to play for you and you guys can go ahead and get your hands and come on up.  Is the group that  placed a  got a one rating at the Soul and Ensemble Festival. So they're just going to play something really short for you. You might recognize it. It's a very famous cue of music called The Sorcerer's Apprentice. And this is our woodwind quintet from the high school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are you going to introduce the students? Sure. Please.

[17373-60] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Done. Yes.
TEXT> I just wondering as I know I'm beating this like a drum, but as Riverview been contacted to get that coordination for the kids that are there that want to come to the tech center.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: We're still working on that. Just to make sure. And I know Miss Jarvis is checking in to see what she can do to have that happen.

[17373-134] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (delivers the monthly finance re | 2026-05-20
PREV> Matt Angell: there were improvements made to the property for just over $160,000, which included a new handicap ramp, fire alarm and sprinkler system. Within this amount were unpaid architectural fees for 18,900. And we're right now reviewing whether that architect wants to be paid or not.
TEXT> Moving on.  And this is the final portion we have, for request for proposal or, and qualifications  that are outstanding. Tonight we're going to be talking about student transportation, student photos, food service, and then the RFQ for the sale of property. Okay. That's it.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I would like to respond to the carrying costs for the Masonic Temple there. We spent 150,000 for improvements. In fact, the board voted to spend 50,000 for that. And

[17373-347] Loren Howard | School Board Member; Policy Subcommittee Chair; ad hoc communications  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: There's a motion on the floor. Further discussion.
TEXT> It was mentioned, but they are owned by an ex 360. So it's not just Winston's. And I think it's important to read some of the paperwork that this companies put out. It's a little bit dystopian, frankly, and knowing that they're who they are, who own the food service. I know on the individual level, there's probably great people working in our schools and providing food for our kids. But I would really like to see,  especially next year, more  of an effort to get more bids. I feel, you know, we're limited in our area, but this it's really sad that this was like our  one of our only options.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Frankly, I think our deficit position scared away that one vendor.

[17373-421] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides; calls the meeting to order, controls the | 2026-05-20
PREV> Noelle Kronberg: Howard? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ryan. Rap. Yes. Yes. And it's Crawford. Yes.
TEXT> All right. We're all set on that. Okay. Moving on to the general assurances that file was attached.  So people could review it. It would be good to have a motion to  accept.  Well, no, to authorize me to sign on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: So moved.

[17373-443] Heather Whitney | School Board Member; Finance Subcommittee; chair of the ad hoc School  | 2026-05-20
PREV> Candace Crawford: I would like to have you follow up on that, but we need. Yes. The still discussion.
TEXT> Yeah. I think the only thing that is important that we do is document in the minutes that the board agrees that Mr. Howard can speak on behalf of the board and authorize, like the investigation of activities. And like we're saying, we just should have a documented that the whole board is empowering him to do that so he can go do that.
NEXT> Loren Howard: And I will keep it, especially if we're just paying the committee. I'll keep it within the scope of making this phone call with no lessons and trying to bring

[17373-466] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (Policy, Curriculum and Finance subcommittees; ret | 2026-05-20
PREV> Loren Howard: students and parents the opportunity to, to do that if they wish. I don't think that inhibits any teacher from encouraging them to do so, but I think requiring them to do so is just something I'm not sure that's something we can legally do.
TEXT> Well, I think this is a tremendous improvement because it puts a burden on the student, and the student feels like he should. He's capable of taking on the extra work or the extra effort. I say go for it.  And I understand that in Albany they have no kinds of success where they did that, and they're getting much higher scores on the Advanced Placement test. So I think this is great.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. Let's, about all those in favor say aye.

[17397-15] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: I'm leaving that as it is for now. All right. And if anyone is agreeing to the consent agenda, that means you're approving of the minutes for five, 20, 26. All right. Before we get to citizens comment, we have a yearbook recognition is Kennedy.
TEXT> Are we able to go forward right now? I would love to welcome and introduce Mr. Larry Walsh.  And some folks here. So. Miss Walsh, do you want to hold this up as a sample, or do you want to take that? So,  we just like to recognize. So Johnston's the yearbook company has done a special recognition.  So I'm just going to give a talk about it, Miss Walsh. And,  each year they look at all the yearbooks. And so this year, we've been awarded the Silver Level award for engaging yearbooks that reflect a broad representation of the student body while helping students and develop 21st century skills such as communication, collaboration and information and communication technology, ICT literacy. So we would just like to celebrate Miss Wallace and somebody from her group, her class. So explain a little bit about how it's different this year. This year.
NEXT> Hilary Walsh: It is. Hi, I'm Hilary, technology teacher at Stevens High School, and this is Chloe Smith, one of my editors. She's been with me for four years now. At started.

[17397-16] Hilary Walsh | Technology teacher and yearbook adviser, Stevens High School (self-ide | 2026-06-03
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: and develop 21st century skills such as communication, collaboration and information and communication technology, ICT literacy. So we would just like to celebrate Miss Wallace and somebody from her group, her class. So explain a little bit about how it's different this year. This year.
TEXT> It is. Hi, I'm Hilary, technology teacher at Stevens High School, and this is Chloe Smith, one of my editors.  She's been with me for four years now.  At started. Oh, I have notes. Well, I bought my notes.  Well, it started out as a club.  And we were doing it after school with probably four,  five of us, 4 or 5 of us at the beginning of the year. And it ended up there would be like three of us, maybe towards the end of the year. And we were just like pushing, pushing, pushing. And we were doing a full year book  up and like and it would come out in the fall. And when Doctor Harrington came in, he's like, well, let's change it. Let's get it published in the spring. Which deadline? In the beginning, end of March, end of February. And we're we're working on a 32 page supplement,  right now, which will get direct mail to the seniors and then, in the fall, the rest of the kids will be picked,  get it? So we'll have everything from,  all the spring sports graduation.  So they're working on that, that now.
NEXT> Hilary Walsh: So it went. Last year we brought it to the school board, put it in the program studies to bring it in as a class. And we had 18 students

[17397-60] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay.
TEXT> All right. So there's a question in I know it's up in a little bit so I can wait if you want to. The order of the agenda the credit recovery in that part. But there was also an update asked about power school versus alma. And so our student information system currently using Power school, we've been using it for a while. Our plan is to shift to alma. There was a discussion about having this  school year. We had put it off, and our goal is still to keep working on that. So there'll be a key few key folks that will get trained starting soon. There's a meeting coming up on Friday to discuss what that rollout looks like.  We want to do this gradually and thoughtfully. That was why we didn't rush into it this year, because I guess apparently the contract had been signed for for, you know, getting it started this January. We were not ready. We were not looking forward to that this past January.  We again, would like to do a thoughtful rollout.  Mister Angel and a few other folks will be meeting with  with Alma  on Friday to go over, like, what does it look like?
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: And there'll be a few key people that will get trained initially and then have a more gradual rollout to. So folks that are in power school, just so families

[17397-113] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (learning loss at the middle school) | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: building to make things work? So it's not that that's not already happening. We're already talking about it. I am just loathe to jump into a public conversation about those kinds of radical decisions before we've given the first two possibilities a really robust chance.
TEXT> My my other. And I understand that all four and kind of being able to bring in bodies into the school. But I have real concerns about learning loss that happened at the middle school this year. We haven't had end of year  results assessment yet, so  to be able to provide additional supports for the students that had learning losses this year, I'm just concerned that compounding it, they're going to be walking into high school and that we need to be thinking about how we can bring additional supports into the middle school above and beyond, just to mitigate the I'm assuming there's going to be learning loss, I can't I can't imagine that there's there's not going to be some learning loss that happened this year.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I am with you on that. And I actually think that it is likely that over the course of the next year, we are going to end up talking about

[17397-114] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: about how we can bring additional supports into the middle school above and beyond, just to mitigate the I'm assuming there's going to be learning loss, I can't I can't imagine that there's there's not going to be some learning loss that happened this year.
TEXT> I am with you on that. And I actually think that it is likely that over the course of the next year, we are going to end up talking about a multi-year recovery plan for learners, not just for you need a recovery plan for finance and operations and district administration, right? We know that already. I think we're going to be doing the same thing for learning,  because we won't know for a little bit what the impact on students has been this year. But I it's not imaginable that there hasn't been a significant impact on student learning this year. Okay. I think there has to have been and we need to see data to know what that what that means and then to figure out what we can do about it. I think it's going to be more than a one year solution.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Sure.

[17397-126] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Other board members regarding this topic. Good. Let's move on to the next one. Yeah.
TEXT> So the org chart look, this is really a draft, but I wanted to throw a couple of ideas at you. I am absolutely not asking for a decision.  I'll bring you a funding source before I ask for a decision about anything, because otherwise I'm not following my own rules. Which are if you can't pay for it, you can't do it. But I wanted to. If you haven't seen it, it's attached. It's a separate PDF in the email.  Hopefully attached in print. There's there's a org chart that was revised last fall for what your conditions were at the time. The first thing you'll notice is, is that I've broken this into two. Yeah. Right. The central office and educational programs. I have to oversee both,  but not everyone does. I'm sure Matt cares very much about student learning, but at the end of the day, I don't care how much Matt cares about student learning and even pay the bills. So it's it's a distinct,  universe. The, the biggest change and this isn't I didn't show up and come up with a brilliant idea to save you money.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: You already did it. But this reflects your budget. When you did the budget for next year, you consolidated some positions. So there's one administrative assistant position. You'll notice if

[17397-134] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Correct. And so we're kind of delineating them out, having different direct reports as well, because I'm looking at this org chart and I'm curious about what our actual direct report structure is going to be as well.
TEXT> Yeah. So. When I talk to you separately about special education, I'm going to have a lot of bad news. And that probably doesn't come as a surprise.  But the first few things, through compliance items I've taken a look at haven't looked great. And I'm going to give you an example. Again, we're going to have a lot of hard conversations. Here we are. But the truth is the truth. And this is what we have to do.  So we use where you have a contract already. You had it before I got here with a special ed consultant who I think does a wonderful job.  She's been extremely helpful,  and she's been doing great work with folks at the Dow building before I got here. You have about 450, 460 IEPs in the district. So that's roughly a third of the students have IEPs, give or take.  I asked her just last week to start taking a look at how many of them had been renewed on time. That is, without a gap between expiration and approval. There is supposed to be no gap, right? We are supposed to have IEPs that before they expire are there are meetings. There's a there's a revision process, there's renewal. And then they say this is very important when we are claiming Medicaid reimbursement, because when an IEP is expired, we cannot. We cannot be reimbursed by the MTS Medicaid schools program, for example.  And there are other liabilities that come.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It was not 50%, but it was close to 50% of the first 54 she looked at that had had a gap in approval from a day to a few

[17397-136] Heather Whitney | School Board Member (Medicaid cost capture and the special-education b | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: into compliance with federal law. And I think that's a full time job. I don't think there's any question that that's a full time job. It's also harder than it's ever been to hire people with the qualifications and experience to do those administrative jobs.
TEXT> So it sounds like there's cost capture as well that could be associated with segregating out these positions, because if we're not getting Medicare reimbursement for 50% of our kids during  how many months of window, then we could be having the mystery of why we're always overrunning our special education budget. That mystery is like, sounds like it's somewhat solved a little bit.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: We're going to have a conversation. Yes, yes. And we're going to have a conversation about spending on out of the district placements in which I've, I've taken a look

[17397-191] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: accountability for school districts. Careful what you wish for. This is an area where the department does not. You submit a school calendar, but they don't get back to you and give you an opinion on your school calendar at the beginning of the year.
TEXT> That only happens at the end when they calculate hours. And this is this is the gap in the regulation. We have this regulation that ostensibly requires 180 school days with students to be scheduled. If you schedule 178, nobody's ever going to say a word because you'll always have enough hours at that level. The trick here has been, and how does this happen? People aren't. People aren't bad, right? People do sometimes things that, in retrospect, look silly. One thing that children, parents, and teachers all agree on is nobody wants to be going to school in June, right? Parents are the first ones to complain. Typically when we have to make up snow days and I have to announce in a school district, hey, there are going to be three more school days in June. It's not the staff or the kids who complain allowed us, it's the parents who want to take the kids to the beach or go visit grandma. So there's this tension always, when can we be done?  We're going into a year where if we weren't starting before Labor Day and a lot of districts fell into a real problem with this, because there are a lot of districts where it's very important that the school boards in the community, that school never starts before labor.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I don't know if you've looked at next year's calendar. Labor day is late, very late. So if we weren't starting in August, we'd be looking at school the the

[17397-193] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/26; attending as an incomin | 2026-06-03
PREV> Tim Broadrick: it's in here. If you read between the lines, we need to give teachers a couple days that they don't normally have in Claremont before school starts to unpack their rooms, get set up at the high school. There's productive work that can be done.
TEXT> They're preparing for a visit. I there's no end of things that can be done that will be productive with the staff at the middle school, right. Particularly multi-tiered systems of support, behavior management and things like that. There will be plenty of work to be done that's productive, but it will end up that will come out of some student learning time. But if we end up with, let's say, 178 days on the calendar instead of what was going to be 100 and 72.5, we won't have to worry about structured learning time at the end, which is where the department does exercise oversight and hold districts accountable. That was too long. I'm sorry.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So if I may. So looking at the next year's schedule, see, there's a little bit of play seeing where where the calendar is going to fall. Do we have

[17397-244] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Don Lavalette: to reach out and see what we can do instead of saying if there are slots open, I, we, I want to put those schools out of business too. But I want to put it out because we are the place to come to school.
TEXT> I my comments are not to put anybody out of business. My comments are to make sure that our students in our school have the first right of refusal for those slots.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I, I get that, but again, goes back to the earlier picture. Those are kids that we had until eighth grade. And then they decided instead of going to Stevens,

[17397-245] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: I my comments are not to put anybody out of business. My comments are to make sure that our students in our school have the first right of refusal for those slots.
TEXT> I, I get that, but again, goes back to the earlier picture. Those are kids that we had until eighth grade. And then they decided instead of going to Stevens, they went down the street. So anything we can do to recapture those kids is a win, because if we were capture them, then who knows how many other kids we can recapture. So adding one student, I mean, we take kids from all over the area for regular high school classes, and I've yet to hear that discussion saying.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Only there are slots.

[17397-251] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: That's when they are.
TEXT> Questions. Claremont kids should be able to come to school.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And we provide special ed services to them. And so whatever we can do, we should do.

[17397-263] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent / Director of Curriculum, Instruction and Asses | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: Special ed budget.
TEXT> It's yes. And there are so some of the work with the coordinators can be from grant funded, but some of it is locally funded. Okay. So that is our obligation for the students and the AP. Now it doesn't mean you could potentially have an IEP for a generic things. It's not a specific program where you might be in the summer camp, but it's the summer camp is access to everybody. Whereas the extended school year is only a limited group of students that really need this extra work over the summer. There's a variety of skills that students need to just maintain things that, you know, in different programs that are, you know, very specific.  So credit recovery at the high school is the third part, for those are students who have not yet passed a course. They've earned a or excuse me, a coverage eligible an re score.  So this allows students to prove the course competency. And then to earn the credit for this course, they have to be within so many points of actually passing this course. So if you're so, so far behind, this is not what it's going to be for its students that just need this extra boost to get that course recovery credit.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: You know, Mimi Ryan's and Doctor Harrington here ones, they could answer that. But that's a very small group of students as well that are eligible for this. They can't

[17397-273] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: Days.
TEXT> Monday through Thursday. There's one staff prep day as well. So staff can come in, prepare for the kids.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And how many staff are involved.

[17397-283] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Mimi Rhines: Yeah. And then the last day will be August 6th which.
TEXT> So one of the questions that come up before is that there are 5 or 6 staff members. And, and that some of the students in this credit recovery,  completed in a day or 2 or 4 days. And yet the staff is there for six weeks.
NEXT> Mimi Rhines: So what we did last year, we will do again this year is if you have no children, then just you don't come in that day. Like if you, if

[17397-284] Mimi Rhines | Stevens High School staff member who administers credit recovery / sum | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: of the questions that come up before is that there are 5 or 6 staff members. And, and that some of the students in this credit recovery, completed in a day or 2 or 4 days. And yet the staff is there for six weeks.
TEXT> So what we did last year, we will do again this year is if you have no children, then just you don't come in that day. Like if you, if all the kids completed working, like if you have no kids left to a credit for, my guests are ready to say that you've completed summer school. I will say that sometimes you can come up with staffing. Sometimes people are out for various reasons, so other staff might cover those kids for that day. So they're the kids are supervised and worked with. So that has happened.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: And I think it's really, to look at it from a big picture, right? It's like, do you have some kids that will go in and finish that in a

[17397-311] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair (presides, sets the agenda order, controls the floo | 2026-06-03
PREV> Michael Herrington: Percentage percentage of the people that are there. I would say it's sitting at like 95%. Like, it's very rare that you have someone that.
TEXT> Most of the kids who are enrolled.
NEXT> Loren Howard: Yes.

[17397-333] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 (finance update, school lunch pr | 2026-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I think what you're talking about is the Bluff School at a higher concentration of kids that fell in under that threat or at the threshold. And so because of that, that particular school got different pricing through federal and state.
TEXT> But the problem is, is, is when we get to when we when we disperse the kids throughout the district, it brings the poverty rate down in each of the schools and makes it so neither school is eligible for the program.
NEXT> Loren Howard: That was basically what I was asking. I wasn't sure how people were divided out and what it looked like, but thank you. Yeah.

[17397-399] Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School (credit recovery and vape detectors; AS | 2026-06-03
PREV> Matt Angell: So I can tell you what I know.
TEXT> About four years ago,  I believe through a Grant Stevens High School was  had vape detectors installed in most of their bathrooms. There's a few that they're not in.  I will tell you that they are incredibly valuable.  So basically,  and I'll give you, I'll give you the same spiel I give a lot of my students  because it's important to know. So what will happen is in my email, I'll get a,  an email that says vape detector warning. Okay. And then it'll tell you the concentration of vape that was in the bathroom. And all I have to do is I have to go on to it'll give me a time. I go into  my  camera and I go back and see who was in there at that time. Okay. Now, for me to search a student, I need to meet the standard of reasonable suspicion. Right. Which sits down to, you know,  I'm 51% in a feather. I'm pretty sure that something's going on.  Which is much lower standard that the police have to meet.  You know, so, I mean, I like all my students to know that when they're in the bathroom and that vape detector goes off, that standard is now met.
NEXT> Michael Herrington: So I can go get them. I can ask them to come down to my office, and I can give them the whole spiel about the search. Many of the

[17397-456] Don Lavalette | School Board Member (term to 2029; retired Claremont teacher, former S | 2026-06-03
PREV> Candace Crawford: This falls under capital improvements.
TEXT> Well, I get that, but I don't want to get I don't want to get paralyzed by perfection and not get something done before the kids come back.
NEXT> Brian Rapp: So know of a certain junior, soon to be senior that needs some community service hours, so I'm sure there is some other brilliance.

[17418-2] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: I pledge allegiance to the flag. Of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands. One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
TEXT> Before we begin tonight.  I have a I. I'm really delighted to be able to,  have a special recognition.  I am delighted to have the officers of the Claremont  Stevens High School Alumni Association here. And on behalf of the Claremont community, we want to thank you for all the work you've done. This is our last meeting before the end of the fiscal year. And we wanted to take this opportunity. And so I'm going to  join me down there. And I think I'm supposed to I'm going to use a mic, I guess. What. Oh, thanks. So I just want to read this.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[17418-4] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Okay. It's to the Stevens High School Alumni Association on behalf of all of Claremont. The Claremont School Board recognizes and thanks the Stevens High School Alumni Association for its dedication to the community by stepping up this year and providing the services of accepting, raising and distributing donations from many for many of the important and often award winning activities that were part of the Claremont Schools this year. You willingly stepped up into that role that became much bigger and. More. Bald than any of you ever anticipated, and you carried on those responsibilities with grace throughout the whole year. The students, the parents, the teachers, the school administrators, and the Claremont School Board salute you for all of your all of your essential volunteer work that made this year's activities possible. Thank you. For you as well. And for you, Carolyn. And for you, Vic.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[17418-14] Carolyn (surname not stated) | Officer, Stevens High School Alumni Association - administered the don | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right by the podium. Because that way we can hear you and the people at home can hear you.
TEXT> I just want to say that Dick and the Association and all of us were extremely honored and proud that the people in Claremont would take their money and donate it to us and expect us to take care of those funds and take care of the students throughout the year. It means a lot to us, and I can tell you that there were no students. There were no events. There were no supplies that went negative. Everyone got what they needed all year long. And those students were very pleased. They were. I worked well with the teachers. They didn't give me a hard time. We worked together to get the supplies. I mean, it is hard. They do their own thing. Right, right. And then, you know, I can't reimburse you. We have to do an order. So I said, you do. The order on him is on. I'll come check it out and we'll authorize it, and we'll pay it through you. I'm not going to go and do their order all over again. Right. So we worked out a system and we worked well together. And if we had issues, Dick would go and talk to people. And we had no discrepancies. None whatsoever. Excellent. It's been an honor.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you. Carol. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's the lighting. It's delightful to start a meeting with such two positive ways that the community works together in support

[17418-42] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: support for that. And we just want to thank everybody for the scholarship sponsors. There was over $100,000 in scholarships that were given out on class night for our seniors, and this makes college possible for those who are, you know, moving on to college.
TEXT> And there's a variety of people, and it's always bittersweet because many of them are memorials.  And so we recognize the sponsorship for the families and things too, and so that they keep their spirit of their families living. And we appreciate that and giving back to our students. So we thank for everybody for the participation. With that just we made it past week. We had the last days of school. So we thank everybody the teachers, the pairs, custodians, administrators, students, families, community members, everybody. So we made it to the end. And in August we weren't sure we're going to make it. So it was a big accomplishment that we were able to get through for that.  Big shout out to the alumni association is always there. I mean, Saturday was the alumni parade. It was a fabulous turnout.  I think everybody had a great time. The weather cooperated with us, and it was just a beautiful day for this fabulous event and celebrating. This was my first parade to see,  but it was so nice to see all the communities show up and support everybody. And,  it was just a lovely community event. So I appreciate all the work that goes into that, and I know you probably need to rest soon, so your full time job is coming to hopefully a little bit of a pause there for you. So and all.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: All of you, I know they all did that. Yes, absolutely. Elise. Everybody. Carolyn. Everybody appreciate that. While they couldn't come tonight, we do want to just recognize Liliana Clark

[17418-43] Kerry Kennedy | Interim Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: just a lovely community event. So I appreciate all the work that goes into that, and I know you probably need to rest soon, so your full time job is coming to hopefully a little bit of a pause there for you. So and all.
TEXT> All of you, I know they all did that. Yes, absolutely. Elise. Everybody. Carolyn. Everybody appreciate that. While they couldn't come tonight, we do want to just recognize Liliana Clark and Michael Sheehan for all of their work on the board. We will have some juniors coming up to be seniors that we're sharing at one of the next board meetings, the students that are going to be nominated to be on the next board. But we appreciate all the work that they did and updates that they provided for us.  And it's always great to see our students in action and share what's happening.  And so just a few other things that we have. So I want to thank Paige Jarvis. She is moving on from the interim student services director position.  So she jumped into this role after just McCloud was helping step up. And we just want to appreciate and shout out to both of them  for all of their work. So in student services, we had a big void to fill in August and they both stepped up and to do that. So I really appreciate them and wish them well into their new roles coming up. So,  just a few follow up items.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So the exit interviews, the new round has gone out for staff. And so as soon as we get some more responses, we'll share those out. In July, we'll have

[17418-69] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026) | 2026-06-17
PREV> Tim Broadrick: in those budget lines. But these are not to exceed pay by the hour contracts with employees. Already in the last 24 hours, there's been a little rush of, oh, we might need more of this and less of that, and things will shift around.
TEXT> But, you know, staying knowing where the money is coming from is important, right? We can spend each dollar one time and sticking to, you know, sometimes you will go over a budget line, right? Something will happen and you'll need to overspend a line. That's okay. If you know you're doing it and know there's a line somewhere else you can spend. So I just wanted to give you that. Regarding the extended school year program,  which is again in progress, everything is in place. Ready to go in July, the credit recovery program at the high school. If you have specific questions about what happens in it, I know there's a more expert person than I hear about regarding the cost of credit recovery. Again, these are we don't know exactly how long every teacher is going to work, because every student needs are going to be a little bit different in New Hampshire.  We use standards based curricula, so we have curriculum standards approved by the State Board of Education. And a student earns credit in a class by demonstrated competency against the standards.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So I might have fallen short by a lot more of the work than Mr. Angel fell short when we both failed our history class. So he might go to

[17418-70] Tim Broadrick | Incoming Superintendent, SAU 6 (starts 7/1/2026) | 2026-06-17
PREV> Tim Broadrick: every student needs are going to be a little bit different in New Hampshire. We use standards based curricula, so we have curriculum standards approved by the State Board of Education. And a student earns credit in a class by demonstrated competency against the standards.
TEXT> So I might have fallen short by a lot more of the work than Mr. Angel fell short when we both failed our history class. So he might go to summer school and demonstrate competency in two standards and be done in a week. And I might have to stay longer because I have more standards that I have to demonstrate competency or mastery of. And I know at least a couple of times I've heard questions about how this makes sense. Why is it that a student goes to summer school and they're not there for as long as somebody else, and how does that all work? So on the staff side, teachers have to work with the kids, figure out what do they need,  help them access that instruction or those resources so that they can demonstrate the knowledge and skill that they need to to earn credit. More importantly, consistent with the rest of this part of my report. How is it funded?  The federal title for a grant has an activity in the 2425 grant year, which is last year, which we are allowed to spend this year as well. That grant activity is approved by the Department of Education to fund this credit recovery program for up to a total of $58,661 over the two years combined.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: So that's last summer and the upcoming program. Last summer's program cost a little over $19,000, which leaves about 39,000 available. More than enough. More than enough to do what

[17418-148] Don Lavalette | School Board member; Policy Subcommittee | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yes, Don.
TEXT> I just have some and I don't necessarily need answers tonight. As a matter of fact, I probably won't be able to. So,  again, I was looking at the, the compensation package bottom of the page. So it says we have a study hall monitor listed in there. And so my question is where is that position located and why? We have a lot of employees listed as or they have coordinator in their title. Just from the citizens perspective. Perhaps we can flesh out and describe for the public what it is they coordinate. This one's a tough one for me to bring up. So I had a parent actually speak to me personally. The parent has two kids at the high school. The kids were upset. Of course, told their parents that a teacher actually was talking to them about the middle school.  Was probably going to close. And then they went on to describe other teachers that weren't coming back. And I'm going to hold off naming names, but I just want you to be aware that that was brought to me, and I promised a parent I would address it. And so I'm sure they're watching.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Madam Chair. May I say something about that? Okay. You know, I think if you reflect on. Your experience. Last fall, right. You had no ballpark. And I know that

[17418-151] Don Lavalette | School Board member; Policy Subcommittee | 2026-06-17
PREV> Tim Broadrick: possible, I will be trying to find a way to let you keep the status quo so that we can spend a year really talking to each other and planning for the future. Which doesn't mean there might not be more changes in the future.
TEXT> Yeah, no, I understand that. My concern is why are we putting adult problems in front of kids? Right? That's my agreement that we need to carry our own backpacks. The kids have their own things to worry about, and that's being a student and an athlete. So that that's do  that with what you will.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I would just like to insert here, now that I have been made aware of various rumors that have been going around the town about different meetings that the school

[17418-161] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Mr. Angel, we have a finance update.
TEXT> The first one. This one I'm really excited to to talk about is as we started up the burpee fund this year. And so in 1921. And Bergey gave the city. $32,000 to be used to maintain, their gravesites, her and her husband's gravesite. And then the remainder is going to be coming or comes to the school district to be paid to elementary and middle school students based upon their attend their attendance. And so what we've done is, is we've taken a census of the children.  And we've taken out the kids who are technically truant. And the remaining remaining kids,  were to split, $8,204. Okay. And so, through this process,  I was able to secure $2,002 bills and.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: $1,002 bills one month.

[17418-166] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Wow. Wow.
TEXT> So the poor principals had to put cash on the students. The poor cards.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[17418-244] Matt Angell | Interim Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2026-06-17
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> So student activity funds are where,  the students are raising money for student purposes.  What you're going to find in there would be if your student is going to go to a museum. A teacher will send out a form. Can you collect this amount of money? And then, that money is getting used for admission and then transportation. This goes into a separate bank account held by the building principal. Also in that fund would be a commission check from,  the. Yeah, the student photographer.  Also, there's going to be a commission check from Scholastic for the sale of books.  And usually that goes into the principal's account. Okay. And the principal then usually  buy jackets and shoes and snow pants and gloves for the students with those funds. But it's generally money raised by the students for the students. So, back in the fall,  the building principal for Bluff Elementary gave me all the records that he had for  the student activity funds, and unfortunately, it didn't contain,  the information  by grade level. So I'm going to assume that the balance that's in there is related to the principal's account.
NEXT> Matt Angell: Okay. Now, normally what I find in school districts is there's going to be a school board policy that talks about the closure of student activity funds. I couldn't find

[17418-363] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I'm excited to look forward to July 1st. We shift over. We already got a lot working in place, so I'm excited to see the revitalization and bring it back to where Claremont was before and Claremont Educator strong. So thank you, I appreciate it.
TEXT> And this is our last meeting for the fiscal year. And I have to tell you, I was at graduation Thursday night. And I sat there and I kept thinking, oh my gosh, this is a miracle. These kids graduated and we made it through the year. I was, I was.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: I kept.

[17418-365] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair; Finance Subcommittee Chair | 2026-06-17
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: I kept.
TEXT> Thinking it all evening long how grateful I was that we made it through the year and those kids graduated. So thank you. And and it is everybody. It's a miracle that we made it. So with that, I'd like to entertain a motion to adjourn. So thank. You.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[17566-5] Courtney Porter | Presenter of the staff recognition - introduced by the chair (004: 'Co | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Okay. Before we start tonight's meeting, or the first item on the agenda is a recognition. And I think Courtney Porter is going to lead us in this discussion and information.
TEXT> I just love this new tradition that you guys have of recognizing staff members. It warms my heart.  So tonight, I'm here to share with you about  Miss Jackie Hall, and she's here to talk about the high set. But I'm going to go a little off script, because I have known Mrs. Hall almost my entire life  as a student of Way School. Anyone who remembers way school. She was a fourth grade teacher. I've also known her as she helps to support the weekend food bags that we provide to our students. Last year, we had 88 families that were receiving a bag of food every single weekend.  So when I was asking Mrs. Hall about, tell me about where all this came from. She shared with me.  Here's a story about Trinity's mission to feed hungry children.  After teaching many years, I then became a school counselor. After 15 years as a counselor at the middle school, I transferred to the high school in 2001. Every morning there was a line of students waiting to get a late pass from Nancy Rosenzweig. I noticed that it was always the same students.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: I often asked them, what would take you to get here on time. They said, food. We're hungry. Hunger and pairs. Learning. The vestry at Trinity was discerning a mission.

[17566-6] Courtney Porter | Presenter of the staff recognition - introduced by the chair (004: 'Co | 2026-09-02
PREV> Courtney Porter: counselor. After 15 years as a counselor at the middle school, I transferred to the high school in 2001. Every morning there was a line of students waiting to get a late pass from Nancy Rosenzweig. I noticed that it was always the same students.
TEXT> I often asked them, what would take you to get here on time. They said, food. We're hungry.  Hunger and pairs. Learning. The vestry at  Trinity was discerning a mission. I told the vestry, kids are coming to school late because they're hungry. The vestry discerned their mission would be to feed hungry kids, and we provided a hot breakfast for them five days a week. Each week we had a different pair of cooks. We opened at 6 a.m. there were kids waiting for us in Broad Street Park. We noticed on Mondays there were a lot of very hungry kids.  The kids would talk to us and it became obvious that they didn't eat over the weekend.  That is when we started the weekend food bag program. We would try to fill the bags with food that the children could prepare themselves.  We asked the school nurses, counselors, and social workers let us know how many children are food insecure. We filled the bags with the same items each week and delivered the number of requested bags to each school. When the school district started providing breakfast, Trinity stopped the breakfast program because we wanted to be good neighbors and not compete with the school district.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: The students that came to our church would walk to school every day. The Weekend Food Bag program is completely sponsored by grants through Claremont Savings Bank. And that's her

[17566-13] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: Claremont Adult High School. If they take the high set, they would get a certificate from the state that says that they have passed. They have they are considered a graduate. So that's the story. And. If you have questions, I could answer them maybe.
TEXT> Jackie, I'm delighted that you're sharing much of this information. I know you and I have talked a number of times over the past few years  your concern about adult education and what happened to it  when Doctor Broderick came on this summer? That was one of the first things he talked about was adulthood. And we need to have something here. And his report will talk about that later. But I'm sure you're happy to hear that. I know that you have been an advocate for helping these kids get their high set  credentials, and and it's so important for them in terms of employment.  It's it's really  and I know that you've done it for free. No one's been paying you for doing all this and for a long time. How long would you say you've been doing it?
NEXT> Jacqueline 'Jackie' Hall: You mean without pay?

[17566-72] Kerry Kennedy | Director of Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment, SAU 6 - delivers the | 2026-09-02
PREV> Kerry Kennedy: to be able to come back in, meet with their teachers, go over their assignments, do a few activities to go along with your assignments, and then they get a chance to check in with their their teacher, their advisor and then really go through.
TEXT> It's still similar. It's not summer school also where it's like you come in from 8 to 3.  And so summer school is specifically that that's a program. It's designed specifically for a set number of students. These are individualized. And if you'd like more information about that, we can get some more specifics on the credit recovery numbers.  But for the Issi the question had been for the numbers. So the extended school year this past year,  this past summer, we had the K-1 students coming in. There were 17 students receiving their services. In the second and third grades. There were 11 students receiving their services. In fourth and fifth grade, there were 17 students  K-1 self-contained, which is a separate program. There were six students receiving their services  and then the Partner Visions program, again, very specialized instruction for those students. Those were 11 students at the middle school total. There were 11 students.  There were three who were specifically in their life skills, their special needs, self-contained program time.  And then the high school. There was also the students in there. So  again, those are minutes of service for their IPS, not a summer school program.  And just, you know, again for the credit recovery.
NEXT> Kerry Kennedy: So one thing and I appreciate Doctor Harrington's feedback from the staff. It's a little bit trickier to go back into the summer for something that might have happened in

[17566-211] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - calls the meeting to order (000), asks 'Noel' to  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Tim Broadrick: after which we do somewhere around 4:00. So I think that might be a factor there. Look at also be certain days of the week, Saturday transportation is available for those kinds of things. But most of our athletic contests are going to be weeknights.
TEXT> So if there's a game on Saturday, it's not impacted. If there's a game at 3:00 or 4:00 in Fall Mountain, it will be impacted because we don't have any driver  that can get the kids there for a 4:00 team.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: 4 or 430 at Interlaken would be a great example. Yeah, probably no chance. Unless it's a weird day of the week when there's one substitute driver who's not a

[17566-274] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: to pursue that. And so the follow on to that is this what's the process needed for us to add a vocational program? Do we have to coordinate or check out other that's other sites. And then I get a follow up to that. Yeah.
TEXT> So  I have a limited I have some understanding of this. So I'm happy to answer the question. But we might get to the limit of my understanding here.  The way it works in New Hampshire.  I feel like we're a little trapped in that. If a program exists at other tech centers to close for us,  the department won't approve it here,  that sometimes that might create opportunities. For example, if another tech center nearby had an lab program in health occupations and for some reason was unable to run it,  I would suggest we jump even when we have a lot of other important work to do to try to establish a program like that if the opportunity exists, because those of us in the vocational world know that there might not be a more valuable  program we can offer to kids that many students should be interested in, then something like a licensed nurse assistant program. But if they.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Know you've you've nailed what I was looking for.

[17566-277] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Tim Broadrick: If they have, oh, did I come up with the right example?
TEXT> Yes. You have a look at that. So so here's my here's my agitation.  Brian and I spoke long ago about bringing some emergency services into the  tech, and I was stunned to read that Newport now is offering an emergency services program in their tech center.  And so that tells me it's open season to just do what you want, because I can't imagine for a second that the Claremont School District said yay to something without going to the school board. So so we're going to send kids probably to Newport for vote  for something we could have offered here easily.   And so  that just irks me to no end. So if they don't need our permission, then it should be in our best interest to develop what we want to develop for our kids and move forward. Because obviously, there was no conversation that took place between Newport and Claremont that I'm aware of. Right? So  it's just it's not it's not a good thing. For years I was told that you had to coordinate with schools. Okay. Well where was the coordination there. And that's a program that we could have offered much. We have a bigger fire department.  Everything's here. So anyway, that's my education with that.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: And my my basic understanding of the situation stems from just a couple of days ago. I, I would like to have an automotive program. So I asked, other than

[17566-355] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: whether the hat is worn or not. That's that's number one. And so so is there a general consensus about hats? Number one. Does is there any concern? Is there anybody who has a passionate feel that hats should not be worn in school? Okay.
TEXT> Two  okay, I guess what I  would like to focus on is really what's the purpose of the dress code? And it's not simply to regulate the dress of kids and to impose like this top down imposition. It's to  set standards and help guide. And I think  especially in a district like ours where we have a lot of  kids in struggling environments that may not have, Standards set at home,  and we'll go into the world not  being accustomed to what certain professional standards would be and what expectations would be, and part of the dress code and and  the  handbook, which I really liked  when I read this, is that all students should consider work to school to be a work setting. It's really important. School is really important, and you should show up ready to work, and it should be taken very seriously and we should treat it. The board should treat it seriously, and I know the administration treats it seriously. But part of the imposing a dress code is saying that this is how we want our kids to feel in school. We want our desks clean, we want the the schools painted. We want pride in every everybody who walks through the door having an elevated sense of pride.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And also it should promote professional image. I think that we should be kind of that should be our guiding light when we're thinking about this dress code. It's not

[17566-357] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: bit or piece, you know, that's it. And like, how how do we make sure that doesn't happen and we just create some kind of general framework. And I am a little, you know, and I have to say I want no pajamas in school.
TEXT> I don't want just one piece of pajamas. I'm like, no pajamas in school. Nobody should wear pajamas to school.  And  slippers.  I mean, there are some slippers. I think we have to be  our clog kind of slippers. And then there's real slippers. And I honestly don't think you should be wearing slippers to school.  So that's my only  ask of the dress code. And of the policy is that we  we we think about it in the way we want our kids to view their  place in the school, and it should be  elevated.
NEXT> Unidentified: That's all.

[17566-383] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: Certainly makes sense.
TEXT> It is  as a benefit to the student  and. But otherwise, no.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: You're correct.

[17566-448] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: the obtaining credit, which I'm very in support of the 306 rule about being able to move forward and graduate early. Yes. How do we actually I'm just curious. How do we actually that how do we facilitate that? How early can a kid graduate.
TEXT> If I would respectfully say talk to Bill.  So I know I'm going to tell you. And the reason why I'm going to do that is and I think,  you know,  and this is the best story I have  on it.  Well, there's two  there was  a student by the name of  Willman who I enjoyed very much, who came in, and he struggled his first semester and didn't pass a class. And I think that in three years, really two and a half for him,  he graduated with the highest diploma that we have because  the administration and his father worked very closely together  and developed a plan for him to accelerate his learning, which consisted of classes in school and also online work.  And it is really individualized this year. What I've done with the school counselors is that we are instituting a new  practice, which has  a much needed boost to the planning of each student's coursework and where they want to tie it to, where they want to be,  and they can accelerate, you know, at their leisure. We have ability to do,  you know, relax classes, odyssey where classes, online learning and can accelerate through there.  We've also had extended learning opportunities  and we have a lot more flexibility. So really it depends on how hard that  your student wants to work or how hard you want to make your student work in some cases.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Also, I saw that at 30627 Z required that the school board have a policy that is relative to counting, achievement and demonstration of graduation competencies for coursework earned toward

[17566-460] Heather Whitney | School Board member (Ad Hoc Reconfiguration Chair; Finance Subcommitte | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: No problem.
TEXT> And the credit recovery  do the teachers facilitate the in during the year kind of planning of getting the kids up above that 49.5 and 69.5 to keep them kind of out of the summer school program?
NEXT> Dr. Michael Herrington: Oh.

[17566-463] Dr. Michael Herrington | Principal, Stevens High School - answers Lavalette's question to 'Doct | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: We.
TEXT> We try our best. Unfortunately, some of the executive functions of our students at this age aren't aren't really the best. We've got some phenomenal teachers that do a lot of communication home with teachers. What I have done over the summer is write a lot of procedures  to kind of facilitate this, and a practice that will be  that we've gone over in the  PD days that we've had so far, is that in a two week period, every advisor will sit down with every single student, go over their grades  and email their parents and any teacher whose  grade is not passing. So there will be a continued communication at least every two weeks from their advisor, and then added on to whatever teacher they have.  So that will be up to date.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: On page 13. We no longer redesignated students if they do not earn sufficient credits to move on to the next level. What does that mean and why did it

[17566-508] Tim Broadrick | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the finance and superintendent's repo | 2026-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: For sure.
TEXT> A third of the kids in a school should be on some kind of an athletic team all the time.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Yes. Okay, so we have a motion on the floor to approve the handbook.

[17566-563] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: So let's discuss beyond the Comic Sans. Yes.
TEXT> So a couple of things man.  So in general the formatting and the direct siting of policy, there's just there's a lot to a lot to be reworking. But if this handbook is for athletes then let's put athletes handbook instead of athletics handbook.  Right.  And then I'm just going to go through my list.  So immediately after the table of contents is a listing of all sports by season. Yet there's no mention of unified sports. Why. Can't do that   under CMS and Stevens High School athletics. The second paragraph, if you want to read along, says activities are one of the. And then the second sentence says activities provide. I think they meant to put athletics in there because as it stands, it just really doesn't  any sense. Under requirements for participation. Item number two mentions competency in the quarter. Well  CMS doesn't use quarters. So we need to address that within that policy okay. Because that that will have an impact on students participation.   And again under academic probation. The last sentence in the first paragraph says when grades are reviewed quarterly, again, there's no mention of CMS does not do cause.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Under practice and game attendance, it makes reference to choose to participate in athletics at Stevens High. And so we need to include CMS in there and make sure that

[17566-570] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: I don't.
TEXT> Know,  under rules of conduct and training rules, it says activity. Participants must always remember that participation in activities is a privilege.  Do you mean athletics  under parties and cyber images? The second paragraph first sentence ends with of a violation of the code.  What code? Bro code. I don't and I don't mean to be smart alecky, but those are the questions that I'm just sitting there thinking about. And then it goes on to say we'll be disciplined as follows. And it just goes into nothing related to disciplined as follows. And so that needs to be reorganized.  And within that item, one first offense says counseled by the resource counselor. I  don't know if that's accurate. I don't believe it is  under three AI.  It says an appeals committee. What appeals committee? I'm on a school board and I have no idea. That is an appeals committee for that I. 14 under student assistant program.  What in whom my question what in whom or part of this program because it states must be attended by the student and the parent. And then it further mentions required to complete an educational program, what  what program and  what's who's on the student assistant program. And so how does that all happen?
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Lord.

[17566-583] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Brian Rapp: You sorry? I thought you were done.
TEXT> Again under student assistant. Program number two says the student must complete community service hours. And so my question would be that needs to be clarified to make sure it's equitable.  Right. So if I like Joe, he's the only going to have to do two. But Susan's going to have to do five because I don't really care for her attitude. So if you're going to put it into a document that we're going to approve, it needs to have some clarity in there. And then it mentions the I will contract, and it would be nice if I saw a copy of the I will contract because I have no clue what that means and who approved the I will contract. I'm  I support that that what it is. But  the third asterisks under student assistant program mentions bullying and then it goes on to say may result.  There's no way it should say may result should result. And it should mirror our bullying policy period.  It should be no  nothing.  Next one awarding of letters.  I  need more clarity other than determined by head coach.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: After consultation with the activities director. And again, because the word tradition is mentioned earlier, I would argue and the ad says something, the fact that it's impossible to put

[17566-614] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - the chair recognizes 'Don. | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: school dress code for athletes for boys dress pants, no denim jeans, shirt and tie, or a turtleneck along with a suit, coat or sweater is acceptable for girls. Skirts, dresses or dress slacks no denim jeans along with a blouse or sweater are acceptable.
TEXT> Why I like to. I like this. My question is, does the school board approve this? And it's interesting that this has been a tradition that no one blinks an eye on yet. Think of all the time we've invested just talking about school dress code and sitting within our one of our documents is a is a dress code. So I just take that for what you what you want. It just it didn't make sense to me that we have that I get the idea I support it. But  under transportation to a non playing event, the last Senate says many times this transportation costs must come from student activity funds.  So to me that was a red flag that that needs to go away  under publicity and media. Item one the last sentence needs a couple of items omitted. It still has the Eagle Times and Oetker News. Yeah  under substance Abuse item one.  And this is my notes. I wonder if vaping should be included. And again, like other parts only see Stevens is mentioned, not CMS. Maybe use Claremont Athletics. Something of that sort  under fundraising. I wonder if the entire section needs to be  changed in scrubs because it talks about student activity accounts, fundraising approved by the ad.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: I thought we moved away from that, so that came to mind under teams individuals staying overnight. Item one itinerary approved by Addie. And this. This worries me because the

[17566-752] Loren Howard | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee Chair) - answers the chair's  | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: Opposed? Nay. Okay. So first read is accepted. Okay. Go ahead.
TEXT> And then lastly we had done a revision for J. I  see which I'm going to talk about. But I don't think we should  make a motion on tonight because that's when I really wish that would have been online for people to see first. But nonetheless, we just clarified our metal detector policy  and put it put language pointing to JH  about student searches. So  now I think I'm going to make a motion to approve or sorry, I'm going to make a motion to move  the revisions of JKA and GBA to second.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Read second. Okay.

[17575-4] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. So let's discuss beyond the Comic Sans. Yes.
TEXT> So a couple of things, man. So in general, the formatting and the direct siting of policy is just there's a lot to lot to be reworking. But if this handbook is for athletes, then let's put athletes handbook instead of athletics handbook. Right.  And then I'm just going to go through my list. So immediately after table of contents is a listing of all sports by season. Yet there's no mention of unified sports. Why. Can't do that?  Under CMS and Stevens High School athletics. The second paragraph, if you want to read along, says activities are one of the. And then the second sentence says activities provide. I think they meant to put athletics in there because as it stands, it just really doesn't any sense.  Under requirements for participation, item number two mentions competency in the quarter. Well  CMS doesn't use quarters. So we need to address that within that policy okay. Because that that will have an impact on students participation.  And again under academic probation, the last sentence in the first paragraph says when grades are reviewed quarterly, again, there's no mention of CMS does not do cause under practice and game attendance, it makes reference to choose to participate in athletics at Stevens High.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And so we need to include CMS in there and make sure that there are no further exclusions to that. Next one was under the athletic department specific objectives. Number

[17575-7] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Don Lavalette: wait. Room is an important facilities. Well, we don't need a plural there. And again, I'm not trying to tear this apart, but if it's going to have Claremont's name on it, we ought to do our damnedest to make sure it's coherent and right.
TEXT> Next one under warning and safety equipment in all caps. If you want to follow along. It says, by its nature, comma activities, comma include no idea what that was was was I don't know. Under rules of conduct and training rules. It says activity participants must always remember that participation in activities is a privilege. Do you mean athletics under parties and cyber images? The second paragraph, first sentence ends with of a violation of the code. What code? Bro? Code. I don't, and I don't mean to be smart aleck, but those are the questions that I'm just sitting there thinking about.  And then it goes on to say we'll be disciplined as follows. And it just goes into nothing related to disciplined as follows. And so that needs to be reorganized. And within that item, one first offense says counseled by the resource counselor. I, I don't know if that's accurate. I don't believe it is under 3AI  it says an appeals committee. What appeals committee? I'm on a school board and I have no idea. That is an appeals committee for that. I. 14 under student assistant program. What and whom? My question what in whom or part of this program because it states must be attended by the student and the parent. And then it further mentions required to complete an educational program. What what program and what's who's on the student assistant program. And so how does that all happen?
NEXT> Loren Howard: Lord, I'm going to withdraw my motion. I think I think these are great notes that should really be sent to them and really corrected. I think the the one

[17575-16] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: Sorry. I thought you were done.
TEXT> Again under student assistant program number two says the student must complete community service hours. And so my question would be that needs to be clarified to make sure it's equitable. Right. So if I like Joe, he's the only going to have to do two. But Susan's going to have to do five because I don't really care for her attitude. So if you're going to put it into a document that we're going to approve, it needs to have some clarity in there. And then it mentions the I will contract. And it would be nice if I saw a copy of the I will contract because I have no clue what that means. And who approved the I will contract. I, I, I support that that what it is. But,  the third asterisks under student assistant program mentions bullying and then it goes on to say may result. There's no way it should say may result should result. And it should mirror our bullying policy period. There should be no nothing. Next one awarding of letters. I need more clarity other than determined by head coach.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: After consultation with the activities director. And again, because the word tradition is mentioned earlier, I would argue and the adds says something. The fact that it's impossible to put

[17575-53] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - reads his handbook critiqu | 2026-09-02
PREV> Loren Howard: Yeah.
TEXT> Under substance abuse item one I and this is my notes. I wonder if vaping should be included. And again like other parts only see  Stevens is mentioned not CMS. Maybe use Claremont Athletics something of that sort under fundraising. I wonder if the entire section needs to be changed in scrubs because it talks about student activity accounts, fundraising approved by the ad. I thought we moved away from that. So that came to mind under teams individuals staying overnight. Item one itinerary approved by a D. And this. This worries me because the school board approves off campus trips, taking kids just on to Boston, and there's nothing in here that the school board has to approve an overnight trip that I just didn't. Worries me that,  under thunder and lightning,  it's talked about earlier in the document, and it's. So it's a repeat offender here. Next one under school rules. Rules item one, next to the last sentence, it says the athlete will be required to sit out contest meets upon returning from the trip. And this whole section, if you really read it closely comes across as district policy.
NEXT> Don Lavalette: And I found no reference to it in our policies. And I bring that up because in other sections of the document where they talk about hazing, the school board

[17594-132] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: I think this is terrific. And and it's because you were so astute and aware of the and and acted immediately. And and thanks to the Department of Education for their cooperation and quick response. Yep. Also, will the students from Newport becoming here?
TEXT> Yes. So we have one student right now coming. They're actually taking two programs. They thought they wanted to take the program, and then they wanted to see if there was opening in culinary. We had one opening left in culinary. So now they spend half the day over here. So they're in college because I opened it up to that level two time frame. So they're here for culinary one and then in level two medical assisting. But it's only a level. It's a level one class. But during that time. So and then can I so Julia Kelly is a amazing resource that she's a teacher and she's actually working with the trainers as well.  To go to all the sports games so the kids learn to tape ankles and be a part of it, because the trainer was kind of inundated with having to wrap so many ankles that they weren't getting it done. So our business class made embroidered backpacks so they'll have scrubs, they'll have the gear when they go to the game. They'll know how to  how to wrap the ankles. And they already signed up for the next three weeks. And they'll get community service hours for it. And it's kind of an incentive. Like if you work,  I forget like five games, you're going to get a sweatshirt.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: If you work seven games, you'll get like a jacket. So it's kind of just instead of just giving everybody everything they work towards it. And then during basketball season

[17594-134] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: then during basketball season they might get a nice polo. So she's been hitting the ground running. I feel like all the new staff here are just so excited like I am. And we have a fantastic team that's going to do some great things.
TEXT> It gives those it gives the community,  awareness of the, of our students also. And as they go to those sporting events and see,  the, the logos and see the kids in action. I think that's great. Will we be able to get any of the equipment from Newport?
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: We are working on that. Yes.

[17594-149] Michelle Herrington | Principal, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center - self-identif | 2026-09-16
PREV> Michelle Herrington: and now they're working on projects that they want to do. So that's machine tool. Every single program we've we've worked really hard to build enrollment, but I just don't want numbers at the tech center. I want the right students in the right programs.
TEXT> Because if you don't, you have a great intro class. Nobody's taking the level one class. If you just fill the class with kids that don't want to be there.  So in level one or an intro classes, if they sign up for a level one class, we do an interview process with them.  Me and the teacher go in and we explain what makes it. What is a level one program? Are you committed to the two year program? We look at their grades. We look at their schedule to make sure that they are able to do this. So that's really helped with enrollment. And  so if you look at every single program has had an increase in the last three years, and then in quarter two, we're still in negotiations with  and hiring another teacher to do exploratory CTE. So this teacher will be teaching seventh and eighth grade, and they will try to incorporate all five of the programs except for machine tool, because they're going to get that in 22 days. So the kids will come in and just get a little taste of every single program that we have here so that they can when they pick their classes for high school, they know what plumbing actually is, not just what they think plumbing is, because it's completely different.
NEXT> Michelle Herrington: If you ask a seventh grader what plumbing is, it's not what they actually do. So so if you if you add the students that we're going to start for

[17594-247] Don Lavalette | School Board member (Policy Subcommittee) - recognized 'Don.' (022, 31 | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: All right. Moving along. Yes, Don.
TEXT> I just have a couple things for the superintendent. Sure. So I took the liberty of looking at the Naia website, and I just want to pass along a few ideas. And before I do that, I'm just. I'm of the nature that if you offer it, I think they'll come out and try it. And if you don't, you'll never know. So that being said, I printed off some things for for Doctor Broderick, and he's probably aware of this, but I didn't realize that bass fishing is actually an NHA sport. And looking around us, Fall Mountain has a team. Kearsarge has a team. Keene, Lebanon and Newport. Prospect Mountains on here, too, for whatever reason. Boys and girls, cross country. And there's a there's a reason why I chose these. Here's another one. I was surprised that. And I know if my son was still in high school, he would have gone for this coed esports sanctioned by the NH, a, unified sports. We could probably be offering soccer,  if we chose to do that. And wrestling and of course, our neighbors just to the east,  have a pretty good team. And I chose all these because they, they don't require a lot of money to get started. They just don't.  So I know I'm just one of seven, but, boy, I'd be interested in having the a, D and superintendent pursue these opportunities for our kids. I just we're missing the devote. Pun intended. Yeah,
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: It's..

[17594-326] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: In which one is. This.
TEXT> JC a okay.  The use of force by a person to defend himself or herself or a third person from what the actor reasonably believes to be imminent use of force by or  unlawful force by a child. When the actor uses a degree of such force which he or C reasonably believes to be necessary for such purpose and the act. This is what I don't understand, and the actor does not immobilize a child or restrict the freedom of movement of the torso, head, arms, or legs of any child. So it's saying you can protect yourself or another kid, as long as you don't restrict the move of the kid's arm that's doing it, it doesn't make sense, right?
NEXT> Don Lavalette: Well, essentially what practical terms? That you can't put a kid in a headlock, that.

[17594-347] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School - the draft minutes name her ('Me | 2026-09-16
PREV> Candace Crawford: Thank you. I owe you big. I think.
TEXT> Again, different age groups.  Different strategies. Right. Doctor Harrington at the high school versus me with a kindergartner. Very different. Right? I mean, I think the gist of it is we don't want anyone putting their hands on children if it's not necessary. That's the bottom line  and the way it should be  any. You know, we do have staff trained in a physical management technique. If the if the need arises and that's the threshold for that is pretty high. It's if the student is a danger to themselves or others  and, and the, the  sense of danger has to be pretty high. Not just that a little five year old might kick me. That's that's not that's not a high threshold for danger. If a child is coming at you with a pair of scissors. Right. There's a higher threshold of danger there. If it's an 18 year old in the high school taking a swing.  That's a very different threshold as well. So I mean, my. And I think that's why we we suggested it go to the attorney was because it is a it's it is a pretty sensitive subject. And you know, the central messages don't put your hands on kids if you don't need to. And the need for the need to put your hands on children needs to be incredibly high.  And after many de-escalation attempts have been made.  I don't know if that helps or.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Thank you.

[17594-392] Candace Crawford | School Board Chair - opens the meeting, runs the agenda; addressed as  | 2026-09-16
PREV> Heather Whitney: Well, we just were very good during the finance meeting. We were we really felt was super important to have the board involved and and preemptively.
TEXT> We want to act on behalf of the.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: 400%.

[17594-403] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Tim Broadrick: how the installer wasn't available. Earlier this week, I picked up the phone. I called the company that sold them to the district, and I said, come pick them up. And an hour later I got a call and they will be installed next Wednesday.
TEXT> Excellent. One other thing.  This is related to athletics. So Athletics Facebook page. I used to be pretty, pretty robust. A lot of a lot of lot of photos of of different events.  It's pretty much non-existent.  Since the season started, there have been  a couple of posts about  girls soccer. Girls soccer. August 28th. August 31st. First, there was a post about a bunch of different upcoming games. And then there hasn't been anything for the month of September except for, Last night there was a post about the girls soccer team. So we have a lot of athletes that are doing great things.  Some recognition to that, to their hard work. It used to be pretty ongoing and as you said, robust. I'm just wondering what's going on. Why? Why aren't we supporting these kids like we used to?
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: I've had personally strong opinions about this kind of thing for a very long time. I wrote an electronic communication and social media guide for a school district ten years

[17594-407] Brian Rapp | School Board member (Capital Improvement Subcommittee) - the chair cal | 2026-09-16
PREV> Don Lavalette: That.
TEXT> Our athletic director controls that one. There are  other people posting on behalf of themselves. They take photos at games and that's great and we like that. But again, the district page seems dead.
NEXT> Tim Broadrick: Well, I think I, I your point about equity, you use the word, but that's the word I took from this as well. Taken. Mr. Lovell talked earlier about, you

[7313-3] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: science out. Those are considered middle school classes. And so we've taken them out of our course of studies. I'd also like to point out we have three new classes in here that have gone through the Curriculum Council. We have in. Science on page.
TEXT> 21. We're happy to offer a forensic science course and  very excited about that. We feel that that'll be something that'll have a high sign up rate from our students, and that'll be taught  by one of our new teachers, Robin. And  if you go to digital technology on page 26, you'll see at the top digital art and design and at the bottom multimedia arts and design. And those will be co-taught with our computer teacher as well as our art teacher. And students can elect which credit they get for that, whether it's a computer  credit or a an  art credit. And so the idea being that they will get the computer side of that on an a day and the art side of that on a B day, and that kind of collaboration between teachers is, is what's really exciting to see  as a, as a principal, where teachers are starting to have those conversations and getting really excited about creating these new courses that are are geared towards our students interests and making them very competitive as they leave us.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Speaking to to the issue around physical education and dance class. And I, I totally agree with with comments about the need to not just maintain a status quo, but

[7313-4] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: is what's really exciting to see as a, as a principal, where teachers are starting to have those conversations and getting really excited about creating these new courses that are are geared towards our students interests and making them very competitive as they leave us.
TEXT> Speaking to to the issue around  physical education and dance class. And  I, I totally agree with with comments about the need to not just maintain a status quo, but increase our students physical education opportunities. There's there's no doubt in my mind, I right before coming to this meeting, I was at an alumni meeting  with Aaron House, our athletic director, and Brad Eaton, our fitness coach, talking to the alumni about the importance of the fitness and weight room and an aerobics room at Stevens High School and the need that that's not just for our athletes, it's for all our students. And so we're,  you know, being charged with the need to cut the budget and find ways in which to save. But looking at ways in which we are providing those,  activities in different venues by different people trying to look at out of the box opportunities for bringing those kinds of things into the school and giving students what they need, but not necessarily within the confines of a traditional PE class. And so we're feeling confident that we're going to be able to do those things for our students and continue to increase those opportunities we are offering. You'll see under the performing arts, a dance choreography class, which would be taught by Miss Cahill, who has her  bachelor's in theater arts and has a background in this. Is she a PE teacher?
NEXT> Patricia Barry: No, she's not, but we did feel that it was important that currently we're sending our students out of the school and and the to a a class that is

[7313-5] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: students and continue to increase those opportunities we are offering. You'll see under the performing arts, a dance choreography class, which would be taught by Miss Cahill, who has her bachelor's in theater arts and has a background in this. Is she a PE teacher?
TEXT> No, she's not,  but we did feel that it was important that currently we're sending our students out of the school  and and the to a  a class that is not being taught by Stevens High School teachers. Excellent program, excellent opportunity.  The the studio has done wonderful things with our students. Again, it was where could we look for cost savings, bring things in-house, and start to look at different ways to provide that curriculum to our students. So and please pay no attention to the last pages,  41 to 43. Those are placeholders. Those are not representative of the  course directory that's in here. But we will people those lines with the Stevens High School courses once this is approved by the board and will put page numbers. So  this does not represent currently what's in the program of studies.
NEXT> Rebecca Ferland: Can I just ask a couple questions.

[7313-24] Rebecca Ferland | Claremont School Board member (addressed as 'Becky' [127], [250], [599 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: Exactly.
TEXT> Okay. Then I have another question that has to do with the budget. And this paper, if you look at the top of page ten where it says Library Media Center on the budget, it says that we're going to get rid of the library of media para. So you're telling me that one person is going to be able to do all of these things? That's very concerning to me, because I understand that the the person in the library is there to meet the needs of the students, but I don't know how that person can be two places at once when they're also providing resources to classroom teachers. I know that when any kind of,  media goes out of the library and it doesn't work in the classroom, that that media specialist is asked to go in that classroom and to help get things going. So who's going to be in the library with the students? And so I'm just really concerned about this idea that we're not going to have a parent in the library, because that is a very important part of the school. And when kids leave the high school and go to college, they spend a lot of time in the library studying and doing things. And I believe that there needs to be a para in that library media center. In order to meet this criteria that you have put here.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: You're absolutely right. This was written by Jane prior to the budget as it currently stands. So this is this is her expectation with a para. Should the para position

[7313-43] John | Claremont School Board member (first name 'John' per chair [52], [566] | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: for that, that special student, under those special circumstances that has shown that they have the curriculum, they've met the competencies, they've they've done the work they don't fit into into the other categories to give them that option, to get a diploma from Stevens.
TEXT> And just as a follow up in other school districts, if we didn't have block scheduling and we had period scheduling and we actually moved, lowered our,  credit requirements, but not our rigor requirements, but the credit requirements lower towards the state. It seems like we could offer,  we could offer the taxpayers of savings in, in potentially bodies that would take to instruct. And I've asked this numerous times, as I've been on the board along quite a while, is if we have any of our students getting a 27% or 27 credit diploma, which is actually five more than state requires. That's a lot of blocks of teaching. And I'm not saying to lower the rigor for English in math and science and things like that, but you're you're showing us here for diplomas where you can meet the requirements and you're holding the rigor the same.
NEXT> John: And is it possible to change some of these electives into, what do they call them, a clubs after school where some of them really are themed? I'm just I'm

[7313-48] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: or whatever it is and, and spends the next four years in the theater and then finds gainful employment in that it will have been worth it if one child gets that spark in that interest because of a class that they took at Stevens.
TEXT> So, you know, we could reduce it. Obviously, that's that's the board's choice. I think it would be ill advised. This this is this is a solid educational experience for our kids. And it's going to there's, there's it's difficult not to find something you'll be passionate about as a student in four years in this program of studies.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Must be cooling off. Sort of a few different ones, if I could. The, and I, I almost hate to open up this one, but there is reference in here

[7313-52] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (named 'Corey LeClaire' by the superintendent [180 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: four and passed away? Whatever the next one is, is we still just haven't brought this to a closure and a clarity, I think that allows us to fully explain and communicate the good stuff that's gone on. You're going to wait into it to.
TEXT> So  almost a year ago you heard from a and and a lot has happened since then, although it hasn't  come to any finality in front of the board, there's been a significant amount of progress made around our our current reporting system of student achievement. There was a steering committee formed shortly after that February meeting.  We conducted surveys of staff, of parents, of students related to the grading system as it was implemented at the time, and  basically conducted an audit of that entire system. That steering committee continued  their work. They they shared their recommendations with this board back in June of 2014 and has has continued their work this fall. At this moment in time, we have a draft of a reporting student achievement document. It has been developed by teams from each grade,  span. So an elementary team, a middle school team and a high school team from the saw, not just Claremont School District, but across the south is is now,  under review by the steering committee. And we met before  our last board meeting last week. I think it was,  we got through a good portion of the document in terms of conversation and discussion, pretty much through the elementary portion and most of the middle school portion. I'm looking at the three people who were in the room with me at the time.  We needed to continue the discussion.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we have a meeting scheduled for next Wednesday to continue that discussion around the high school section. But in that document, you you will see that the answers to

[7313-95] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Patricia Barry: now that we have these this flex time hopefully built into next year's schedule, that once a week we would have a school meeting, a school community meeting in the gym and or by class, maybe freshman sophomore in the auditorium and then junior senior.
TEXT> And we sit and it's face time. It's not over the intercom when a bunch of stuff is going on for, you know, 2 or 3 minutes in the morning, it's principal, administration, guidance counselors and the kids in the seats. And we all talk to them about those kinds of opportunities. What's going at Stevens this this week? What are the things that are out there for you for community service? And it's a weekly community meeting.  So those are some of the things that I hope will help that inner culture, but also that communication piece.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We're also coming into presidential election time shortly, and we know they love to come to Claremont. So it's a great opportunity. We talk civics with Richard, but you just

[7313-100] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (first name 'Pat' per chair [177]; surn | 2015-01-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: with development within the city. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Sorry I got a little long winded here, folks. I appreciate that. It's on here as an action item. The program of studies was tonight informative or is tonight requiring an action? We up against a deadline?
TEXT> Well, we are in the sense that it needs to go to the printer and we need to start scheduling. However,  there have been some important there's been some important feedback to me this evening around. Clearly, I wouldn't want you voting on something that isn't fixed with, especially in the diploma requirements, so  I can make those changes there. Still, like I said, until we have the grading information that will be left blank, but for the purpose of getting it into the hands of our students and our guidance counselors, I can make those changes and then get it out to the board electronically within the next day or so. If you want to do that.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Well, we have another board meeting on the fourth. It happens to be early in February, which is sort of nice. Can it wait till the fourth for a final

[7313-128] Cory LeClair | SAU 6 administrator (named 'Corey LeClaire' by the superintendent [180 | 2015-01-21
PREV> Bob: So how many of them? Families at the town of Charlestown actually have? Infants? Are preschoolers at the center?
TEXT> All of the child's town families have children in the center.
NEXT> Bob: Yeah, I understand that. But how many kiddos. Yes.

