[15253-60] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School administrator - self-identifies at segment 113 | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: No, I don't I don't have the summary sheet.
TEXT> Okay. That was sent. I don't. Remember seeing  the summarize change. It just highlights what was changed from the prior. I mean I did I did read the whole everything that all the changes are in the handbook from that.  We were made aware today that there were some questions regarding the dress code, related to how ours compares to Stephen's. Obviously Frank Romeo, the principal at the middle school, is not here today. And he would be the final word on that. I did kind of go through this evening and put together a comparison of the two. Most of the items in CMS dress code align with those of Stephen's in just different spots. There's some that  are more specific on the Stephen's side, some are more specific on the CMS side. Some of them are specific to like one of them  is specific to the middle school because we have 1 to 1 lockers for our students and the high school does not. So there there's some of the changes that were in there. I don't know if you want comments.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Dress codes on page 39. Thank you.

[15253-80] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School administrator - self-identifies at segment 113 | 2023-08-16
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: to broaden as the students get older, because they're more independent in their thinking and the types of decision making and consequences. But having it be something that is built upon as the students go through, rather than having a myriad type number of programs.
TEXT> So I will say the advisory piece is completely separate. Advisory is first thing in the morning with our students. That is about making relationships and connections with teachers and students. It's where we work with students on remembering to look at their grades and stay up to date on their assignments and,  some social emotional learning pieces.  Is.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: There a program that is put into place during advisory that has specific topics that are.

[15253-136] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School administrator - self-identifies at segment 113 | 2023-08-16
PREV> Bonnie Miles: Okay. Okay.
TEXT> Thank you. And I would add to that, that these kind of replace the old at one point it was called guidelines. You know, the kind of tracks it was at one point it's been called a myriad of different names. But that room where any kid that was in trouble got sent to that room. And so  middle schoolers being what they are, I have a buddy in seventh grade. I got a buddy in sixth grade. Hey. And you know, in third block, you do this so you can get. So it kind of cut that out. They couldn't play that little game.  And it really did help flatten a lot of the behaviors.  They worked more closely with the grade level teams having the academic centers as opposed to having guidelines, tracks, whatever it was in the past. And I think the kids even really saw it more as a partnership and less of a naughty room, if you will. And so I think that helped.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah.

[15254-82] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board member - the chair recognis | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Oh, Frank. Oh, Jen.
TEXT> Okay.  Thank. You for putting this together. I just wanted to. Angela mention one thing that I noticed in the open ended comments  that I think I should call attention to for everybody watching.  One respondent wrote that I think the district needs positive PR  for CMS to help the public see the wonderful things students and staff are doing at the school. I couldn't agree more with that sentence. The parents also need to be told that they need to treat school employees with respect, because most that I came across did not. I have never been sworn at so many times in my life than in my one year at CMS by parents, as a parent in this district. I find that statement to be absolutely appalling, and I think we should all do better because our children are watching us and we can't tell them to treat people with respect when we're not modeling that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Thank you. Thank you. Very good.

[15254-101] Unidentified | SAU 6 Board member - unprompted question on the exit-interview packet  | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: the middle on the right. All right. Yeah. Okay. I'm glad we have that. I wish more people would respond, but I get it because people will do that to me all the time. What was your service like? Oh, yeah. Okay, throw it out.
TEXT> So,  I have a question. Yeah.  So  at one of the, at the top where it says,  what did you least like about your job? And then it goes into lack of resources within the department, like, not enough special educators of Paris. And I know that children with IEPs often are identified to have one on one pairs. And the lack of pairs in the classroom. You know,  I know federally is a problem because every child has an IEP and they need to meet their federal recommendations for a child to have a one on one. So I guess I'd like to know how that's being addressed for those children and how we're working on to bring in pairs,  at a pay where they're able to stay in the district and support children  with these needs that they have.
NEXT> Mike Koski: Good. Ask Ben to answer that.

[15254-104] Unidentified | SAU 6 Board member - unprompted question on the exit-interview packet  | 2023-08-17
PREV> Ben Nester: been public about this, but we've we've had several meetings and Angela was in the with the Teamsters who now represent the union. And so we, you know, as an administrative team, have expressed interest in coming back to the table and renegotiating that contract.
TEXT> Yeah. It would be nice to see, you know, really us to focus on some increased salary for these pairs and these special educators, you know, with the increase in IEPs that we see in our district.  And that we have the support these kiddos needs so that if we ever were, you know, audited by the feds, that we're not going to get dinged because we didn't have the actual supports we need for these children in classes. And so that sticks out to me, because teachers can't be both. They can't be, you know,  special educators, and they can't be the pair as well if they're in a classroom alone with 4 or 5 children who have IEPs and they need to do one on one work with them, and,  you know, take time out of their day to address some of these concerns. And so, I guess my thoughts are, is to really advocate for some salary increases so that we can be competitive and bring in the supports our teachers need. You know, because it goes on to say that they're overworked. You know, and  and there's some challenges with them being overworked. And I wonder if some of that burnout has to do with the lack of supports in the classroom.
NEXT> Unidentified: And, you know, I'd advocate for, you know, really considering, you know, looking at those supports that these kiddos need because they're the ones that lacking, you know, these teachers

[15254-105] Unidentified | SAU 6 Board member - unprompted question on the exit-interview packet  | 2023-08-17
PREV> Unidentified: supports our teachers need. You know, because it goes on to say that they're overworked. You know, and and there's some challenges with them being overworked. And I wonder if some of that burnout has to do with the lack of supports in the classroom.
TEXT> And,  you know, I'd advocate for, you know, really considering, you know, looking at those supports that these kiddos need because they're the ones that lacking, you know, these teachers may be tired, but these kids with special needs are really, you know, lacking in what they they need under their IEPs.  And so that, for me is a huge proponent  as part of a solid foundation for some of these kids in the school district, is recognizing that, including unity. So I'm thinking as a whole.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Do we still have para openings at this point?

[15254-113] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member, appointed 7/19/23 - the chair recognise | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Candy. Just to.
TEXT> Reflect on that.  The  visioning committee, that was one of the things that we were looking at to have, a childhood education and training of the pairs at the as a CTE. Yeah.  And we were proposing to start that this year, which was and using the,  the kids that are here for the early. Yeah. The preschool. Thank you.  As kind of a lab for the training.  As part of that pair of program, which I think would be a nice fit. Lots of ways.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Yeah. Isn't that how that program used to run?

[15254-129] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member, appointed 7/19/23 - the chair recognise | 2023-08-17
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yeah. Yeah I have the comments. Candy.
TEXT> I'd just like to  pick you back on Jen's comments.  I was really upset when I read,  the comment, and I think the public needs to be aware of this. I really dislike being aggressively sworn at and verbally assaulted by parents at CMS on a regular basis. We've heard a number of issues at the middle school regarding bullying, and I think as parents need to set a good example for our children. And,  I never want to see our employees being treated like that.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: Any other comments? So I believe the purpose of implementing the exit interview was to take the data and help us with our goal setting and strategic planning and moving

[15254-328] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Board Chair (elected 7/13/23 over Marjorie Erickson on a show of | 2023-08-17
PREV> Mike Koski: Things, folks.
TEXT> I would like to take a minute and compliment the work that you've been doing. You haven't even been here a year. And I get a sense that things are moving forward. And I and I agree, I would like to get periodic updates as to how things are going and the organization that's falling into place. And I think that the team that's sitting here is really doing an excellent job, and I thank each and every one of you on behalf of the board.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I would hope. Yes, I agree.

[15286-77] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: We also posted it on the school website, the Facebook. We've emailed all parents. And we also, have forms that will be using and during our open house that will be on September 28th from 6 to 730 at Stevens High School, the open house.
TEXT> And we're really going to  do what we can to make sure that students feel  comfortable enough to fill out the forms will be there to assist them.  Myself and Courtney will also be putting out email that any parents who can't make it to open house or don't feel comfortable coming to the school, we're willing to bring the forms to them and help them film out at their house. So, we're trying to do everything we can to get the word out there and making an easy process, a non-threatening process, and also a confidential process. And I know sometimes  open houses aren't the most confidential, but we're hoping to  have it in spot where families can come in and feel safe to do so. With the assistance of many of us helping out fill out those forms. One of the bigger question,  what is going well, I guess it all depends who you talk to. I mean, the kids, I think in regards to the yonder phone rollout,  some of the questions that I've had in general is that initially when I looked into these phone pouches,  I submitted a grant, a title grant, and whatever reason, the state didn't approve it.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So I had to go back and tell John to saying, under the circumstances, I just don't have it in the budget, to do this. And they said, well, if

[15286-78] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: the kids, I think in regards to the yonder phone rollout, some of the questions that I've had in general is that initially when I looked into these phone pouches, I submitted a grant, a title grant, and whatever reason, the state didn't approve it.
TEXT> So I had to go back and tell John to saying, under the circumstances, I just don't have it in the budget,  to do this. And they said, well, if you're willing to continue with the program,  we're willing to because you're the first school in New Hampshire to undertake this, we're willing to grant you,  the product and help you out with the process. And that worked out to be probably a little over $11,000,  that we're able to do this program.  And so  the rollout with students, faculty and staff, everyone did a great job, especially the students. They come in the morning, all students have pouches. Will they have phones or not? They all have pouches. Some kids don't have phones. Some kids leave their phones at home. Majority of the kids  as they come in.  A bunch of us are there. They they they show us their pouch, and the phone is in it, and it's locked up before they enter the building. They keep the phone pouches on them, so we're not taking them with them.  We have a total of five stations in the lobby and another three stations that a portable that myself and the other two and the other two assistant principals were dispersed at the end of the day in different parts of the front of the building.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So we don't have backup. It really hasn't been a backup at all in regards to having kids come into school and leaving. Kids have been very impressed with the

[15286-79] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: have a total of five stations in the lobby and another three stations that a portable that myself and the other two and the other two assistant principals were dispersed at the end of the day in different parts of the front of the building.
TEXT> So we don't have backup. It really hasn't been a backup at all in regards to having kids come into school and leaving.  Kids have been very impressed with the level  of acceptance of doing this.  You walk around the school and I've heard from teachers and and staff and even some students that, you know, a couple students came talk to the teachers of myself and said they're learning more now if they didn't think they would like it, but they're actually learning more, there's less disruptions in the classes, teachers appreciating that they don't have to always worry about kids getting on their phones. I think the thing is, we understand is, is the the reason why we really did this. I mean, helping and taking away that distraction from education is only second to the reason why we did that and that safe and healthy schools. The reason I did this because over the last couple of decades, we've learned a lot about,  what we should be doing in schools in regards to keeping kids safe and some of the things that has gone wrong in all these unfortunate school events is that we've learned that phones can actually, really,  put us at odds when we're in a situation like that for many reasons.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Some of the things that take place is that intruders have been able to locate where students are in the building because phones are going off. They're able to locate

[15286-80] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: schools in regards to keeping kids safe and some of the things that has gone wrong in all these unfortunate school events is that we've learned that phones can actually, really, put us at odds when we're in a situation like that for many reasons.
TEXT> Some of the things that take place is that intruders have been able to locate where students are in the building because phones are going off. They're able to locate where people are in the building because of the social media and posted. It's also  when people have phones in the building, they're making calls out there, bringing more people to the area that's unsafe, not allowing to first responders to go about their first priority, which is,  getting to the students and and securing the area. So,  you know, I just wanted the board in the public know that's the main reason we're doing this in second, it is really creating  the atmosphere feels different at the high school, and I welcome any school board to come in any time you want to. And I'll walk you around and you can just take a look at  you can see that you go into the cafeteria. Now kids are actually talking at the tables.  You you're walking around the halls.  Before, there weren't a whole lot of kids in the hallway, but we did find that they were out longer than they needed to be.  We keep data. We know how long every kid is out of the classroom. We've seen the average time of being out of classroom to ten minutes gone down to like three.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: There's not any many kids using their hallway passes. There's a lot more engagement in the classroom with each other and with the teachers. And it's just great to see

[15286-81] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: we did find that they were out longer than they needed to be. We keep data. We know how long every kid is out of the classroom. We've seen the average time of being out of classroom to ten minutes gone down to like three.
TEXT> There's not any many kids using their hallway passes.  There's a lot more engagement in the classroom  with each other and with the teachers. And it's just great to see kids interaction interacting with each other in the hallways, in the classrooms during advisory.  So, you know, like I said, that's only second to the to the safety  that we now have at the school. Like I said, every kid gets a pouch. And even if the kids leave their phones at home, that's fine.  And they'll tell us that. And it's empty pouch. That pouch is really just kind of getting them through the door, because what we're trying to do is that kid, we we if we find pouches and we have,  that students are. Meet for whatever reason, they, they left them around. So we need to know what kids don't have their pouches. So in order to, to find out who they are. So coming in, if they don't have their pouch, we're able to identify who's pouches those are. But it's kind of like, using almost like a student ID to get in the building, whether you have a phone or not.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: All kids, they have their pouches. And it's been really good so far. We haven't had any students. The first day we had one student who didn't want to put

[15286-82] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: find out who they are. So coming in, if they don't have their pouch, we're able to identify who's pouches those are. But it's kind of like, using almost like a student ID to get in the building, whether you have a phone or not.
TEXT> All kids, they have their pouches.  And it's been really good so far. We haven't had any students.  The first day we had one student who didn't want to put it in the pouch. But beyond that, you know, you know what? Close to 500 kids. We haven't really had any problems.  We have not had, knock on wood, any vaping in the bathrooms at this point. I'm not saying this is all because of the phones. We're still on that honeymoon period,  but for right now it is adding a whole different level of,  change in the building with with kids and interactions that were all able to have with each other.  I said there was a huge increase in the social interactions, positive impact on building relationships, improving school climate in a positive way. And  we also on top of that, we continue to do the student recognition cards. And this year,  last year was the first year we did that. And it was a great success. But this year, what we're really trying to do, and we work with the teacher saying these cards are meant for the kids who usually fly under the radar, those kids who do what they're supposed to do every day.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So hoping that's going to increase the amount of cads. But we're recognizing those kids who don't get recognized. What we found last year is that they because it was

[15286-83] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: it was a great success. But this year, what we're really trying to do, and we work with the teacher saying these cards are meant for the kids who usually fly under the radar, those kids who do what they're supposed to do every day.
TEXT> So hoping that's going to increase the amount of cads. But we're recognizing those kids who don't get recognized. What we found last year is that they because it was our first year students, teachers were using them to, you know, they were recognizing kids what they were supposed to be doing, but it kind of was using it as almost like, there's a student who's been off task for a while and, oh, they were one day on task and they gave them a card, forgetting the kids, the other kids in the in the building who do that every day and weren't being recognized. So we're kind of shifting that a little bit in regards to how we use student recognition cards. And we keep track of that and healthy competition.  Right now, the the Red House, the beginning of the alphabet is reigning champs. And so the silver House will overtake. Try to overtake that. But  great house meetings. The kids  all had good questions. They were very respectful, which I'm never surprised that another thing that we're doing well is with three of us. We've really continued to use the discipline matrix as in a consistent level. We're to the point now after using it last year. Kids do come in, say this is why you call down. We have the conversation, we give them the matrix and say, so what does that mean?
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And I think it really helps with the students where we're seeing that. They're seeing that we're not making different decisions for anyone based on who you are, what you

[15286-86] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: a little difficult. What I can tell you is that our numbers went down at least half of what they were over the previous year. And so that's why the state reached out to us and wanted to know if our numbers were reported accurately.
TEXT> So that's I think that's great news. It's it's showing growth  for the students and the teachers.  The other thing is what else are we doing? Well, I said, so this year we'll be working with the TLC Family Resource Center to begin a tobacco and nicotine intervention program.  And I will share the this document to you in Google Docs, because there is a link there that you can click on and look at the curriculum that we'll be doing. And this year, the advisories will stay together every day so we can incorporate these learning opportunities during advisory time, which is the 47 minutes we have every day. And so we're also working with Dartmouth-Hitchcock on a  vape program that will also be able to use advisories to educate students on various stuff. So those are the first two topics we'll be covered in advisory. And like I said once, do the Telc family resource, the other ones through Hitchcock and Youth camp. So we get a lot of community support coming into the schools, which is also great. Any unexpected challenges? I don't think we, you know, we haven't really seen any unexpected challenges, you know, but at the beginning of the school year, you know, we do encounter some challenges right now.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: I think the biggest one we have is the heat in the building. And those buildings are the high school gets tremendously hot. I went around today and took temperature

[15286-87] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: community support coming into the schools, which is also great. Any unexpected challenges? I don't think we, you know, we haven't really seen any unexpected challenges, you know, but at the beginning of the school year, you know, we do encounter some challenges right now.
TEXT> I think the biggest one we have is the heat in the building. And those buildings are the high school gets tremendously hot. I went around today and took temperature and all the classrooms. Right now we're averaging probably around 11:00, 1030 to 11:00 today. The third floor by the windows were 110. The classrooms were 90. And that's not including humidity. And that was with the fans open in the doors open in some of the windows open second floor, you're looking between 88 and 90, without humidity. So the teachers are trying. The kids are trying,  can make people moody, but I think everyone's doing a great job keeping it together.  We're trying to get as much ventilation as we can in the building, but the problem is, the last few nights, we haven't been able to  suck the warm air out in the cold air. And because there really hasn't been any cold air. So that's been the biggest challenge right now, is dealing with the heat. I think it's at an unsafe level right now in the building.  The air is very  stagnant. It's muggy. The walls are actually, you know, sweating. So I think that's the the biggest,  if we would say unexpected challenge, at least for me.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Not, you know, my second year here being in the building. I already talked about how the how the, couches were being made for it's not coming out of our

[15286-91] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: actually go to the college and take their classes and freshmen would be, in the building with a person monitoring the online classes. So we were going to be able to still give students their education if we weren't able to fill those science positions.
TEXT> And we were lucky enough that we, like I said, hoping for the best, but planning for the worst. We did. We used it, wasn't  budgeted it. We had the money in there. We  used it for a study hall position because we needed that person for,  if we were going to do the online classes. We're still waiting for two of those science teachers to start sometime next week. So because we were able to add in all of our classes, curriculums and stuff into Odyssey, where which is our own program, these kids are able to use Odyssey where and printouts from the study hall and online stuff. So not even though the teachers aren't here, their education is still taking place. Let's see, how was the high? How was the high school? Accommodating conflicts and student scheduling for music? Chorus high level academics? Well, I mean, we have power. School runs about $100,000 of difference of scenarios in regards to maximize and school scheduling based on what we put in for,  restraints in the system. The past years, there's been a lot of  restraints put in.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So the the system was not able to utilize, the scheduling as that. We took out a lot of those restraints. So there are always some students who must make

[15286-95] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Chris Pratt: the first one I'm looking at. Could the classes be longer. Yeah. They could, we could go up to I think right now with period schedule, we could go up to much as 58 minutes schedule. There are other things you have to look at.
TEXT> You know, with the 2023 and 27, you know, graduation credits need to have. Is that, what is it going to look like? How many, you know, and this would be a board decision would have to make, you know, if we decide to go with the period schedules, what does that look like in regards to how many classes kids must take to be fully enrolled? You know, I would, you know, my recommendation, like anything would be, you know, out of the eight periods kids would take seven because of the their we want them. We want them in class.  You know, but they could take up to six. But if they take in six, what does that leave them? That just leaves them in a study hall when they could be taken a class. So those are the roadblocks that, you know, down the road will have to look, look at as a team in regards to school team and the school boards and making some of these decisions. If you decide to change your schedule,  are there budget requirements being discussed in the high school budget prep? Not as of today. But, you know, we have time to do that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And that's something that I think most administrators keep an eye on their budgets, and they look at what was spent last year to the previous year. You know, any

[15286-118] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Thank you.
TEXT> Know, I want to thank my staff in my administration because I'm only as good as them. I look at myself as a systems manager. They're the ones on the ground doing the work, and all the credit goes to them because they're working hard and the kids are too. I mean, it's they're part of  creating  a great place, which Stevens High School is in. I think the we'll continue to grow in the community is supportive.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So thank you.

[15286-139] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yeah, we have some outcomes.
TEXT> The only thing I forgot to add is that we we have Excel, which is it's an online program and we have it for English, math, Spanish. And we have it for science, for lower level sciences. And  so that's a personalized learning that we, they, we give them their, initiative initial assessment. And then that creates their own kind of, their own learning plan in areas. And once a week they take a ten minute benchmark and it automatically gives them what they need to work on. That's good to bring up their score. And then teachers can also assign stuff to them also. And so we're also using advisory time for that. Kids are required to work on that. And teachers can also assign homework and also incorporate it into their lessons. So there's individualized learning plans for every kid in math, English, the kids who take Spanish and then the be like ninth grade science.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yes, I did have a constituent citizen reach out and say that they were waiting for Chromebooks to go out. Is there anything we can tell the community about.

[15286-141] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Mr. Pratt from  | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes, I did have a constituent citizen reach out and say that they were waiting for Chromebooks to go out. Is there anything we can tell the community about.
TEXT> That today?  Most kids will have their Chromebooks as today. They can't hear you. Oh, sorry. Yeah, I checked on that today, and,  we're we're right on schedule. We had planned on getting all the Chromebooks out by the end of the week, or actually had a schedule. I think all the Chromebooks will finish being passed out today. I had a few parents reach out, and we were able to  give them some clarification in that. But the kids go into the Chromebooks, they're not going to be penalized for not being able to access some of their stuff at home,  so we took care of that. We have some Chromebooks we're looking at replacing, but I think as of today, everyone has their Chromebooks.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[15286-149] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - the board's de facto roll-calle | 2023-09-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: I think it's important that the community here is what said yes. So, if you would just you don't need to do word by word for word, but if you could paraphrase what the questions were. So it can be, you know.
TEXT> Yeah, I will. I'll  hit the high marks. And if I miss anything, I can circle. Back and so forth. So there was a question about the charter school and the potential of the the new program, the academy, we're calling it being housed at the charter school.  This is something that we've we've discussed internally, but not something we've formally approached the charter school about. It's not something that Chris and I discussed with them on the 25th. When we met there, we felt it was a little, you know, be preemptive to do that at this point. Talk to Mike Tempesta about this as well. The  the next question was, the number of students we identified for the new program. And. As  I go in my answer, I go on and say that, yes, we did look at that early in the spring.  As far as the logistics around the charter school, the  the charter school has set a cap for themselves at 20 students this at present time, due to lack of staffing to support the full 40 students that they're licensed for. They are licensed for 40 students grades 9 to 12. And last week or the 25th, when we met with the director, they have 13 students enrolled, 12 of which are high school Stevens High School students. And for the students have an IEP.  There's also some questions that came up about our obligation to the charter school, in particular financial obligations.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So I just want to offer clarity that the the only obligation the the district has is to provide special ed services to the students in the charter school. That's

[15286-150] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - the chair introduces 'the alter | 2023-09-06
PREV> Ben Nester: we met with the director, they have 13 students enrolled, 12 of which are high school Stevens High School students. And for the students have an IEP. There's also some questions that came up about our obligation to the charter school, in particular financial obligations.
TEXT> So I just want to offer clarity that the the only obligation the the district has is to provide special ed services to the students in the charter school. That's required.  But there is no financial obligation to to fund the school or pay tuition. The last piece we are we have a template of an MOU that was developed by the Department of Bad and other stakeholders. That is something that's required of subject school districts and public charter schools. So we have that. We're going to have that signed and you know, on file with the state. There's some  questions about partnership. You know, our view, in my view, Mr. Tempesta, view and others is we're thrilled that there's a charter school in town.  We see them as a partner, not as a competitor. We see that them as a real benefit to the community. And, you know, we look forward to to partnering with them.  You know, Kathy Pellerin I've known for. 8 or 9 years. She used to be, you know, more intimately involved with the district. And we were in regular contact. So we have a great, great working relationship already. I know Heather Shepherd from her time at Granite Hills School and have a working relationship with her. So, you know, personally, I'm looking forward to a really smooth  partnership with  with the new charter school.
NEXT> Ben Nester: There was a question about is there a duplication of efforts, meaning the charter school and the academy. And yes, to some degree, there's there's somewhat of a level of

[15299-128] David Ryan | Dr. David Ryan, outside facilitator hired by this board 8/17/23 at not | 2023-11-09
PREV> David Ryan: to negotiate a contract, obviously getting the input from folks in the front line, whether it be administration or or teachers, to understand what the impact of any type of negotiation in a contract is going to have on their ability to manage a school.
TEXT> And so just broadening and this goes across  the whole organization, broadening the opportunity for school district employees to participate at the table  in,  manageable, reasonable ways. So we're not going to ask every teacher to participate in every conversation every day that we have something. And so that's something that should be developed in  broadened as part of the communications program. So those three key results really touched on a lot of what was born out of the data that was provided to us. And so we want to ensure that  those are activities that can take place that would ultimately demonstrate that you are effectively communicating with the rest of the community. An objective number two student achievement.  Much of this was  was drawn from,  the the board's natural and the superintendents natural inclination to want to improve student learning and,  and time on learning. And so some of the key results that came through the information,  introducing research based strategies that replace or build upon, build upon existing programs and structures. This was language that was  developed using the superintendent's goals, particularly around here at this institution. Looking at how we can get more folks into  the early childhood education program, and I believe the nursing program as well.
NEXT> David Ryan: Key result to the Saw will review assessment data and provide longitudinal reports. So really talking publicly about how our our students doing in terms of standardized and any other

[15299-129] David Ryan | Dr. David Ryan, outside facilitator hired by this board 8/17/23 at not | 2023-11-09
PREV> David Ryan: upon, build upon existing programs and structures. This was language that was developed using the superintendent's goals, particularly around here at this institution. Looking at how we can get more folks into the early childhood education program, and I believe the nursing program as well.
TEXT> Key result to the Saw will review assessment data and provide longitudinal reports. So really talking publicly about how our our students doing in terms of standardized and any other type of benchmark assessments that we are administering and ensuring that we're sharing that with the public, but also  how we addressing those gaps and opportunities. What are we doing to  one talk to each other about data? What are our protocols? And two, so what what are we doing about it? How are we providing the necessary interventions? What are the resources we're going to be devoting towards those,  those results? Three the city will have an updated professional development master plan. I know it has a PDM because every five years we have to renew it and send it up to  the state Department of Education. They require us to do so.  This is just something that is an opportunity to, you know, when we look back, hearken back to bringing more voices to the table, having a large group of folks kind of take a look at the the Professional Development Master plan, ensuring that it aligns with these goals  and ensuring that it  is going to do exactly what it is that we believe it should and what our teachers and administrators need.
NEXT> David Ryan: And then key result for compile an annual needs assessment for teacher learning and provide timely district sponsored workshops. This is really about, again, that taking the temperature piece of

[15299-138] David Ryan | Dr. David Ryan, outside facilitator hired by this board 8/17/23 at not | 2023-11-09
PREV> David Ryan: it is that they're supposed to be doing. And you're guiding and supporting them along the way. And that's something that I think every saw really ought to be endorsing every year in their goal, writing, number two, establishing a recognition program for staff members.
TEXT> If we want people to stay, we've got to let them know why we love them, and we want them to feel really good about being here, and we want them to smile when they come to work, and they want to have their peers celebrate them, but they also want to celebrate their peers. By far  teachers of the worst shares of  positive stuff about themselves. But they will go out of their way to applaud their neighbor and say how great their next door neighbor is. We have to make sure that  we're recognizing the Herculean efforts of our classroom teachers and our principles. All of our employees, particularly now, where we know that student behaviors in a place where we have not seen in any of our careers, and that we still have a long way to go before we're able to kind of reestablish what  we consider to be acceptable student behavior for all kids. And so just being able to recognize people for the amazing job that they're doing in an earnest and purposefully way. Excuse me, number three, the board will support innovative teacher development and recruitment programs.  Again, hearkens back to the strategic plan,  a number of different documents that we received ensuring that when people are here that  we are providing mentors, that they have quality  programing for how they can grow, looking at what their career projection is going to be like.
NEXT> David Ryan: So for instance, you have teacher leaders. You would love to recruit them to take on administrative roles and groom them and help support their preparation for administrative roles, because

[15311-63] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-09-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Moving on to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Oh. I'm sorry. Can I ask you a question about the student board position? So when do those elections take place?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We should have that already, but I. I'll follow up with Chris Pratt. Usually they put it out to faculty and in students. I mentioned it to him in the

[15311-113] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: I mean, I can't speak for bluff, but that's how Maple does it. Fourth and fifth grade students are given the option, so I would assume it would be the same.
TEXT> And I and I do know,  particularly at the middle school with the really advantages the kids with the money that they have a bunch of new instruments weighting. Those numbers have been growing constantly. So it's a good thing. So yeah, and that's I think that was all the question. Yeah.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Good question. Do we have an update for how Black's courses are going at CMS?

[15311-116] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Candace Crawford asks a 'follow up q | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I don't I don't know if you checked. Yeah yeah yeah.
TEXT> Excuse me. So there's a shortage of math and science at both seventh and eighth grade.  Into. So to fill that gap, there's a sign the kids up for classes. They  there were some technical issues about getting emails and accounts, and parents had to verify those. And so that was that's being worked through. I'm I think everybody's got their accounts at this point. With the new hires, there's, some discussion about how we now move out of Vlachs. If we can get these new teachers positions, and transition to classroom instruction.  And then so that's still being kind of worked out.  But it looks like as of now, seventh grade will continue. Math and science. Because we don't have positions for them. Potentially we have positions for  math in eighth grade, and then we might be able to fill with extra teachers teaching extra sections.  So that we could we can move our way out of the, but we have to we have to figure out that transition plan still.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Like so. If memory serves, we not offering advanced math this year?

[15311-129] Mike Koski | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 - Candace Crawford asks a 'follow up q | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And, and.
TEXT> And they have online teachers who take the students through the class. And the students have meetings once or twice a week with those online teachers. And so we're, we're getting the content area material to the students through this method. It's really so.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Half of the seventh grade have a teacher and half have this program.

[15311-144] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - recognized as 'Mr. Tempesta' at seg | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Yes, that is nice.
TEXT> And it's the goose egg. It's a former colleague used to say. Yeah, on the cost. It's free. And we struggle with that because what? What if we did an outlay. Got other if we had to pay we  in  Mr. Kosky and and cat also looked into other programs as well. But there was a cost factor. And then if we got that that would have been more of an outlet for the district. So I thought it was very clever. And I don't want a slight  Principal Pratt either. Who did? He's been doing the same type of training with his Odyssey, where as well, to bolster the kids so that they don't fail throughout the year, that they can make up chunks which might seem like it's revolutionary, but it's not. But it's it's he's been really determined to do that with the Excel stuff. And it's going a long way. So. Well, two different breeds of cat. I mean. Your. Your deal is. A course.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: In Odyssey. Where is, credit recovery basically. Well it is, but they they're tailoring it. And I think the biggest thing before is when we talk about alternative schools and

[15311-146] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: on PD really dedicating the time to to dig into that and really build them out. So and it's yeah, it's, it's going well. So it's not the be all and end all. Nothing will replace a teacher in front of kids but it's helping.
TEXT> Yeah. A quick question of how about the parents. How do they feel about the children taking the courses? They feel like I want hands on first.
NEXT> Mike Koski: You know? Sure. I mean, that would be the ideal, right? Yeah. But given the circumstance, they're okay. They could only have a half year of science content or a

[15311-185] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board, presiding in Chair Heather Whitney | 2023-09-20
PREV> Bonnie Miles: 230.
TEXT> When the kids get out. Yeah.
NEXT> Bonnie Miles: Yeah, I can imagine that's probably going to take like forever because the school is so big compared to the other ones. But it'll be very interesting. Yeah.

[15311-265] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: The 306 is the minimum. Standards in the review.
TEXT> It's the,  competencies. Thank you. It's the competencies. It's student learning competencies. And I thought, all  right, I'll just give it an overview, get a sense of what it is. Well, it's 139 pages long. Yes, yes. And in reading the actual flier that's  on our website, it indicates that a lot of this work was done without transparency, without input from the public, from parents and families and the New Hampshire  ASC, d for supervision, curriculum development did put in did get some input into that. And they're lined up side by side on that document. And I just felt that I was not educated enough to be able to host a listening session where we were. This group was coming to us for our feedback. And yet I'm not knowledgeable enough. I don't feel that I've been educated in any part of this. To be able to be a host or part of a hosting session. So I  think I, I don't know how the rest of the board feels, but I don't feel that I'm prepared to be part of the host that so I mean, look at all those pages. So I just want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just throw in my my $0.02 worth on this in the, back in 2012, probably 10 or 12 years ago, we went to the original competency based. And this is

[15311-345] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-09-20
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We've been so close, but we haven't.
TEXT> I went to  Disney Open House yesterday and it was such a fun time, and I want to compliment everyone who was involved in that.  Mrs. Lewis's husband was making hot dogs, cooking hot dogs on the grill. The PTO was wrapping and making sure kids had watermelon and snacks. They did that for half an hour, come and eat, and then the actual open house where the kids and families went inside started at six, and this cookout started at 530. It was packed. Everyone was having a great time. And it just it's so rewarding to go and to see it and to meet people and talk to everyone. So I think there are five other open houses or four more open houses. I can't do them all. Let's talk about maybe we can do another one.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Next Thursday.

[15311-348] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-09-20
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You're doing you go to Maple Lap, right?
TEXT> Yeah, for my kids. But next Thursday is Stephen's High school open house. And. Right. And then that Saturday is seems is Fall Festival, right.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: And Maple Ave, I know it's bluff and the middle school have, I believe, have their open houses on the same day. But one is 5 to 6 and one

[15336-148] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Capital Improvement subcommittee - deli | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Because that's what that's what it says to you. Yeah.
TEXT> Yeah. The that estimate of actual food service costs. I think what they're trying to say is an estimate of the food service cost just to feed the kids, and not the administrative costs that go into administering the food service. But that just needs to be worded more clearly.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. They're also encouraging them to submit a broader resolution for consideration that speaks to all required services beyond food services. That's how I read it.

[15336-229] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the 10/4/2023 meeting to order,  | 2023-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead.
TEXT> Heather. So it's not specific at all though. No, no. So that's the problem. That's my problem. Again is just advocating to the legislature for a universal subsidized meal program for all of our kids. So it's advocating to the legislature.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: Yeah. It can't be very you know, they can't I don't think it can be much more specific than that. They're just going to be.

[15336-265] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Capital Improvement subcommittee - deli | 2023-10-04
PREV> Whitney Skillen: I'm the reason why I'm bringing this up out loud is so that if there's any s h staff that are listening, if you can start in the wintertime to close the windows, it would save Mr. Holt so much stress. His the way that.
TEXT> He explained, the way he keeps up with the temperature of the building and monitors the cold spots and make sure that the temperatures are heated properly for the students, it would just make everyone's life easier if we were all more collaborative about how the school environment is treated. And closing the windows in the wintertime is a really easy way for the staff to support the maintenance.
NEXT> Unidentified: It seems like a really easy thing to signed by the light switch or something.

[15336-286] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; Capital Improvement subcommittee - deli | 2023-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: No, I already spoke anyway. Yeah.
TEXT> Can I add. One more thing? Another thing. Because I think this is important to. For all of the families listening, we asked Mr. Holt on his honest opinion on how well the students take care of shades, and he quickly came out of his mouth. Not well, not good at all. And that's disappointing for me as an auntie to hear don't have kids, but I, my nieces and nephews know how to act when they come into my house and how to treat it. And it upsets me that the adults who take who are in charge of taking care of our school don't believe that the children who attend this school care enough to take care of it. That's disappointing to hear, and I would like to see better out of everyone in this community. Thank you.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you. Policy subcommittee. We have a introduction of a policy for approval. G.B..

[15336-298] Jennifer Gallagher | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023, one-year seat) - the | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay, I figure Ben has a good but that's going to be definitely on the next great agenda. And we have the ad hoc disruptive behavior Committee. Jen Gallagher and Mr. Nester on that. And we're I'm really excited to hear about your meeting today.
TEXT> Thank you. Yeah, we had our second meeting today.  First of all, I'd like to say we have a lot of really committed, wonderful people  that care about the students and families of Claremont and  those people, a lot of them were in that room, and  we just want to support the students best. So,  what the committee would like to, to know is, I guess, what the board's vision of the committee is. Are you hoping for some policy recommendations? What is our specific target in order to be most effective.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: For me? I would like to see a unification of, discipline strategies and consequences, making sure that all the elementary schools are doing everything the same, alignment of disruptive behavior

[15336-355] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: think for what we're we're spending on it, I think it needs and the models are out there. So I think that, I think we need to really, bite the bullet on pre-K and, make sure that we're giving the taxpayers what they're paying for.
TEXT> It's interesting that you brought that up, because  with the concept of a discussion about moving the pre-K and then looking for a coordinator, it seems like we're a little disjointed. And maybe that's just my perception being new on the board. But what kind of assessments do we use for monitoring the kids? I think it would be important to have that global picture for for such an important program, and especially if even the New Hampshire School Board Association is looking to  advocate for pre-K for everyone. We want to make sure that we have a successful program here.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'd like to get that at some point, some. On the. Agenda, on the agenda. Yeah, just just an overview of what we're doing and.

[15336-361] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: was flawed and wasn't really helpful in directing us. So what what's out there to help us make these evaluations? There's got to be specific tools. And is there a monetary like, do we need specific, specific assessment tools that we don't have now or.
TEXT> And do we do pre and post assessment on the students. And then do we we do we study the students longitudinally as they go up into the kindergarten. And where are they. Maybe this board has already gotten that information. And I was it was.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Founded like basically.

[15336-382] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any any other business.?
TEXT> I was wondering about the summer program, the  achievement of the students who were enrolled there. I know that last year as a person at the podium, I asked about it and there was a problem with the data collection. I'm wondering if we have data from this year's students who attended the summer program.
NEXT> Mike Koski: This year. We we used the spring scores. And now. We'll be getting the fall scores. And so we'll have those scores for comparison rather than test at the beginning

[15357-10] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do we have a second? Second. Is there anyone that would like to oppose accepting this donation? Seeing no opposition. The board accepts the donation of $6,000 from the Schwab Charitable Fund. Now, next item is the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Thank you. Chair Whitney. So I, I have if you look at  viewers at home and folks in the audience, you can see, I tried to give a, a  glimpse of what was going on around the district and also  tie those in to the academic goals that, that we've spoken about.  Excuse me, spoken about,  and  I'll mention those right now. So,  what you can see on the here, we have a  math presenter who's been doing a week long workshop in the lower left with all the principals from Monday actually had that work. You see, some of the artifacts from what he presented posted around. They did that in this  room all week as well.  He's wonderful. And other  opportunity we're reaching out to with professional theater company talking about resiliency for our students as well. And then my favorite part of the district, I am a little bit biased for the middle school. It's not just because they hear in mass, okay. It's not it's not, it's not. But,  I love the arts  program that they have in the opportunities for the kids. So I was  down there and,  you know, just the wing of Mr. Pike.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Teacher, I what's the name of Maria's class that she does, Frank? 3D. Yeah. So, in the middle of there, you see the do now exercise that they had, basically,

[15357-11] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: school. It's not just because they hear in mass, okay. It's not it's not, it's not. But, I love the arts program that they have in the opportunities for the kids. So I was down there and, you know, just the wing of Mr. Pike.
TEXT> Teacher,  I what's the name of Maria's  class that she does, Frank?  3D. Yeah. So, in the middle of there, you see the do now exercise that they had, basically, the world has been flooded and is only covered with water draw and ocean house design. And they had to  pull in,  you know, parts of design and talk about how they would do that and just the creativity and how the kids were  comparing ideas. It was wonderful. And then you see the other things from  Mr. Burdens class with his stools. That's a assignment that's been around in Claremont for,  a while now and  is always, always see by the kids. So the first goal we have,  and for myself in for members of our  administrative team and is to visit all schools, administrators and teachers weekly to be in every school and try to exceed that, if we can,  to support the instructional goals and  in student achievement. So and what that means is walking around with the principals, connecting with  teachers, seeing what's going on. And also it was it was great. As you know. You know, I  had a setback personally with my family that I couldn't be around as much in the fall, but it was awesome to be in there  this week as it will be tomorrow.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and Mr. Kosky can tell you as well. It's just, it's it's wonderful to see why we do this and how dedicated our teachers are and what's going on

[15357-12] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And also it was it was great. As you know. You know, I had a setback personally with my family that I couldn't be around as much in the fall, but it was awesome to be in there this week as it will be tomorrow.
TEXT> And and Mr. Kosky can tell you as well. It's just, it's it's wonderful to see why we do this and how dedicated our teachers are and what's going on in the classroom all the time. So the next is to,  work with our administrative team. We have  some new people in the business office and improve the budgeting process, focusing resources again that directly support instructional goals and student achievement. So and I put on there to remind for the next meeting just about,  the tuition agreements that we have. So the tuition agreements that we have, we get kids,  as we had for a long time from Goshen and also from, Cornish. And just a reminder that we have to get those, because that's one of the first things that we have to get ready to set the tuition rates for kids coming in and things like that. And we spoke about that  with, with both boards recently as well. So the most exciting one that I have, that was  I  as you know, I'm on the board  for the community college. River Valley in  we had just an amazing meeting  last Thursday talking about the opportunities that they have  for students, particularly high school students. And,   to to begin  an accelerated our  program.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And basically they talked about the regional shortages. And I'll show you a few slides. These are actually, Denise Ruby who? The department head for the, health science program there.

[15357-16] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - delivers the superintendent's report and his t | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for the next meeting, he's going to talk specifically to everything that's going on and where the program studies is also headed, so that you have that in your hands earlier, which has always been a goal. So, and that's it. So the other thing.
TEXT> I'm not sorry, I can't see from there.  This was also the, the number of enrollments in anticipation of how the program is almost doubling over the next,  few years. And. I'm sorry, I'm not keeping up with the. But. Yeah, I mean, that's that's the gist of it. There are the steps. Now. Now I'm online. I'm looking at my computer here and it's one slide off now. So  just really exciting opportunity  in very accessible. He is going to come out. And I also shamelessly tried to solicit the the board chair to  we're also talking about and we've said this as well. Jerry Apel does an amazing job. Always has the contact with the high schools in the region coming to Stevens and speaking with the kids, but they also talked about finding  successful stories of folks in the in the health field, people who were that, that person from this community and how they've made it, talking about careers and the impact that can happen. So that's what our next follow up meeting is going to be. So  and there's there's a lot of folks out there. So we're we were just over the moon and with this this meeting. So that's all I have for my report.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Any questions or comments from the board?

[15357-18] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Any questions or comments from the board?
TEXT> I have a question about the goals. And I believe that the spirit of the goals is very much aligned with the Claremont School Board, goals that were worked on during the retreat. Yeah, but I'm wondering and I'm looking specifically at all one, if it would be, it would have a greater impact if the goal included rather than  supporting would say something about because this is part of a Claremont board goal. Measuring growth in student achievement and professional instructional practices in all the schools. Sure. So that it's really aligned with the specific goals that were developed at the retreat, especially about improving achievement, specifically with percentages in literacy.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and we can we can have these are the broader focus goals. I completely agree. We should have benchmarks market measure it all the way through. Yeah. These were

[15357-20] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the board said before in the subcommittee and otherwise you why you order in, you know, the cases of paperclips every year. What do you really need? What's what's what are the teachers want. What are the what are the students need type of thing?
TEXT> And I totally agree. And I understand the the result and the key result of having that visibility in the buildings. And I'm, I keep I'm referring back to the wording within the goal to include measurable growth in student achievement in instructional practices, because that's what we've been focusing on, being able to measure and and improve student achievement and instructional practices. So I think by having it actually in the goal itself, it even more closely aligns with the school board goals.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Absolutely. But we can also have a grid of benchmarks and what we hope to achieve. And Mike will talk more about that as well, along with the principles of

[15357-34] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Agreed. She's already on it. Believe it. Yes. Okay.
TEXT> I commend the work of the administrative team working in the budget process, because we really need to have that. I'm wondering if we if you can include in this that you would also be assisting the school boards because we're I think we equally need to be a part of working to improve the budget process and then improving student achievement. So if you could include that in the goal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Of.

[15357-43] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: about and what we're doing. So we started when we started the year just as school started. We were short a couple of positions, and the main ones that we were was a science and math position both at the seventh and eighth grade level.
TEXT> So we're short two of those positions. We were very lucky,  as we developed a plan that we've got some late applicants with some great recommendations.  So we actually were able to hire a seventh and eighth grade math teacher and eighth grade science teacher. So we are full both at sixth grade and eighth grade.  Where we're lacking two key people. Is a seventh grade math and a seventh grade science. So I just wanted to update sort of where we are. We're still advertising for those positions.  But the way that we're combating  the shortage is that we're having our students take half year courses.  So half of the  the students will take a  math class. The other half will have an in person. And then halfway through the year, we will switch so that no one student will have either all online or all in person.  In working with blacks and talking with other schools, we just felt our students deserve more than to be put into a cafeteria, into a large room in front of a computer. Like most schools are doing.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So our schedule allows itself and lends itself to having some flexibility, which is one of the great things about our schedule. And so we're able to do this. We're

[15357-47] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: My twins are a little upset because they were sort of like you.
TEXT> But the children you're working with to get signed up and the parents that's for next semester this semester. Just that's current. So not every student is currently using.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Yeah. You want to promise you she wasn't going to talk to you. I'm going to pick I'm going to pay for this.

[15357-54] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: I'll be. Ready to go. Yeah. And we put a lot of supports in place that other schools have not. We have the students are signed up to go to an enrichment block with the content area science and math teacher that we do have.
TEXT> The teacher of record. Is that the teacher of record or is that the. I'm sorry. That's okay. Is that considered the teacher of record for the kids on the left? Do they need a teacher of record?
NEXT> Courtney Steele: So our seventh grade math teacher, our seventh grade science teacher.

[15357-68] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: And the parents have access to see the grades. Through as well.
TEXT> Things like attendance, make sure the kids are actually there and doing it. It's live and.
NEXT> Courtney Steele: It. Is not a live, lesson. They have the teachers have office hours so the kids can sign up for the office hours. Attendance is taken through our staff.

[15357-69] Courtney Steele | Claremont Middle School staff - the onset of her own answer, 'It is no | 2023-10-18
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Things like attendance, make sure the kids are actually there and doing it. It's live and.
TEXT> It. Is not a live,  lesson. They have the teachers have office hours so the kids can sign up for the office hours. Attendance is taken through our staff.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: We take. The attendance. Correct.

[15357-74] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-10-18
PREV> Courtney Steele: normally full year courses. They call them segments instead of semesters. So the students right now are in segment one, and the students in second semester for us would be in segment two so that they can their only being charged with half of that.
TEXT> Just bless you all for pulling this all off, Jeff and you guys and just having the kids have a successful experience.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Thank you. Thank you.

[15357-81] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: for that first question. All right. Looking at the cell phone policy, the cell phone policy. So, to start off and I've talked with Mr. Pratt and his team and we talked about, you know, the advantages and the differences that they're seeing to that.
TEXT> So what I did and what  Miss Lydia had put together for you, along with Andrew, is just taking a look at our cell phones sort of violations.  And when you look at that, when you look at that, the first cell phone violation is one of those where,  you know, you've had your cell phone out, we asked you to put it away and you haven't. And that then is considered a cell phone violation. So there's a right up to that.  Then we will have an administrator come. We get it. The kids get it back at the end of the day type thing. A second violation would be that the phone is out again, and this time you've already been warned. It stays in the office. It's a phone call. A second phone call.  And a parent is going to have to come get the cell phone. And the third is that we don't want the cell phone to come into the school again. And if it needs to, it must stay in the office or with a dean or an administrator.  When you walk in and then you get it at the end of the day.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So we kind of just broke down where our cell phone violations are running, and you can kind of see how many students, for the eighth grade, it's one parent

[15357-86] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Ben Nester: All right.
TEXT> The roles of the dean. So there's a lot of information here  in regards to the student centers. And,  they're interchangeable, whether we call them academic standards or student centers. The breakdown that we have this year.  We have one eighth grade center, right, right. That houses all the eighth grade students. And we've combined six and seven together into one student center. Again, academic center, student center. And the idea behind it.  And as you can see, is that it's it's to be accessed by students for a variety of reasons. And we kind of broke that down for you.  Showing in eighth grade, there have been 549 uses or referrals. So that means since the start of school,  that room has been accessed 549 separate times for a variety of reasons. Some of its students are advocating for themselves.  Some of them, we recognize that they need a quieter space. They need a redirect.  They need a restart. And so  that's what the student centers in its simplest form, do. But we've also, if you kind of go through in the page, talks about the description of the sixth and seventh and eighth grade deans and the roles that they play.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And, Mike was fortunate enough. He was in the building the other day and kind of sat through one of the Dean meetings that we had, which is our admin

[15357-87] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: a restart. And so that's what the student centers in its simplest form, do. But we've also, if you kind of go through in the page, talks about the description of the sixth and seventh and eighth grade deans and the roles that they play.
TEXT> And,  Mike was fortunate enough.  He was in the building the other day and kind of sat through one of the Dean meetings that we had, which is our admin team. We meet every day.  Sometimes it's five minutes depending, and sometimes we can get 20 minutes in.  But we go through every single student in the building. Like, where? Where are we? What are the things we need to know? What? You know, what direction are things going? Who needs what help? Is it? Academic is a discipline. It's a quick roundup. Mike was there for that.  And the deans are  a major part of that.  They know what is happening in their buildings and in their grades every day. So they're a vital part of  that sort of not only academic, but the social emotional growth of our students and what we're doing.  The last thing and this is a question.  We have talked about, I think when I was here in my my last presentation is some of the greatest barriers,  improving academic outcomes and talking about measurable goals  and where we're headed.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Just kind of took a rundown of some of those things. The, the mental health support is always one of the biggest and, first on the list. And then I

[15357-88] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: and what we're doing. The last thing and this is a question. We have talked about, I think when I was here in my my last presentation is some of the greatest barriers, improving academic outcomes and talking about measurable goals and where we're headed.
TEXT> Just kind of took a rundown of some of those things.  The, the mental health support is always one of the biggest and,  first on the list. And then I really want to,  with our community and talking about the things that are going on, I really want to help promote and support the families. And so thinking about what can we do to, to help support,  our families and our parents and our grandparents. And what do they need? And do we need more seminars? Do we need workshops? Do we need education to help,  with those families? Teacher recruitment and retention. And that's something that we continuously talk about.  We're talking about curriculum alignment, which that's all the work that we've been doing and some of the things they brought in. I'll bring up Late Bus again just because I always do.  But I if we don't have a late bus, we don't have kids that are staying after for academics, for sports, for drama, for clubs.  Still continuously building those relationships.  If we had a late bus, we would have so much more,  just participation and activity in our building. But kiddos and families, and we understand that.  But I will continue to stand up here and promoting lake bus. Our kids need it. And the last thing is the district wide reading and  reading and writing initiative. I talked about that the last time I was here. I just if we're not reading, we're not learning.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: And so everything we can do to promote that. We recently through a grant. If you haven't seen it, you have to come by. It's like one of the cutest

[15357-89] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: to stand up here and promoting lake bus. Our kids need it. And the last thing is the district wide reading and reading and writing initiative. I talked about that the last time I was here. I just if we're not reading, we're not learning.
TEXT> And so  everything we can do to promote that. We recently through a grant.  If you haven't seen it, you have to come by. It's like one of the cutest things is we have a vending machine that's for books.  Just like a candy machine. And a couple of kids are upset. There's no candy in it.  And I get that. How come we don't put candy? But  our students own  earn tokens through a variety of things. Whether it's student of the month, we're actually broadening that a little bit for some other. But they go in and they put a token and they get a book  and it's theirs. It's pretty neat. It's got a CMS thing on the side.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: How did that. How did you get that?

[15357-101] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: you for coming. Could you tell us a little bit your second bullet? What's the greatest barrier to improving academic outcomes for the. The point is programs for parents on how to support success. Sure. What can you give specifics of? What kind of programs?
TEXT> Yeah. So, you know. One of the things that I'd love to do is see. If we can have monthly meetings for parents.  And some, some of the simplest things that could be like, how do I,  nefarious activity on cell phones  or, on computers, like, what to look for. What are the things to look for when your kid has,  and I'm not on social media and I make jokes about it, but Facebook and Snapchat and all of those things. And what are the pitfalls and what are the questions to ask?  When you. Have those meetings. On a month, those are things that we'd like to set up as a program. So when we talk about some of the barriers,  those are things that we would like to see and maybe have some outside resources. I know that I couldn't speak to social media.  Because I'm not on it. And  the kids make fun of me all the time. But,  people that can actually speak to what it is, what to look for, what's proper, what's proper time of use,  those type of things, those are conversations we try to have with our own kids.  And I think families would appreciate some support  and some guidelines and some literature about what does that look like? What do you look for? So currently.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Are there any regular programs for parents?

[15357-130] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - the chair says ' | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Crawford.
TEXT> Just follow up question.  I think it's great to have the, vending machine and the tokens is is is good. My concern is that oftentimes the kids who aren't achieving and don't get those tokens are the ones that really need extra help reading. Yes. And so what kinds of programs do you have for those kids?
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So, just yesterday, I believe it was yesterday, I sat with our building leadership team and admin team and asked the same question, which is why what we're going to

[15357-131] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: machine and the tokens is is is good. My concern is that oftentimes the kids who aren't achieving and don't get those tokens are the ones that really need extra help reading. Yes. And so what kinds of programs do you have for those kids?
TEXT> So,  just yesterday, I believe it was yesterday, I sat with our building leadership team and admin team and asked the same question, which is why what we're going to do is,  and I guess I can say this, or because we were talking about I was going to kind of  reveal it, but,  we have these,  you good cut you being good cards. Right. And so what we're going to do is each teacher,  is going to, I think, going to nominate somebody each month. So each teacher within their grade will just caught you being good. You pick something up off the ground, you held the door open. It doesn't necessarily have to be the student of the month criteria. And then we will, celebrate that at our all school meeting because we do all school meetings on Fridays, and then once a month we do the student of the month, we will give the kids their cards and announce and say, hey, caught you being good.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: It goes into a drawing and we will pick a couple of names each month, just as a random thing that they will also get a token. We've also I've

[15357-153] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order (segments 3 | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: books. Like, we need to figure that out, right? We need to get on that and figure out how we're going to get it to them. So that's why we had asked the question in one of the meetings this week. Thank you. Thank you.
TEXT> I just have one more question. Unless anybody else has a question.  My question is about the deans and the academic centers or the student support centers. I know this is part of Esser money, so there's probably a phasing out process that's going to happen.  But I'm trying to see that if trying to draw some lines to possible benefit. And the pie chart that you, you provided, which is great, it looks like to me that more than roughly three quarters of the students that access these centers are there for social, emotional or  behavior type issues and a limited number for academic support. Now, I do understand that there's a direct correlation between social emotional growth and ability to learn. But is there any mechanism in place currently that tracks the students that have access to the system to see if, if they actually are gaining these social emotional benefits that are leading to academic growth? Because to me, to me the end game is academic growth, whereas the key indicator towards that end game is, you know, improve social. Emotional,  sure. But social emotional growth  unto itself, it's kind of hard to measure that.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: Yes.

[15357-156] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - assenting while the chair puts he | 2023-10-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: But if you've got that then you're going to see the academic.
TEXT> Yes. So what I can tell you some of the data points that we're looking at in regards to this. And one thing I'm just going to back up and say you're absolutely correct. Behavior is information, right. And so when kids are behaving some sort of way there's information there. Our job is to figure out what's that information. Is it academic. Is it social. Is it home. What what. What is the barrier that's coming up? Because 98% of those behaviors are not directed at me or the staff. It's because of something that's going on. It could be academic, right? So,  yes, the academic centers. Centers are part of social emotional, but they are academic as well. We do have teachers that so all of our teachers in on our staff actually circle through our student centers throughout the week. So each teacher is responsible for going to visit for one block, a student center. And that's for academic support and help. Right? We have the dean in there. So you may have some students that are struggling in a class for it might be behavioral, but it's really that they're struggling academically. So we have certified teachers and they're supporting those kids.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: All that being said, some of the data points that we look at is an ineligible list compared from one year to the next, right. How many of our students

[15357-157] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - the chair thanks 'Principal Romeo | 2023-10-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: academic support and help. Right? We have the dean in there. So you may have some students that are struggling in a class for it might be behavioral, but it's really that they're struggling academically. So we have certified teachers and they're supporting those kids.
TEXT> All that being said, some of the data points that we look at is an ineligible list compared from one year to the next, right. How many of our students are ineligible as opposed to this year? Attend in ineligibility for sports and co-curricular activities, right. So if you're failing  more than right to two. Right. So I can tell you that I remember  pre  student centers, we were 15 and 20. Post student centers were four and five. Whether there's a direct correlation or not, but I'd like to think that the work that we're being done has some has an impact on that. When we talk about attendance and that's not just attendance in school, which is up for us because we have kids now that are coming to school because they know they have a place to go of support, and that when they need help or social emotional help, that there is a place for them to go. And it's not just the counselors, but there's somebody, there's a teacher there, there's a connection that they've made where they can get some small group instruction or some one on one work in that student center. So attendance is up when we look overall at the referrals and what those referrals are, right.  Referrals of skipping class linked to class,  those are down.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So we don't have all because students are getting into classes. You're still going to have some of the other behaviors that we have referrals. So those are three major

[15357-181] Frank Sprague | Vice Chair, Claremont School Board - the chair asks for a motion 'Mr.  | 2023-10-18
PREV> Mary Henry: All right.
TEXT> So I just would add  as a footnote that the original when we started an alternative program, it was  we actually,  subcontracted it to Ombudsman and it was in the Goddard Block downtown. And it worked out well. It was a space. And the kids,  got there on their own. And,  I again, all the research I ever did on alternative programs,  not in high school. That's a hard note with me if anybody asks me. But,  but I think that the downtown is a great option. River Valley is intriguing. Yeah. Also, Yeah. Savings bank.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No candy, Miss Gillen. And then down the line. Yeah.

[15357-444] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order (segments 3 | 2023-10-18
PREV> Unidentified: Mr..
TEXT> Mr.. Pratt as well.  We received a lot of information in our emails that is pretty robust and  well ahead of schedule, so you can review them and actually ask questions related to their presentations. So if there's things that you feel that you would like clarified in their presentations, this will give them time to make those adjustments so we can move quickly through the agenda. See, I'm also spoke to Chris Pratt about the student representative. He is still searching for a volunteer. It's not a highly desirable position. And so I just kind of threw out to him that perhaps,  a whoever facilitates the student government may reach out to the board or, or may like to reach out to us and come up with a more compelling role for that individual. And so maybe we can expand it a little bit instead of them just being somebody who kind of rattles off what's going off in school. So it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Gives them tokens for the.

[15385-7] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: That was not here.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you.  Absent that,  addendum, is there any, request to alter the consent agenda if not approved? Moving on to comments. Is there anybody  in the audience that would like to speak to the board this time? Seeing none.  We will move to the school board member report. Our student school and board member report.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: That that. Well,

[15385-9] Unidentified | Stevens High School student school board representative, 10th grade -  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Jennifer Gallagher: That that. Well,
TEXT> As this student school board representative, I just wanted to report on some things from a student body view. Some of the things are how  the  yonder patches are going for the student body, the positive and the negative aspects. One of the positive things that I see is how there isn't like a social like expectation. So I don't have the fear of being filmed by other students or being photographed without my consent. But I'm sure you guys have heard a lot of the negative. But one of is the students are afraid of not being able to contact parents during an emergency or just during the school day, but I'm sure you guys have heard that. The other thing is the vandalism in the bathrooms right now.  Which may not have been resolved, but  if it hasn't, there are some few ideas I have, like a hall monitor maybe, or checking bathrooms hourly and then seeing who went in those bathrooms. And I think once we catch those people,  making consequential consequences more  intense will make it stop. Like either making the students clean their own vandalism or making detentions more frequent for them. I also think that the student handbook should be updated on specifically how  tardiness, absences and detentions affect not only sports, but clubs.
NEXT> Jennifer Gallagher: Thank you. Thank you.

[15385-12] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Unidentified: We have the same presentation.
TEXT> So perfect. Greatly appreciated. Thank you. It's valuable information. Yes. Yeah. Thank you. Presented. Is there any questions from the board for our student reps? Seeing none, we'll move on to the superintendent's report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Thank you, Madam Chair. So what I have I have two items. One is we had visitors from the New Hampshire Department of Education led by Joey Nichols, come out

[15385-14] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - gives the superintendent's report at segments  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: students knew the school and it was wonderful. So I also have another, bit of good news to report today. We had a follow up meeting today. It's part of, Principal Pratt's initiative with we followed up with members of the River Valley Community College.
TEXT> As I presented last time about the nursing program and the opportunities  to to get  both running start credit and also  school to work  initiatives. And we just an amazing first meeting of ideas where we were  other good news to report to.  I offered because we have two  new busses and two of the drivers passed. Okay.  So we're closer. We're we're closer to the lake bus, but we're also close to the things that they were talking about that were wonderful opportunities for our kids, and  particularly  trying to layer and have a summer program. It's fledgling now, but  also, that that is a work experience and also tailoring some more,  running start course opportunities with them. But it was I think it was one of the most fruitful  meetings I've had so far with them. And,  and everyone was on board. So it was just really exciting opportunity. We'll have more to share and have them out as well. We've been follow up meeting in a couple of weeks, but it was it was a great meeting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So there any questions for would you briefly remind the community what the Teachers United Teach Unite is about?

[15385-27] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Next item on our agenda is Stephen's high school update, principal Christopher Pratt. Thank you.
TEXT> Good evening everyone. First, I want to start off for thinking Kylie and Nicole for stepping up to being the student reps. They're both great representations of the student body we have at the school. We've already talked about some stuff that we want to be moving forward to give students more of a voice. But, you know, Kylie last week was one of the panel members for the community viewing. We had a screen ager. She did a fantastic job. And Nicole was one of the roles. And in the play we had a few weeks ago. So they they both contribute a lot to the school. So I'm very happy and pleased to have them both here. So thank you both.  I think everyone got a copy of the The Principal's report, so I'm just going to brush over some of the, you know, some of this. On the first part we have identikit.  So I was set up initially. So when we have visitors come in, we know who's coming into the building. And like it says in the report, it's, what it set up for is that visited? Come in. They scanned the license and automatically what happens is it goes through identikit and they cross-reference it for  anyone who may have be sexual offenders or,  custody issues or anything like that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: It's just another level of safety. I was talking to Jeff earlier. As of, like last week, there's still some areas that we want to check on before we go

[15385-31] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: was a very productive knife. We continue we want to continue to have more and increase the community participation in these nights. I think it's important. So we're going to look to the future to have more of these community events at the high school.
TEXT> As far as faculty and staff updates, what we've we've started doing is because, you know, we're really  working on restorative practices, not just for the students, but for the teachers as well, and giving them the tools they need to to work with students in their classroom and really boosting up their classroom management skills.  So we started reading,  Restorative Practices Playbook, and what that looks like is during faculty meetings is that we'll break out into professional learning communities and have deeper conversations with guided questions about what we read over the past month in regards to that. So we're on the same page in regards to it shouldn't just happen outside the classroom, but what does it look like if there's all sudden there's an altercation or a disruption in the classroom, given the teachers the tools they need to resolve that problem, circle up in the class to do that. So we're excited about that.  This past month we had music and theater. Both have, events happening. We had  the music,  had the  Dallas brass come in and performed for the elementary students, but also they also  performed for the for the community. And so that was a that was a good success. And we had the, the, Stephens High School theater department present the play Night watch. And so and that was something that Nicole was part of.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Fantastic job. So it was it was great to see. It was a full house and it was great to see, like I said, the community coming in and and

[15385-32] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: also they also performed for the for the community. And so that was a that was a good success. And we had the, the, Stephens High School theater department present the play Night watch. And so and that was something that Nicole was part of.
TEXT> Fantastic job. So  it was it was great to see.  It was a full house and it was great to see, like I said, the community coming in and and seeing what our students are all about and what they have to offer and the hard work that goes in, not just in their academics, but the extracurriculars as well. I had an opportunity to visit the new  Stephens High School Alumni Association space that they have up on Washington Street.  It's a very nice space. I encourage anyone to go take a look at it. There's a lot of history there. With their new space, they're able to,  display the trophies and the plaques and a lot of historical pictures. And they also have a little place there. You can see where they, they sell alumni merch. So,  we're trying to increase the,  the involvement with the school and the alumni association and the alumni association with the school.  So that was a great visit. We continue to build on the restorative justice program  this year. Right now, students are currently being trained on the student panels to  meet with students on very low level situations, on the proactive approach to resolve conflict and how to listen to each other and really get down to why the problems happen rather than just putting out the punitive piece.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So the students are currently being trained on that, and that's a huge step for for Stephens High School in regards to student leaders within the building. I think we

[15385-33] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: trained on the student panels to meet with students on very low level situations, on the proactive approach to resolve conflict and how to listen to each other and really get down to why the problems happen rather than just putting out the punitive piece.
TEXT> So the students are currently being trained on that, and that's a huge step for for Stephens High School in regards to  student leaders within the building.  I think we have a total.  Each panel is made up of 3 or 4 students, and we have enough for 3 or 4 panels. So so that's great. We're very excited about that. Some of the qualities that we look like we look for in the in the candidates, you can see there's comparing compassion for every member of our community. Trustworthiness.  The able to keep confidence, patience and want to listen and understand. And the bigger thing is listening of the conflict that took place so we can resolve it. So when we're done dealing with it. We know why it happened, how it happened, and what we need to do in the future so it doesn't happen again. So we're very excited about the student panels. Next up is, I wanted to share with the board. And the community is like back in  the beginning of last year, we started the,  Swat protocol with all the faculty and staff.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And the Swat protocol is strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that we see within Stevens High School. And so how that process worked is that first we did it all

[15385-34] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: it doesn't happen again. So we're very excited about the student panels. Next up is, I wanted to share with the board. And the community is like back in the beginning of last year, we started the, Swat protocol with all the faculty and staff.
TEXT> And the Swat protocol is strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that we see within Stevens High School. And so how that process worked is that first we did it all as as a department. Each department did their own slot in regards to what they saw as strengths, weaknesses, threats and opportunities. Once they had that, I took all that information and I compiled it into the document you see here. And for instance, if one department had  freedom to choose curriculum as a strength and another  had it as a weakness, it didn't make the list. We wanted to be consistent in regards to what we're seeing for these different quadrants within the Swat protocol. So what you have in front of you is the  strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that we saw. Starting at the beginning of last year until the end of the year. And I think the big highlight is all the work that we're doing with,  Excel. And I want to get into that a little bit, I excel. So what Excel really is, is that it's an online program. And once a week at least, you know, sometimes every other week students come in on a Monday and advisory and they take the diagnostic, whether they take it in English and math for all students, whether or not they're currently enrolled in an English or math class, they still have to take the diagnostic and and keep on top of the Excel.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: So once they take that diagnostic each week or biweekly, depending on the student that updates their individualized learning profile and populates it with the areas that they showed on

[15385-35] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: and advisory and they take the diagnostic, whether they take it in English and math for all students, whether or not they're currently enrolled in an English or math class, they still have to take the diagnostic and and keep on top of the Excel.
TEXT> So once they take that diagnostic each week or biweekly, depending on the student that updates their individualized learning profile and populates it with the areas that they showed on the diagnostic as a weakness. And so each student on a regular basis gets their updated, individualized learning plan for English and math, whether they're in a current class or not. And for some students who are really struggling, like in science, they have a for science. And then any students take in Spanish. Also have Excel for Spanish. And it's just our way to know that the learning that we're given, not just in the classroom, but on a regular basis, is up to date. It's meeting the students where they are, and then from that we're able to see that data at at every level. So some of the graphs you see here in front of you is, is if you look at the first one, questions answered per student per week, our goal was 60. And so you have a ninth and 12th grade is there above that. And so it and then the next one is skill usage. So we have total questions answered from the beginning of the year until I think this was mid end of October, we have 143,832 questions answered by the student body.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And we have a total of 723 hours spent on learning outside of the classroom for the extended learning. Most of it does happen during schools. You can see on

[15385-36] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: is there above that. And so it and then the next one is skill usage. So we have total questions answered from the beginning of the year until I think this was mid end of October, we have 143,832 questions answered by the student body.
TEXT> And we have a total  of 723 hours spent on learning outside of the classroom for the extended learning. Most of it does happen during schools. You can see on the following page where it says extend students learning. Some students do do it at home, but a lot of times that's what we're using advisory. Now they have to spend at least 15 to 20 minutes in advisory. And if they can't get it to an advisory because they have their other academics that they're working on, they need to spend time at least 15, 20 minutes at home to do that. And that's what that graph there shows, is that majority of the work that's being done is  during the school day, during that 47 minutes we have for advisory and the next one, Building Mastery. You can see,  since September 11th, we've had the level continues to go up in regards to students building mastery in the skills that are given to them within what they show on their diagnostic. And keep in mind, this is all outside their regular classrooms. And so the big numbers are that you see, is, like I said, they have 100, 722 hours additional time spent outside of classroom.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: And most of this is an l a in math and then skills mastered. We have 3115 skills mastered since the beginning of the year, 3442 skills that they're proficient.

[15385-38] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School - the chair introduces 'Stephen's high  | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: this is an additional to their their their regular classwork. But the students who aren't as an administration, we monitor I monitor that and I go in and look and say, okay, we have these students who aren't really doing much in Excel at all.
TEXT> So therefore they're learning they could be falling further and further  in that class. So for those students, what we do is that we identify those students. We take those students instead of them going to their advisory where they're not doing their excel,  that we take them and we put them in the restorative school day room for advisory, where we can monitor and make sure that they're now that they are working in their Excel. So it's it's different than a lot of programs where you hope kids are doing it. But here we're actually saying, okay, we have the proof. We can show that out of 100 questions you've answered two, and you've spent five minutes instead of the two hours that you're supposed to. So we're able to monitor that. So make sure that kids are keeping up the best they can. Next page, just some pictures from  the matching band we had on October 20th. It was towards some of the end of the regular sport seasons. So they they played the Stevens High School fight song at the end of the day through the hallways, and it was just a nice, school pride and celebrating school spirit. And then the last  page is just the enrollment numbers and just some  upcoming November dates that are important for Stevens High School.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Questions. Can.

[15385-61] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: It's it's just so we can identify in keeping kids safe in the building, because you never know who's coming into the building. It's just another level of safety for visitors coming in who may not be the safest people coming into the building. Awesome.
TEXT> This I agree. This is excellent. Thank you very much. You're welcome. I have a question about this Excel, which I think is fabulous. The extended learning and the building mastery in looking at it. The building mastery to me seems like for those kids who have not yet reached the standard. Correct. And then the extended learning is that like an enrichment or a deeper dive into the classes they're already taking, or are they.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Yeah.

[15385-65] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Chris Pratt: work that they need to get like a 800 to a 950. So it challenges to keep growing within that. And then we also have the SAT, we have the state standardized tests. It's all tied in there. We can assign if we need to.
TEXT> It's a really nice solid program. Again. And from my own understanding, the extended student learning, if I'm a student and I'm taking a science class, hypothetically, chemistry, which I did not do well on, is the extended learning. If I'm doing well in the class, then I would be more engaged in the student extended learning, and then would I get like a deeper level of chemistry or. Yes, okay, that.
NEXT> Chris Pratt: Was for English and math. Yes. For for Excel in science, it only goes up to eighth grade. But we have a lot of students who aren't there yet right

[15385-89] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: She did let me know. She doesn't have capacity right now. So we can explore other avenues, but we, you know, in hopes that the board was going to be agreeable to lease that bullet point. I did reach out already.
TEXT> I have a a thought about this comprehensive, research based early childhood curriculum. The Department of Ed has, as you know, the thick, thick,  listing of benchmarks and standards for students. And if we can implement those standards even at this point, start working to for our children that are there now,  I don't know if from what I read with the the Brigance being used, that's an opportunity to assess. But then do we look at where our students are in relation to those benchmarks and then have that drive and continued instruction, for lack of a better word, that the students are getting?
NEXT> Ben Nester: Totally agree. Totally agree. I think that in my view, and I, I think the mikes would share the same view, is that we need to we need to look

[15385-91] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: and sequence for the district at large. I think it's time to do that and time to put standards in front of people so that we have our teachers have a goal and know what they're going to be teaching roughly at a given time.
TEXT> Do you think there's a chance that that can happen for the students that are there this year in some way, shape or form? It's an hour to, hey to a, I'll say, language arts curriculum. Math curriculum is really based on the standards. Very much so. So I think for that consistency through it's very different for pre-K. Yeah, it's really developmental. And to have a way to assess where each child is at. And then how do we build on that I think is is really important. And for the students who are there this year as well.
NEXT> Ben Nester: We. Will I'm meeting with pre-K staff on Friday, actually to do some some sort of big planning. And so that will be in everyone's hands on Friday.

[15385-124] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah. We want to give credit to the pre-K staff and others that have helped out. But we've we've had to do some some shifting and some assignment changes. But we've got a we've got a structure in place that we're still solid about.
TEXT> Can I ask one more thing? Sure. I have a lot of questions about the pre-K. I apologize, but I don't apologize. The,  the idea of having services provided outside of the early childhood environment is something that is discussed. And I and I did ask you about bussing. And currently our, our students are bussed to the early childhood. I'll use the expression early childhood center pre-K program. Yeah. If we go into the model or, or really think about a model where we are pushing outside services, do we lose the chance that some or do we have the chance that some of our students will not be able to get those services because of transportation issues from families.
NEXT> Ben Nester: If we. So what that normally looks like is students that attend Head Start in town, you know, we can send staff to Head Start to provide the special ed

[15385-136] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - runs the agenda from the opening conse | 2023-11-01
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'll stop there.
TEXT> I think one of the questions or one, one of the yeah, one of the questions is,  if a child is so what I'm hearing you say is if it's within the district that a child needs OTP, those kind of services, then it is incumbent upon the district to make sure that the child received those services while they are attending the pre-K program.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yes.

[15385-151] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6, and the board's de facto roll-ca | 2023-11-01
PREV> Ben Nester: an earlier board meeting, this year we instituted a right, instituted a new process for in district special ed referrals. We adopted a new form that requires administration signature at the building level. And then my signature. So that has to come across my desk.
TEXT> And,  and I want to give credit to our teachers, to those that are, you know, working to provide RTI in the schools. So far, we've seen one special ed referral from our buildings this year,  which is  which is a success. And I think it's because our staff are working so hard to meet the students needs pre referral.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's that's. Very, very pleased. To make it.

[15385-158] Bonnie Miles | Claremont School Board member - the chair asks 'Bonnie did you have an | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Are there any more questions for Mr. Nestor? Bonnie did you have any or.
TEXT> Yeah.  So. We're moving. We want to move the pre-K into the buildings because it's better for the students. It's a more accepted model. I just want to know what the goal is.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So a bunch of reasons. So it's it's easier to, In a perfect world, you'd have we'd have enough capacity at the schools, both in terms of rooms and

[15385-166] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And if we have to increase class size or do other types of things, we need to make sure we can get all of this done, and that's what we're projecting.
TEXT> I what I'm hearing is a lot of this, this, this, this. And it's important for my perspective, for me to have a real plan laid out that addresses all of the things that we've been asking about, that you've been presenting and you're working on, so that we're not at the last minute, moving young children into a situation that might not be in their best interest, and having the staffing that's there. We have powers that are at the elementary level. We have Paris at the pre-K. Their skill sets are very, very different for young children versus a fourth or fifth grader. So I think in order to have a successful program for our youngest children, we really need to plan this out with great detail and understanding that we all want our kids to have so that they can all have the best experience and then be successful as they move up through the grades.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Good. Couldn't agree more. That's why we've been talking about it in the past few weeks. In October. We're modeling it right now in over the weekend. In November we're

[15385-366] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-11-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: No discussion. All in favor of setting our tuition rate for K through 51612 K through 12. Excuse me. K through 12. That's 16,000 per year for 2425. All in favor? Aye aye aye. Opposed. Same a. Is there any other business? Before the board.
TEXT> I have one thing I just would like to thank. Send out a thank you to Thomas Smith Knox at Claremont Middle School and Taylor Webb at Stephens High School, and the unity music teacher and the Newport Music teachers for bringing in the Dallas Brass Group. They conducted clinics and workshops for our middle school and high school kids over a period of days. They also performed for the elementary schools the following day, and there was a wonderful evening concert where all the band and choral members from those middle and high schools and Unity Elementary performed with that Dallas brass. Our students were so confident as they were playing. They were enthusiastic. The the focus that they had while they were playing, the audience etiquette was absolutely phenomenal, and they made quite a connection to the members of that brass band. It was excellent. I, I just those people deserve a very big thing here.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you.

[15413-5] Nicole Bouchard | Student board member, Stevens High School (grade 10) - the chair intro | 2023-11-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: the audience who would like to comment? Seeing no one in the audience commenting, we are going to close citizens comments. Now we'll turn our attention to our two student board members, new Cole Bouchard and Kylie Plummer. Did I say that correctly? Thank you.
TEXT> All right. Thank you for having me again. I just wanted to speak about a few brief little things. The first being is that I think Stevens should start to branch out colleges and future job opportunities to students starting in lower grades. So instead of talking about colleges starting at junior year, maybe we should start in freshman or sophomore year. And maybe making college visits more easy for students to go to. Second is how Spirit Week has been very beneficial to the student body. I think that it makes coming to school easier because it's kind of like a creative way to get students involved. I think that we should also encourage students to participate more in that. Some students around me have expressed some concerns about 504 plans changing. I'm not very educated on 504, but I thought I should bring it up. This year we have a 45 minute block called Focus Study where now we do excel, which you guys have heard about, or we finish work from classes that isn't done. But last year during that block, we had an opportunity to go to other teachers to get additional help.
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: But this year we don't. And since we don't have this anymore, and we did last year, I'm sure that there was a good reason to get rid of it.

[15413-34] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes.
TEXT> And so do you bring up some of these topics to the student council?
NEXT> Nicole Bouchard: Well, we don't.

[15413-40] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member (appointed 7/19/2023) - Mike Koski says  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Kylie Plummer: Yeah. They're definitely a lot of things that should be sorted out in that specific area.
TEXT> But because I think the student council could address, you know, as representatives of the student body with the administration, I think a lot of these could be worked out in that form.
NEXT> Kylie Plummer: I honestly hope that that comes. Currently, as far as like I've seen student council, I've only seen or heard about what they do through like fundraising and like school

[15413-72] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board - calls the meeting to order at segment  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Kylie Plummer: It's like they're like juniors and seniors. There's a college rep here. So a lot of people don't assume that that is extended to them in that sense. I, I would hope that it already would be, but it does not seem like that currently.
TEXT> Are there any questions? Our student representatives.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I've never heard so many questions asked.

[15413-373] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 - the chair says 'Mr. Tempesta, would you would  | 2023-11-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: hour? Our regularly scheduled meeting today for about a couple of hours. Okay. I think you were in the tail end of that today, Jen, but the, and I you know, I definitely recommend that signing it so that we can move forward with that.
TEXT> And they mentioned it. The second one that I have, I can do them both of you. Like, the second one I have was we had an opening  for at the middle school for an athletic director, and I had a discussion. Principal Romeo  reached out and he had a new PE teacher who was very excited about the opportunity.  This stipend didn't exist in the teachers contract. There is a clause in the teachers contract that we can reach out if there is something that comes up. I spoke to Tammy Yates and Karen Ladd,  and we followed,  the.  If you know, the I know many of you do who long time on the committee, the appendix and the tracks. There's a rationale as to why certain  positions are paid the way they are. So this one was basically  kind of tripling the three season 2800 to make it $1,500  stipend for an athletic director. The reason  principal Romeo  and myself in in in the the union like this is it's great to have a certified educator in the role incentivizes someone to stay around  as well. And it also has someone in-house on the CMS staff to be the ad, who knows the kids and the values and stuff like that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, we do have a person, you know, who did agree to do it, and we just wanted to put them formally before the board. I talked to Heather about

[15443-0] Frank Sprague | Chair, School Board finance/budget subcommittee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-11-30
PREV> 
TEXT> It looks like we're on the air.  So I'd like to welcome everybody at home and here to, our Claremont preliminary school budget for the 2425 fiscal year. My name is Frank Sprague. I'm the chair of this committee and vice chair of the Claremont Board.  Heather Whitney is on the committee. She's the chair of the Claremont board. And Candace Crawford is also on the committee. Claremont board member and Mike Tempesta, superintendent. Mike Kosky, assistant superintendent. Mary Henry,  business administrator. And  Ben Nester, who is our special ed director. And we have a couple of administrators here. Alyssa and I came in a brain cramp. Christine. Christine baker. Okay. Sorry. Christine. Just join us online. Okay. And Mark is online. Okay. So what we're going to do tonight, and it's, I just want to. So. So people out there know what what the purpose of the school board is in developing the budget is that we our charge is to make sure that  we we have the things that we we need to provide education to our kids. And it's a thoughtful process.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And at the same time, we need to make sure that whatever we bring forward is sustainable by the taxpayers. So it's sort of like walking along the edge of

[15443-2] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: walking along the edge of a razor blade. And, so at the end of this process, we'll hopefully have a number that accomplishes both of those things, supports our schools, and at the same time is something that the taxpayers will pass come, come March.
TEXT> And  so with that,  I think I'm going to turn any opening remarks you'd like to make or wouldn't it just again? Sure. Well, I can start. If you look at  we tried to put things just in a, an overview summary of the rationale of kind of four, four big buckets that we're looking at. All right. So the big ones that we had and we I tried to speak to this  school board as well as the  administration as we've been talking about goals and such. So one was to  reopening the paraprofessional contract to prioritize a fair and competitive contract,  sunsetting the additional staff that we brought in a few years ago, funded by the federal government, the Esser  positions  intended to mitigate student learning loss from the Covid 19 pandemic. And  we are also  trying to evaluate and fund some of the positions where the administrative team still feel are necessary for the academic, social, emotional and overall well-being for students in the Claremont Public Schools. So when you'll see those outlined  in the following  presentation, but then we're also focused on embedding  the early childhood program, really literacy and necessary early event intervention  directly in our elementary schools, not standing  alone in isolation up here at the tech center, and also to continue to decrease the high school dropout rate by a line in the high school and middle school schedules and academic and social expectations.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So some of these things we'll talk more in detail about tomorrow morning, and also that we will follow up in public presentations as well. You know, over the course

[15443-4] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: extra staff that includes the academic deans at the middle school, the academic centers at Stevens in the middle school, the elementary and middle school, summer programs in the after school tutoring that has gone on since Covid, the return from Covid in after school.
TEXT> All of those things expire in September of 24 next September, so we need to take most of that out of the budget, obviously, except the summer program that will be in the budget.  Many of the programs, including the summer school in academic deans and  academics  structure remaining at the middle school parallel to the high school are proposed by the principals to remain in the local budget. And we'll talk more about those tomorrow. Not necessarily tonight.  The other part that we have about embedding the early childhood program,  and we just kind of three  major points on that. One is the early childhood staff.  The elementary principals, central office and all. And I believe most of the board as well believe that it's more beneficial to operate those programs directly embedded in the elementary schools. And there are several  reasons why the tech center  it the program started up here as a program. We no longer have the program. And it's tough to be a standalone up here.  And  and it's also the differences in age and things like that for general student and student well-being. And excuse me, I apologize.  In the existing staff at the tech center would be assigned to the elementary schools.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we'll talk about some of that today. There is a space problem, though, at the at the elementary schools. And what I don't see in this that I have

[15443-5] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: tough to be a standalone up here. And and it's also the differences in age and things like that for general student and student well-being. And excuse me, I apologize. In the existing staff at the tech center would be assigned to the elementary schools.
TEXT> And we'll talk  about some of that today.  There is a space problem, though, at the at the elementary schools. And  what I don't see in this that I have is the  allocation of funds  to that to get portable classrooms.  At Disney and at, at bluff for that. But we do have that funded in the, in the Esser monies. We do have that, you know for that. But I that was in the last thing is to align the schedules. And Mr. Pratt will, next week while his staff, he won't be there. They will talk about the schedule of the programs and all the other stuff in the alignment of the seven seven period day.  For next year. So lots of stuff, lots of stuff going on. And all of it is focused on time on learning and student outcomes. Boring. Preface I apologize.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to ask a question to anticipation of tomorrow. Yeah. Changing the the schedule at Stevens is a, I suspect will be an issue with the union, as there

[15443-111] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School — recognised by the chair at [93] | 2023-11-30
PREV> Melissa Lewis: all of my increases for you. Special ed software. You see a line of $1,300, and that is for a new program that our special ed teachers have been trained in. There's a yearly fee for the online component to the program for each user.
TEXT> So the $1,300 is meets that requirement as well as I think it was like a $60 fee for a CBM, which is a progress monitoring tool that our special educators use for our students that one of my special educators was paying out of pocket. And I told her, no, no, no, we don't do that. We get it budgeted appropriately. You'll see my nurse has requested some additional supply  money, and that is literally just due to increased costs.  $1,000 in a nurse's office goes pretty quickly. And with the cost just increase in general,  we added $500 to cover that. My new nurse as well is interested and is working towards becoming a CPR trainer so that she can provide that service for our district. And so under health dues and fees, you see an addition of $285. That's the fees for her to be able to do that, as well as membership to New Hampshire,  Association of School Nurses, so she can stay up to date with all of that. You'll see a new line for me, and that is  in the administrative line for advertising.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: I asked for $500 there, and that's so we can advertise visually in front of the school banners and flags and things like that, that will help us attract as

[15443-221] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; finance subcommittee member — anchored  | 2023-11-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm not saying anything.
TEXT> The guidance counselor versus the social worker. So my assumption is. And tell me if I'm wrong, that the social worker would act, would engage on a different level with the families. Correct. Than a guidance counselor? Correct. So this is about expanding more, expanding the services outside of just focusing on the child.
NEXT> Melissa Lewis: Absolutely. So it's it's it's serving social workers really provide a nice liaison between home and school as well. They have the flexibility to be able to meet families where

[15443-299] Christine Baker | Principal, Bluff Elementary School (participating remotely) — named pr | 2023-11-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: Please refresh my refresh. Tell me, how many kids do you have in at bluff right now?
TEXT> Currently? 176.  But I will say that, due to the fact that we had two, few, two fewer teachers this year because of hiring purposes that we'd need that are budgeted for next year, and they're still in this year's budget, but we just didn't hire for, we had to send several of our second graders to Disney to take the overflow. Okay. So right now we're at 176. But I think if we were able to accept all of those students in, we would have been more like  190.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So does this budget reflect a population of 190? Yes.

[15443-326] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 — named in the opening round-robin (' | 2023-11-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: So and maybe this is a question for you then. I mean just conceptually if, if Disney has 256 students and they have 13 pairs and we've got 190 for 18 pairs, is it by the nature of the actual students involved?
TEXT> Yeah, it would be by the nature of nature of the student. And then and then also there's a, there's also a little bit of, gentle back and forth that I might have with regarding the. Okay, great TV cameras.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And, and are all these 18 pairs. I'm asking the right question. Pair twos.

[15443-485] Mark Blunt | Principal, Maple Avenue Elementary School (participating by telephone) | 2023-11-30
PREV> Candace Crawford: And and the.
TEXT> Intern and making sure that our, you know, that our students are, are literate and, and are able to do math. So, very important roles.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And the interventionists are in the grant funding budget there.

[15444-49] Frank Sprague | Chair, finance/budget subcommittee; Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: For health science.
TEXT> For health science, which, which our kids could access through start even even if we  did not have the person with the master's degree here to teach them, they could access them, through that,  even if they're while participating in a rad tech or whatever it would be, or nursing or whatever the heck we want to have here.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: So I, I talked to carry a number of times up at River Valley. They teach an early childhood education program, but there's a lot of things that could align.

[15444-56] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: Does that teacher, teach personal finance as well as the entrepreneurship?
TEXT> So right now, the first block, he teaches business entrepreneurship. We had about originally 6 or 8 students interested which scheduling conflicts. We wound up with four. And then one student drops. We have three in that class, which is good because it's a brand new teacher. He doesn't have a teaching credential background, so we're putting him on the all four. So he's really learning his way. And then  he has two more blocks in the day. And he's teaching just the juniors personal finance, which is now a requirement by the state.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And so he is on the all four.

[15444-60] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: And he is working through that. Correct. When will he be certified.
TEXT> That all four process is three years for any teacher that comes in. So we see that a lot in CTE because we try to recruit from the industry professionals that really know,  Mr. Belanger from the plumbing. And he was working in facilities here.  But that's the kind of guy you're going to work for later.  And so we really have a  lab environment where he acts as a supervisor in there and runs that. Some students don't like it, some students love it. So it's kind of one of those things. But if you're going to be working in that field, that's the kind of personalities you're going to be dealing with. And it's been a really good experience for the students.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Just the obvious question. There's the very first line is celery substitutes and it's 0000.

[15444-79] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: Yes. The teachers. So we if they came in and taught with one of our teachers then they could be there. But I couldn't leave them alone in a classroom unless they have their certification in the background check and all that.
TEXT> So we could not just just so I know, I'm sorry, I don't maybe I'm not processing this so we can't send our students there.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: We can't send them there.

[15444-150] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: Yes. Two questions. Sorry. Go ahead. The career counselor, can you explain to the public and the group the difference between a career counselor and a guidance counselor?
TEXT> Certification is the same. There a teacher technically, that has both backgrounds. Their career counselor would focus more on getting students ready for career oriented careers, such as the tech center, recruiting students, working with them.  To recruit at the high school, we really need to work on our work based learning, getting students out. There's some challenges with our unions, like plumbers. You can't go out to even intern until you're 18. Preferred building systems is fantastic, but they're like, we can't take students unless they're 18.  And that's just company policy. So we've got to figure out some ways to make that work. So our students here get actual work hands on experiences. We had a great relationship with Whelan. We're hoping that we can rekindle that. Where Mr. Pope used to take his manufacturing class out there so that they got a real great on site, but with Covid, that stopped starting back up again seems to be a little bit more of a challenge. But all those kinds of connections with us to help market, promote, sell it to parents, to kids about what they can do for careers. And then the career counselor can help with  resume interviewing  connections. We've talked about a job board trying to put one together. It's just more hands that we need on on deck to make that happen.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So my second question is the culinary program. I know that the culinary program serves the home requirement at the high school. So do you share the teacher salary with

[15444-153] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Alex Herzog: our kitchen that might be interested in culinary, take a class and then say, hey, I really want to do this next year. And that's a great opportunity for the teacher, one on one, to identify students that could be very successful in that field.
TEXT> And what's the breakdown of what percentage of the students are in the culinary program?
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[15444-164] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> And second, it's really more integrated into the business community. Correct. To see see what the jobs are out there and how our students can integrate and how we can set up programs that fulfill the needs of the business community. Correct. So it's a two way it's a much more,  integrated into the business community than the traditional guidance counselor might be.
NEXT> Alex Herzog: And when we had the part time career counselor, we had it for a half time about she would go into the classrooms here and pitch, okay, this is what

[15444-167] Alex Herzog | Director, Sugar River Valley Regional Technical Center (CTE director) | 2023-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Alex, following up the candy's follow up, would this person actually have a caseload? Kids that they were.
TEXT> Yeah. That's something,  you know,  with Mr. Pride on board, we work closely together so that we spent an hour figuring out schedules for next year. All those fun things.  I would work with Mr. Pratt on that to say, how do how do we make this happen with the caseload?  You know, I'd love to see, you know, the Newport model that you had experienced might be something we look at  that the CTE kids would can go talk to this counselor. And then, you know, my instructors have great  industry experience and great industry connections. A number of our students from last year are working in the fields because our teachers were like, you know, you should go apply here  and tell them, put me down as a reference.  And so that's that's the kind of connections we want. We want to amplify that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, one of the things I used to hear is that, my guidance counselor told me I couldn't take the second I couldn't complete because I've got to have algebra

[15444-186] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So next would be CMS. Mr. Romeo. You're on. Sorry. So again, as I told Mr. Herzog, if you. Could. Give us a thumbnail of of some of the more substantial changes in your budget proposal. Sure. What? The drivers are behind those?
TEXT> Sure.  So we don't have too many new proposals.  The same thing as Doctor Herzog said, we have some supply lines that we've increased.  We were awarded a grant, $97,000 for music instruments. And so with that comes sort of the maintenance and upkeep of that. So I asked for a little bit of an increase  in repairs. So eventually we're going to need to repair some of that stuff. We also received a grant from mountain bikes and snowshoes. And so we're going to need to stipend positions for clubs and activities. So I increase that as well. And then the rest of it going down the line, I know the, the big thing for me that I had  spoken about is the addition of or the keeping of the third counselor. Technically, we have two.  I'm asking that we have three. And the reason behind that simply is  with 367 kiddos and at times we've reached 400. There's always one in crisis.  And that would leave one counselor for the rest of our kids.  We're also introducing having our counselors teach. So following the Asker model  in sixth grade. It's about SL programing.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: In seventh grade, it's about academics. And in eighth grade, it's about sort of the college and career readiness. That track. And so we want all of our counselors to

[15444-189] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Unidentified: You're fine.
TEXT> So I, I think mainly those were the things that were looking at as increases to positions.  I know there's a big question about the student centers. Right. And the dean positions. When I first came here, we did have an academic center, sort of the place where if you had in-school suspension or if you had kiddos that needed to go. That was always in the budget.  I would like to retain at least one of those rooms, sort of as an academic slash behavioral room. And I believe that  you have something similar in your building that is academic and know behavior as rooms. So just looking to keep pace with what the high school has,  and what that can look like.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. So go ahead.

[15444-195] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So using your current model with grade based teachers right now, how many classes and how many students does do those teachers cover versus going to a more comprehensive. Model, which would be.
TEXT> So right now  we have our kids that take our five core  classes right. So it's English, science, social studies, math and UA. So we have five technically learning blocks in our built in our schedule. We have one through four.  We then have lunch which is an hour and a half. And then we have a fifth block. Our teachers currently teach three out of the five, and the reason that we have done that, there is an increase to the class size, but our teachers sub within our own building. They do the IEP 504. They have lunch duties.  They also work in the student centers with our students. They have team meetings and stuff like that. So that extra block is actually not an extra block of time for them. It's an extra block of time within the school. We have a  you brought up substitutes and I have the line here of $5,000. We don't technically usually sub out from outside the building. We sub within the building because our teachers know our kiddos. And so from a discipline standpoint, it's a lot easier than having somebody from the outside who doesn't know our system. And so we sub for one another. And that's what our schedule allows as well.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And they get a statement for that.

[15444-269] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: So to the point where the with the teachers, what is the average how many how many students does your average teacher and CMS actually educate and be responsible for, for, you know, evaluating etcetera. And what is the standard, the national average?
TEXT> So to answer to the question in the current model in which we have in which our teachers teach  are three out of the five classes, it's come somewhere around,  60 kids. IT classes sizes are around 20. Some are a little higher, some a little lower, just the way the schedule works. If we were to teach four out of the five and take away that extra class, then you're looking at 17 roughly about where where we were. If they taught four out of the five, but then we would lose them for all the duties. We would lose them for covering classes, we would lose them for the student center, 500 for meetings, IEP. So the toss up for us was, do we want our teachers available for more things within our building.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Or or teaching.

[15444-272] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Unidentified: Or.
TEXT> Having smaller class sizes? Right. So our students don't lose out on any educational opportunities. They still have the same amount of classes. It's whether a teacher teaches three out of 5 or 4 out of five, and has a number of duties  and other obligations within the building.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So do you know what the national average?

[15444-277] Mary Henry | Business Administrator, Claremont School District / SAU 6 | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: This is probably not your your ability to answer. No worries. But it's in sped. There's a tuition, a decrease of 425,001 increase of private placement of 61,000.
TEXT> Yes. Actually the kids, some of the kids have moved on to the high school. So you're going to see an increase in the high schools.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Okay. And is that why the Sped salaries are down 132,000?

[15444-488] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Candace Crawford: What was that, again.
TEXT> Is the $40,000 that we used for all the town fields. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, the city fields that we use. So that's the other big increase you see there in the Athletics for the coaches, you'll see some increases there. And that's based on what we found out is that  a lot of the larger teams only have one coach. And so what we looked at is  looking at hiring some assistant coaches strictly for liability reasons. Because if we have it's an away game and a student gets hurt. Right now we have the coach going to the hospital. No one's going back on the bus with the kids. So you'll see, I think a 23, 20 something increase on the coaching salaries there. And that's what that's about.  Besides that and you'll see little increments, to some of the different departments. And that's because I want to stop budgeting now for when the Esser grants run out to cover the cost of like the, the Excel. And we've, we got the grant for the yonder. So we don't have to worry about that. But down the road we will. So I'm trying to add the money in incrementally to the budget. So it's not one big increase at at 1.1 or 2 years down the road.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. Anybody ready with questions? Just jump right.

[15444-604] Chris Pratt | Principal, Stevens High School | 2023-12-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Probably be ten, 20, ten and 12 kids.
TEXT> Yeah, I'd have to ask. We'd have to ask Ben on that. But I know what what we're trying to do. I think the hiccup right now is that, you know, we have the academy now upstairs, and we have about 14 students in that.  But right now, none of them are. None of them are special ed kids. Yeah. And if you recall, we really wanted that program so we could stop bringing kids back. Yeah, right. And we've tried. But the problem is we cannot find special educators to take on that role of level of need, you know, for the students. So I think that's the I mean, that's my opinion. I think that's the hangup right now is finding the the bodies so we can expand the program to get some of these kids from the outside, because the kids who are out of placement right now, we don't have the the bodies to get them into the program.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I mean, I understand I'm an English major and I'm not that great at math, but even I can figure out that that's about 10% of the class is out

[15444-631] Frank Sprague | Chair, finance/budget subcommittee; Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2023-12-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We don't feel it's sustainable. So we're trying to.
TEXT> The other concern I have having worked in Newport for so many years is I, I have to express my concern as to,  and I hate to say this because I've benefited greatly from from the Orion group, but I worry about the what the kids are actually getting in a place like Granite Hill.  And really what they're being exposed to is Granite Hills, an offshoot of Orion House, which,  deals with a lot of kids that are involved in the court system. So I worry about that a lot, having dealt firsthand with some of those kids at Newport. So,  we really need to look at that. If they're at Granite Hill, I think as a that, I mean, I see that as a temporary kind of waypoint along the way. On your way back to, to school, you know, you've been the you've done your, your penance, you're halfway back, you're in Granite Hill, and then you go back to your or you come back to your home school, but, have kids there for a year after year. I just don't that's good.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Mike.

[15444-1284] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Chair; finance/budget subcommittee member | 2023-12-01
PREV> Mary Henry: Yes. That's on my list to, to get some ranges.
TEXT> To that point. I think it's important that the community has an opportunity to digest this before we have our deliberative session. Right. And this gets brought out to the community, because I think there's going to be some some misconceptions about what this means for the education at Claremont,  a CMS, and it needs to be parsed out and relate in a way where there's a full understanding of what the teaching equity is and the impact, the negative impact, in my opinion, of not having the most highly qualified professionals actively engaged in educational activities at CMS, and that there's there's actually a benefit I would see as a benefit, but that's me as a layperson that from the medical profession, I can't imagine having a physician doing something that a nursing assistant would be doing. That would be a gross mismanagement of resources and a disservice to the to patients. So I can only directly translate that into this kind of a situation. But unless it's presented in a way that the community can digest it as not a negative, but a, a net positive for the student population, I think we may have a situation where there's going to be a demand or a, a, a disconnect about the validity of this budget change and the impact of the  schedule change.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I'm interested in teacher reaction to that because that's a substantial change.

[15451-35] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-18
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> And,  the title of this page is sunset. Additional staff funded by federal Esser positions intended to mitigate student learning loss due to impact the impact of Covid.  And then it is a number of things. And for example, if I look at  the middle school, there are  academic deans and CMS academic center structure remaining at CMS. And when I look at CMS.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: And we've already. Asked for that information.

[15451-224] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Let me ask a question. Why do we have a career counselor at the tech, when normally that sits within the guidance department at the high school?
TEXT> There's a difference between  I know this because I've been working on the visioning committee and a career council. That's a lot different than guidance counselor. First of all, the high school, the counselors are not called guidance counselors. They're called school counselors because they don't focus on just guidance. And we were told that repeatedly that they are not guidance counselors at the high school. Okay. And the career counselor work at the tech center is one who works out in the community with employers much more than the guidance person. Yes, yes, yes. Goes out, sees the jobs that, that the tech center will be training the students for. What are the,   job requirements that need to be trained and placement of some of those kids in, in the programs after they've been to the tech center, let's place them out in the community in the jobs they're going to be doing later. That's what a career council. It's very different.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So your director doesn't do that because I guess. No, no. If the size of your tech center and I'm looking at equivalents, I don't know of anybody in the

[15451-259] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: number? That would be helpful for me. Okay. So we have documentation previously that we have a budget positive impact of 300,000 for fiscal year 2026. That was where we started from. That sounds like we're starting from a different budget impact with this proposal.
TEXT> But that's not real. So looking so looking at positions that we have not been able to fill and understanding a teacher shortage and understanding that. And historically we have not had full year science and social studies. So we've had less teachers in the building. What we're looking to do is make sure that we had science and social studies full year, but recognizing we can run a schedule that will allow more of our teachers to meet with more of our students. So, in other words, right now our teachers teach three out of the five blocks that we have. Right? And the reason is, is there's a lot of duties that they do during the day. Student centers, we sub for one another those type of things. We also have an enrichment block which is opposite our lunch, which is sort of a project based learning in which teachers also see students. So that is academic time as well. But recognizing that we may not be able to fill all the positions, and also understanding that we want more of our teachers to see more of our students, what we did was ask them now for next year, instead of having  up to four six teachers per content area. So in other words, six for Ela, six for math, six for science, six for social studies.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: We're able to extend our schedule out another block, which takes us from 56 minutes to 42 minutes, roughly of instructional time. Right? 45. Sorry. 4545 because we took passing

[15451-260] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Romeo: teachers to see more of our students, what we did was ask them now for next year, instead of having up to four six teachers per content area. So in other words, six for Ela, six for math, six for science, six for social studies.
TEXT> We're able to extend our schedule out another block, which takes us from 56 minutes to 42 minutes, roughly of instructional time. Right? 45. Sorry. 4545 because we took passing time out  and allow the teachers that we have instead of teaching three out of there now going to be teaching four out of this six blocks. Plus they will be doing an enrichment block, which is a project based learning block. So we are giving our teachers  more time with our students by extending out the blocks that we have. We were concentrating everything into one and recognizing if we spread out a little bit more. We utilize the teachers that we have and don't have to have some of those classes like we talked about a civics class or something like this.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Will be full year.

[15451-262] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Will be full year.
TEXT> Yes, they're all full year classes.  And the, the, the hardest thing to do for us at CMS, we only have five classes to offer our students math, science, social studies, English and the you when you extend out another block. We don't have foreign language, right. We don't have advanced classes per se. So what we have to do is be creative with what other block or our students going to have. So that's why we doubled up with UA giving them exposure to be able to advance some of those classes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I'm a U, a teacher and I teach PE.

[15451-294] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Miss Foster: they have lagging skills in their content area. And sitting down with a teacher 1 to 1 outside of their peers, looking at them can make an enormous difference in getting them back on track and back ready to reenter the classroom as a whole.
TEXT> I've also seen them use so as a teacher.  And I've been asked this because I taught social studies. There's no studies teacher that's working on a project. And if you're going to take 22 kids to the library, that's a lot to be able to get to everybody. So this somebody from the student center may assist and go, what's the project you're working on? I could take some of your kids right now without you either having to leave the class or,  or be able to split up equally so that I can work with the kiddos as well, so we can accomplish what you have in place.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So these learning. Center, there's there's no staff for these learning centers other than the teachers on a rotation basis.

[15451-308] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Miss Foster: may. They are not. Most most of the time they've started. They started there. Yeah. And then something happened. Either they got overwhelmed and they asked to go to the Academic center for support or there was a behavior issue. And so a behavior issue.
TEXT> Is I an admin gets called down normally. Traditionally an admin gets called down for a behavioral issue. That'll happen. So do does a student need to be removed. Does a student just need a break. Does the student need to catch up on some work. What is what needs to happen? And that's the idea behind what that student center is and the person that serves inside that side.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Can you tell me about the incidence of occurrence that this happens?

[15451-350] Miss Foster | Claremont Middle School staff member who built the proposed CMS master | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay.
TEXT> And that person also attends like as part of that team. They're usually in those meetings so they can do that collaboration. You're talking about about behavioral. That's an important part of those student meetings.
NEXT> Frank Romeo: So they'll they'll attend all grade level meetings with student concerns so that they can get feedback and understanding of what's happening in the classrooms.

[15451-438] Frank Romeo | Principal, Claremont Middle School - named by Heather Whitney at segme | 2023-12-18
PREV> Unidentified: That's not right. Right right, right. Thank you. Right. That's right. Is that,
TEXT> I have preached the the social emotional need. Of right. Of my, my community and my school. And if I had the wand, yes, I would put an act two academic centers in with a tier one person that would be able to staff that, along with administration and the teacher cycle that we have, because it does add and provide more to our students that we need, right. In addition, the third counselor. But I get and I know you have to do what you do. My job is to absolutely advocate for the needs of my building, and.
NEXT> Unidentified: I'm glad you do it.

[15451-553] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-18
PREV> Heather Whitney: Them do rooms.
TEXT> What's happening to those kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They're they're they've combined for.

[15451-878] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - addressed by | 2023-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: I misunderstood.
TEXT> When I was asking when I, when I was kind of trying to parry a little bit with Mr. Romeo is, you know, how can we get what we need for our students in the most cost effective way? And what do we need to maintain what we have now? So to me, there wasn't having Mr. Romeo, Principal Romeo come up and and walk through that schedule was really helpful. But I need to know what what is discretionary. And that's really all I need to know. What what can we make a decision about without reducing what our students are getting now, like our bare bones and work from there? Like I'm always working from zero budget and going up instead of the big budget and going back down. So for instance, we're talking so.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: What process would you like to use?

[15451-895] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - addressed by | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: At is.
TEXT> Is honestly, we I think we have to decide as a board or as, as a finance committee. Like what are what are we consider the solid bare minimum to be to be able to provide our students what they need and simply work from there. And because that's what that's the what is. I mean, we can say we have a target number, and I'm not necessarily saying that I want I want to go above that target increase. But our our goals and values are we want to build space in the budget to make sure that we are adequately paying staff so we can attract the best and the brightest and stop having this yoyo staffing. And and we almost are cannibalizing our staff at times, I think. I mean.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: We don't even have staff. I mean, there's many.

[15451-899] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - addressed by | 2023-12-18
PREV> Candace Crawford: Even the teachers.
TEXT> Correct. So when I am looking at this budget, I am looking at like, what's my long term aim and what am I trying to provide to the district in the next five years? And what do we need to do to create a budget that is going to support that  long term goal, as well as not  harming our ability to give our students what we need, as on the short, you know,  at a short term goal. So what do we have at our discretion?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So what you're saying.

[15451-980] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: it's a fair budget. I think the budget over the past 4 or 5 years has had little increases in it overall. And, and we have, I don't know, in our standing in the region and with our, with our contracts has gone up immensely.
TEXT> One of the things about the what, what concerns me about the middle school proposal is that, what we got here talks about academics, learning loss, student learning loss. And what I'm hearing from Mr. Romeo  is, social, emotional. And so, but we don't we were never I mean, it would be would have been very helpful  to have gotten over the last two years of pumping hundreds of thousands of dollars into interventions, again, most most of it being Esser money into deans and social, you know, social workers or whatever all these supports are. It would have been nice to see how they track their data, if it's power school or Swiss data or what they have. But it would have been nice to see for me to make these decisions. It would have been nice to see that something actually worked  and I didn't. I mean, he's telling me that it helped.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: I don't.

[15451-999] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - addressed by name by Candace Crawfo | 2023-12-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: Know, but I think that's why they did it to get the class sizes down. That's why they have the combined.
TEXT> Yes. Yeah. That's the that's the model of control that they, they don't want to give up with that. The kids are still is it the control of having small classes for the for the kids particularly with the sixth graders. They, they increase at the seventh and eighth.  But they.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: They need bigger classes or smaller classes at the highest.

[15452-253] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - Sprague says at segment 1 "we'v | 2023-12-06
PREV> Candace Crawford: Right. Okay. Now, back to my question. Oh, you said that the director that question is coming under item for. Got it. Okay. All right. Keep going.
TEXT> Okay. Let's see. So at a district that's obviously a very significant budget item. We're looking at relatively no significant change there. In terms of what we're forecasting for next year. One of the big shifts you'll see in the budget lines is that, there the the vast majority of the students that are currently out placed have aged up. Yeah. It's almost captured entirely in the high school, out of district budget numbers.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: Do you have a. Round number of how many other district placements we have?

[15452-309] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - Sprague says at segment 1 "we'v | 2023-12-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: So do those positions not exist anymore?
TEXT> No. The. I tried to do a brief history of it. At the elementary school level, there's the principal and then the student service coordinator. Yeah. And those were those were put in many, many years ago under Middleton, I believe.  And they weren't they weren't special ed trained individuals. They at the time, they were more social work type background or working with that risk youth and things like that. You know, it's morphed a little bit over time.  At the at the middle school level, there was a long time special ed coordinator, that was there up until two years ago when we, when we made an effort to reduce the budget by cutting that position out and splitting the special ed coordinator position at the high school with the middle school.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: The special ed coordinator. Okay.

[15452-395] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; finance/budget subcommittee - named by  | 2023-12-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And working side by side with the skilled principal. Yeah as well. And that used to be the model. As well.
TEXT> For direction oversight. Program planning. Checking meeting criteria, meeting benchmarks for those kids. It. Yeah. That is so important.
NEXT> Ben Nester: It is, it is. And our early childhood program needs an entire revamp, as we've discussed. I mean, I would certainly support leaving the director position in. But if just,

[15453-93] Arlene Hawkins | Claremont School Board member (elected 3/14/2023) and SAU 6 Board chai | 2023-12-06
PREV> Unidentified: It's good.
TEXT> I have a comment and a question. I my comment is thank you for the time that you all have put into this process. I mean, the hours, the Thursday night, the Friday today. Thank you for doing that and having the opportunity. I've tried to watch and as I was watching, I was thinking, I wish I had the binder because I could follow as it was done. So hopefully there will be time for me over the weekend before Wednesday. So I'll know what questions to ask. But I'll have that video in front of me as well. My question has to do with one of the levels, one of the school levels, where it was a discussion about a reduction in staff and. I don't know what the plan is or was, but for me, I I'd like to know what that's going to look like in the course of that school experience for those teachers and for those students before I'm asked to vote to do that. I don't know if I'm.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: No. Yes. For the same thing.

[15453-112] Whitney Skillen | Claremont School Board member; CHAIR of the policy subcommittee - she  | 2023-12-06
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: Quick if you're looking.
TEXT> At the agenda, it says we're doing a presentation on the operational guide and delegation of policy audits, but we're not quite there yet. So that presentation. Is probably going to come in January.  So this presentation is an update on our activities and what the what the school board policy. The Claremont School Board Policy Committee has been up to what we're doing and where we're going.  For the sake of transparency, for the sake of understanding of for everyone to know what the policy committee does and is doing. And to keep me on my toes. So we're moving forward with our, our objectives. So our current activities  are can be put into two buckets. The first one is an audit of the Claremont School Board Policy Manual. In this process we have drafted a policy Audit tracker spreadsheet that is part of a shared Google Drive for the Claremont School Board Policy Committee. All of the all of the committee members are included on it, and all of the administration members are included on that shared drive. And anyone else on the school board who wants to be part of that shared drive can be added to it.  Right now it's still being organized. So the main the most important things that you'll see in there are like just a few files, the audit tracker, a couple of folders.
NEXT> Whitney Skillen: And I can go into more detail about those individually on a one on one basis. Just just email me or call me. So while we've been as part of

[15455-120] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board member - the chair recognis | 2023-12-07
PREV> Unidentified: I can open one. That they had friends visiting.
TEXT> And I'm down on the floor and the kids run in and they're looking. At me, and I just want to go. But I couldn't.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[15471-36] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - addressed by name by Candace Crawfo | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: Yeah. Interested in that part.
TEXT> So the one part I want to be clear on this is this schedule is not all the way. It's  not it's not it's we haven't gone into the weeds with it.  With the middle school. We haven't done that. All I was doing is looking at a way for more equity for both,  schools and also knowing the other needs in the elementary schools. So if some of the staffing were shifted to other places, I think it would benefit students more.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: So how do how did the staff, how's the staff and, and the Syria responding to this?

[15471-59] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I know I want them, I want them to talk about it. I've, I've only I've seen the numbers and I know that there's two sections and I have to crosswalk this with them.
TEXT> One of my concerns is again the before the horse,  agreeing to this budget and this level of expenditure for the teaching line before pretty much anything has worked out. I mean, it sounds like you have a plan, but that it hasn't been cross-referenced with teachers, with the union, with parents. Correct.  And that's a concern for me. I feel like if I, if I saw the plan, if I saw how  it had worked out with the s, I how I could see how the teachers at the middle school were on board with this. And and if you showed how  it made sense for student and student achievement, that would be a lot easier for it to accept.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[15471-73] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: You're talking about the high school now.
TEXT> I'm talking about the high school. So I don't know how. But having looked at  with a variety of data teams over the years, looking at particularly, as you said, math, world language, music, these types of things, they do much better in a full year format. Other courses do not  necessarily, but I am concerned with the,  what happened,  as I expressed earlier,  kids getting to calculus, for example, in when they without having to double up, which, seems like a taller doubling with a pre-calculus and advanced math or Algebra two. That plus the  when the kids if they do have a whoops. When did when do they make it up.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: In the summer.

[15471-75] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - named by Tem | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: In the summer.
TEXT> So just a question to that point is for me, having I think having a heavy class load, if you are somebody who's working towards an honors diploma, makes you feel  more prepared for a college environment. I think that we're putting kids in college environments now. And I can say that because I had once one of my children graduated from this district and one of my children graduated from a private school, that was much more rigorous. And I can tell you that they both had fantastic grades. Yeah, but one of them was able to handle the pressure of college academic requirements better than the other.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Oh no doubt. I mean, my own my own son, took advanced math at the middle school and was unable to get sequentially get the next course his first

[15471-92] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: And three guidance counselors.
TEXT> Three guidance counselors. And, Two assistant principals, three deans, a social worker, three guidance counselors. And thinking it's all about the education of what the kids in the class teaching. And and it looks like we have a huge answer. Yes. Yeah. And I mean, that's not even talking about the Paris.  And, I mean, and as I've spoken before, the concept of deans, academic deans that are Paris drives me nuts. That's that that's an oxymoron.
NEXT> Unidentified: So I do. So here's.

[15471-109] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: All right. So is it is it safe to say we're just not ready to like talk about this further because we don't have the. Yeah. I mean, like, I don't want to waste if we don't have.
TEXT> I mean, I think you I think you've heard some of our concerns, and I think that the, the academic impact for the students, you know, what's the justification? That still isn't clear to me. And I, I don't want to replace teachers with, with  agreed.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We see it the same way.

[15471-111] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We see it the same way.
TEXT> And it sounds like, my God,  it's principals, assistant principals, academic deans, social worker, guidance counselor, academic center. The kids don't have any time to be in class.  And that that whole configuration just leaves me cold.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Well, I haven't seen any evidence that there's been academic achievement with this model.

[15471-146] Frank Sprague | Chair, Claremont School Board Finance Committee; Vice Chair, Claremont | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: And I see that. Right. And I do think I mean, I understand, Mr. Tempesta, you know, working out the numbers, you know, you can make the numbers work. We want to see the the social and economic benefits, not just manipulating the numbers around.
TEXT> Well, it says right in the second paragraph here that the,  a proposed by the principles remain in the local budget as they have positively impacted student achievement. That's your point, is that. I. Don't see it. We haven't seen it. We haven't seen that.  I'm going to ask just an odd one off question.  And and then we can onto some other thoughts. So I was looking on what's up Claremont yesterday and well, it's a legit thing. And people were wondering about  and people are legitimately worried about their tax rate. And there was  several people  had asked city councilors Nick and Bill and they said, we're waiting on the school district. Yeah. And so,  we've never had an actual budget now,  I don't think,  we really won't have a budget until something.
NEXT> Candace Crawford: It's not. The two aren't related.

[15471-271] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Candace Crawford: And, and it's a subject matter that they probably aren't familiar with. And and so. If we're buying the two things for in this year's budget, then don't cost anything. And the staff is going to the new ones, and we're not having a director.
TEXT> I see and hear that the estimated impact of this is $100,000. And why couldn't why is there an increase if none of that what I just said, and I am still concerned about the kids in the preschool program a have some success and show me how  just moving around without having some direction, coordination and God save us curriculum,  how they can, how we can expect them to be successful. Okay, that's my concern.
NEXT> Ben Nester: I would just say review the review, the documents that I've already shared regarding the recommendations. Heather, I just shared a document with you that you didn't have. I put

[15471-346] Heather Whitney | Chair, Claremont School Board; Finance Committee member - named by Tem | 2023-12-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: hump obstacles that surfaced when we talked about restructuring, so that it could be more local to the school than it mitigates a lot of those things that, that we encountered previously. So that that that's also one of the goals, many of the goals.
TEXT> So if I'm going to summarize this for me, what I'm hearing and I think I'm right about this, is that this move out of the technical center is not necessarily  a invigorate  of the program. It's not really redesigning the program. It is freeing space up. The purpose of doing this is to more closely align,  special education and preschool services with the typical standard that is seen in other districts and is commonly accepted as the. The more  I don't know what's the word I'm looking for. Standard of care is what I would use in my biz  standard of service. Provision. Sustainable  and the and how that is going to occur is that the children will physically be next to schools where they can actively walk across the parking lot, go into the school, participate in special activities, or have special activity. Teachers come into these new classrooms because of proximity. Makes that easier simply because of proximity. They'll have more access to  nursing services that is not provided currently here am I?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It is provided here, but it's the same situation now. We'll have it in two spaces.

[15471-351] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - addressed as "Ben" by Candace C | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: moving the students to proximity to services that will make servicing those students more efficient and more effective. It's we're not making this change right now to revamp the preschool program. It's to maximize available resources into free up space at the sugar River tech.
TEXT> Right. There's two other big benefits that I want to put out there. That's what. We do believe will affect student achievement.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[15471-414] Candace Crawford | Claremont School Board member; Finance Committee member - addressed as | 2023-12-13
PREV> Heather Whitney: your point. How are we going to make sure that there's equity in those schools and how we are allocating our FTEs? And the global social worker that we have now that operates on a district level, what's going to happen with with that time?
TEXT> The support staff is important. Yes. But I don't want the support staff to be running the show. I want the support staff to be support staff. I want the focus on education and and delivery of services to those kids to improve their scores. And  I don't want them budget to be spent on, you know, nurses, social workers, guidance people,  academic centers, campus monitors,  academic deans, you know. You've got my point.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah. Questions for us.

[15472-115] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent of Schools, SAU 6 - the chair gives him the floor at 10 | 2023-12-14
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: I'm now the amended part of the agenda. Additional business, Mr. Tempesta.
TEXT> Yeah. So I, I, it's a tough one, so I, I regret to inform the, the board that, Ben Nestor has a is going to leave us. He has accepted a position as the director of student services in Lebanon, and. We're having. Him for his career. But we're a little crushed, so he's  done an amazing job.  For the last nine years in Claremont. And,  obviously for the FAA, you as well. I from my perspective, absolute,  advocate for all students, staff in the rights of students. Arguably the toughest job in any school district to do that ethically and keep costs down and, and, happy for him, but, a little bit, a little bit, a. Lot crushed. I'm saying. But, yes.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One is it immediately or.

[15472-130] Arlene Hawkins | SAU 6 Joint Board Chair; Claremont School Board member - presides thro | 2023-12-14
PREV> Unidentified: Oh. Did you give any?
TEXT> Mr. Nestor, we wish you well and know that we are truly saddened. And I've not been on this board very long. But the willingness I see of you to to communicate, to talk, to work out the best thing and your compassion and commitment to the students is quite evident. So we hate to see you go, but congratulations to you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, congratulations.

[15472-133] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 - his own onset, clipped into the | 2023-12-14
PREV> Arlene Hawkins: You will be missed.
TEXT> Thank you. I just I'll say that I. I've valued my time here and especially the relationships that I've built with the the kids, the families and the and the staff. So, you know, it's always have a special place.
NEXT> Arlene Hawkins: How long have you been here?

[15483-16] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Sullivan District 8; member of the | 2023-12-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: regarding personal complaints regarding school personnel, or complaints against any person connected to the school system. Complaints regarding individual employees must and will be directed to the Superintendent of Schools. And is there anyone wishing to speak to comments at this time? No, Miss Daimon.
TEXT> Thank you and good evening. I'm Hope Daimon, state representative for Sullivan district eight. I serve on House Education Committee and I am just here to give a quick update on proceedings.  The House will resume full sessions on January 3rd. We have a lengthy list of retained bills, including about 20 education related bills to address at that time. The two retain bills on education that I would in particular highlight are HB 268,  which if passes would require nonpublic schools and education service providers if they accept public funds to perform background checks on all employees and designated volunteers. So it's essentially we put in place the same background checks that you public schools do now everywhere else. And it is a highly debated bill. So any input is appreciated on that. And then also HB 601, which is Medicaid direct certification for free and reduced meals, meaning that if that bill were to pass, children who are already enrolled in Medicaid, that would be communicated from the Department of Health and Human Services to the Department of Education, and then to school districts to automatically enroll those children in free and reduced lunches, thereby increasing our ability to address hunger and food insecurity so that there are other many retained bills.
NEXT> Hope Damon: But I would just highlight those two in particular. And then just going forward, we have, I believe, somewhere in the 800 something number of bills in total at the

[15483-17] Hope Damon | New Hampshire State Representative, Sullivan District 8; member of the | 2023-12-20
PREV> Hope Damon: the Department of Health and Human Services to the Department of Education, and then to school districts to automatically enroll those children in free and reduced lunches, thereby increasing our ability to address hunger and food insecurity so that there are other many retained bills.
TEXT> But I would just highlight those two in particular.  And then just going forward, we have,  I believe, somewhere in the 800 something number of bills in total at the House and probably 150 to 200 at the Senate coming forward for the 2024 session, which as a first time rep, I'm told that there's supposed to be less work in the second year. It doesn't look like that. That's not a complaint, just an observation. I am co-sponsoring several education related bills and the several that I want to just quickly highlight.  1014 would require school districts and private high schools to develop programs that inform students about registering to vote. It's not in any way requiring voter registration. It's nonpartisan. It's simply saying part of our education should be helping students be aware of how do you become a registered voter? It suggests, but does not require collaboration with election.  Officials in municipalities.  And then also 1087 would establish a commission to study information literacy and media literacy in public schools, basically looking at how do we help our kids know what they need to know to handle all kinds of media appropriately and effectively.  And we are  revisiting new bill number,  one 109, which would require school ID cards for kids from grades six through 12 to include the helpline from the National Alliance for Eating Disorders.
NEXT> Hope Damon: A very similar bill last year did make it to the governor's desk, and we actually had to ask him to veto it, which is very not the way you

[15483-46] Alex Hill | Teacher, Claremont Middle School; resident of Ward 3 - self-identifies | 2023-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Three, three, three.
TEXT> I'm in Ward three.  I am also a  teacher at the middle school.  I would like to  share my opinion on this. Talk about altering the middle school schedule.  I was on the middle school scheduling committee for a number of years, and  over those years, we attempted to address concerns that we had with student achievement and student engagement. Based on hard data that we were getting through our PBIs, that's a behavior tracking system that we used to use. We now use something slightly different,  and we made changes to our schedule to come to where we are now.  My understanding is that there is a push to go from a five classes a day to a seven classes a day. Which is a little confusing because we teach Ela, math, science illustrates. And then we have a unified arts, and that's five classes.  I'm not sure where the extra two classes would come from without hiring, say, like a foreign language, which would be sweet, like bring it.   But if we were to go from a five class to a seven class schedule, that would go from a 55 minute class to a 45 minute class, and over the course of a one quarter, which is where I see most of my classes, that is ten minutes times 45 days, which is 4450 minutes of instruction time lost.
NEXT> Alex Hill: And I've heard an argument before that this would increase the amount of instruction time with students. The students are there all day, but this would decrease the amount of

[15483-50] Sarah Ferland | School counselor, Claremont Middle School; resident of Ward 3 - self-i | 2023-12-20
PREV> Sarah Ferland: just really feel if we go this road that a lot of people will leave. And the sad part is for the teachers is that if we feel like it's not a good place for us or that's not going to work, we can leave.
TEXT> But the kids, unfortunately, they have to stay.  They don't have that choice.  The A's will have, like, 23 kids, which is a very big number. When I was there, there was two UA teachers for every,  UA, and that left them with like 12 kids per class and in classes like tech ed or, you know, very hands on classes, that could be a problem. There are no deans to deal with some of the behaviors that are going on.  One less counselor. And without those positions, I would not. If we go down to two counselors, I would not be able to teach my UA. And that's like psycho education for all the kids in the school.  Also, there won't be as many people to de-escalate or deal with issues. And then when we have that problem, what we feel is we can't address everything. Then parents need to come in and talk with us and we have to have parent meetings. This pulls us more away from dealing with the children. So yes, I guess in conclusion, I just want to say that I think that, you know, I think it's maybe trying to lessen the bleed, but I think it would be if we went to this proposed schedule, I think it would be more like a bleed out.
NEXT> Sarah Ferland: I have a son who's coming next year, and I think with this proposed schedule, the teachers will be teaching way more students, which will be harder for them to

[15483-53] Tom Smith | Music teacher (band and chorus) and unified arts team leader, Claremon | 2023-12-20
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you.
TEXT> Hello and good evening. My name is Tom Smith.  I am the music teacher. I teach music band and chorus at the at Claremont Middle School. I'm also the unified arts team leader.  This is my eighth year in the district. My colleagues and I are here this evening to express our strong disagreement concerning the proposed schedule and staffing changes at Claremont Middle School. The CMS staff spends every day making student centered decisions. I personally believe that the,  the these decisions are not being made with students in mind. The CMS team has worked diligently over the last several years under Frank Romeo's leadership to fully fleshed out our supports of students despite constant, constant change in staff turnover. We have created a schedule and systems in place that enable us to support students not only academically, but socially and emotionally. These proposed changes will force us to attempt to maintain this progress with one hand tied behind their back, students academic success and emotional and social growth will suffer,  putting more responsibility and more workload on less teachers and expecting the same results will lead to a decrease in staff  morale and a decrease in retention. Thank you so much for your time.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[15483-60] Russ Fernald | Civics teacher, Claremont Middle School - self-identifies at segment 9 | 2023-12-20
PREV> Heather Whitney: Is there anyone else that would like to speak or stand in a show of support for what folks have said?
TEXT> I'll try.  By name is Russ Fernald.  Civics middle school  CMS. I've taught for 20 years in Texas. We went to I was teaching last year six classes in high school, 48 minute classes. I can tell you that at the end of the school day, we were whipped. I mean, whipped,  usually 25 plus kids.  I came here,  this is the first time in my educational career where the teachers could actually take the time to  look into individual students down south. We only talked about curriculum here. We actually talk about kids. Right? And you just don't have that time when you're whipped.  Just looking at Mr. Romeo and his leadership on this, the commitment is amazing. I mean, it's amazing comparatively.  So I just, just from teaching in that system coming here, and I grew up here, and I know the system. We had time to do things, you know,  in middle school, play  hockey or something. That time that the kids, these kids that have incredible amounts of energy to do something like that, to do enrichment makes a huge difference to the learning day. And so it may  look like a good decision. I can tell you.  I've, I've seen the other the other side of this standardized testing down south where, where education is so focused on scores, we you know, we have such diverse levels here.
NEXT> Russ Fernald: Those scores are going to be incredibly hard to bring up with all these different levels. That's just public public schools. So if you're looking at test scores, it's not

[15483-61] Russ Fernald | Civics teacher, Claremont Middle School - self-identifies at segment 9 | 2023-12-20
PREV> Russ Fernald: day. And so it may look like a good decision. I can tell you. I've, I've seen the other the other side of this standardized testing down south where, where education is so focused on scores, we you know, we have such diverse levels here.
TEXT> Those scores are going to be incredibly hard to bring up with all these different levels. That's just public public schools. So if you're looking at test scores,  it's not going to help. The other thing I noticed when I came here is everybody comes to school. Yeah, this is a country either country schools.  But there was a culture of skipping down south and that that comes from this, just trying to cram everything into 48 minutes, put more onto the students. I mean, they were they were tired. The kids were tired. They mentally tired.  So I just wanted to bring that perspective here to y'all. Briefly. Thank you.
NEXT> Katie Smith Knox: Hi, I'm Katie Smith Knox. I teach Ela sixth grade at the middle school. I've been at CMS for almost a decade. This is my eighth year and I've stayed

