[11262-261] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well.
TEXT> From my perspective, it's all. Three of those things, right? So we're we're looking red. We know that if, if, we have some control during this period. That, that, that they're out. And it's all those things I don't have if you wanted, you know, and if we had a subcommittee or you want to you have a proposal for a metric, I sometimes I it's it's tough to say. Well, hey, you don't want when this is at 60 and this is at 50 and then we're a go. It's, it's it's capricious. So it's, it's the convergence of all those things.  And and I got to be honest with you, I'm not ready to roll the dice on those things. And I don't know that it's a really unfair. I know how we all feel. All the principals, everyone. We all feel that we want the kids back as soon as possible. I'm hoping it goes down quickly. I was I love that it dipped a little. It could come right back up, but but I don't I don't know that no one has. I think what makes us so uncomfortable is we just don't know. So if I would entertain what people have for perspectives of that  of of where those numbers are, I think certainly it would be in the, in the low 60s, and then it would also be the transmission rate and it would be.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: The positive rate.

[11262-264] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: our factor in those things. I'm just looking at what general practice is. And most people in our region have have gone to remote or hybrid already with a third of the numbers we have. And I don't think we're, you know, I don't think.
TEXT> Right. So here's the thing that, Heather, I think I think I know I understand what you're saying, okay, I fully do. So we go. So if we go remote, when do we bring the kids back? That's what your question is. And I think that's what we need to come up with. Right. We need to come up with something. What's what's the determining factor. We already have a matrix in place that says when do we go remote? We go remote. Right now our matrix is saying the level of school impact. It's high. The level of community transmission is high.  We should be in remote. We should be in remote.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, I'm not okay.

[11262-279] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I, I guess I don't know, positive vibes. That's what we're hoping it looks it looks so ominous when you look at the numbers and the recent spike. But I'm hoping it goes down. I we we all are. We don't. It's it's just, I.
TEXT> Mike nothing precludes you from coming back and saying I recommend an earlier date based on a significant change in the numbers. It's hard. And the teachers, it's hard on the families and the kids. But we could always make a determination to come back earlier if the numbers go in the right direction. We're just trying to give a feel that the first is our next time that we believe is the time to look, to look into it again.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Well.

[11262-281] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: Well.
TEXT> Here's the other thing that we're doing. We're also working on those 65 placement of the students coming back. We're we need time to do that. We're reaching out. We're contacting we're moving staff. There's a there's a lot to this. We're moving furniture out of rooms and the like. And I do think I think Jason wants wants to go next. All right.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Thank.

[11262-301] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Michael Petrin: Jason.
TEXT> So. We've had cases, a couple cases with with some spread at the middle school. We've had some at the high school and we had  one at Maple Ave, but for the most part, not a ton at the elementary level, right? Am I correct? That's not all I'm going to say.  I guess my concern is the elementary school kids in general. I think people who are much smarter than me about child  development would, would say that you're going to get most of your solid foundation by what about third grade? And if you miss that, then you're sort of set on a trajectory for  not as great as an experience as you could have had.  So has it been any conversation or thought as to trying to keep the elementary school in session  or, instead of just all or nothing? Because  at one point we had the conversation that we really had to look at it from school to school, rather than a whole  conglomerate of all of the schools together.  So  has there been any consideration to that?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So there, there. And I know we have some principals on there too, if they want to chime in, but we, we have it's a big consideration. So we

[11262-339] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-01-13
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Better, player.
TEXT> So I just want to make the point that I think we can base some of the matrix on what?  Donna can, gather as far as teachers and staff that are coming off quarantine and they're ready to come back. That's a school impact. That's how we look at school impact. And then we also base it partially on the community numbers. Me personally, right now with the staff members that are out or have to be out on quarantine, I don't think the education that kids will be getting in school is any is so splitting up. So we have some remote, some in school is not going to do justice for any of the kids. So right now with the school impact, I can't support going back to school. I support going you're continuing remote. I guess with that said, I'll make a motion if we want.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Go ahead.

[11262-409] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-01-13
PREV> Frank Sprague: Thanks, Ray.
TEXT> I do know that this comment that I'm going to, that I'm going to say is probably I'm probably going to upset people. But being the one that does Covid, I got one kid that test positive on a basketball team. The whole team is done. And so because you can't justify where this kid is, you, you know, so we're talking 20, 30 kids possibly. So as much as I love sports, it, if we can't, the kids can't be educated in the buildings and we shouldn't be having sports.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other other citizens that would like to speak.

[11262-412] Lisa | Public commenter, third grade teacher in the district (announced as 'L | 2021-01-13
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah, you have Lisa. Lisa.. I am.
TEXT> I'm a third grade teacher in the district. I, I this is a tough call all the way around. You know, this is a very, very caring community.  We care about, especially for our kids. We care about our kids. So, you know, we want them to be safe. We want we want our, our friends and our loved ones to be safe. It's just a really tough call. I do want to say that our the elementary school kids, they really.  They need to be in school. I really appreciate that you're looking  out for us. They. They need to know how to read and and write and do their math. And I know it's tough on them, to do it remotely. This this year is a lot better than it was last spring.  Just because we have more knowledge, we have more experience. We're learning how to do this thing, this remote thing better. But as soon as we can, we we need to get them back so we can we can just, explore together and, you know, question together and read together and do all those wonderful things together. I,  I appreciated. I think it's Jason. It says just because I've had. But I think it's Jason.  His comment about k three kids,
NEXT> Lisa: You know, at third grade. They're they're just starting to learn to read and going to read to learn. And I'm concerned for them. I know that I'm just concerned

[11276-79] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance and HR, SAU 6 | 2021-02-01
PREV> Richard Seaman: through attrition that are being anticipated to be reduced. Superintendent and Tempesta can speak to it in more detail, but this is just looking at the class sizes, the offerings that we have and saying, is it an expense that we really need to have?
TEXT> But if a position vacates or someone retires, then question needs to be not just, well, we need to put it back, but do we need that position?  Can we either not have to have it and reduce the budget? Or can we look at alternative investment strategies so as to support the strategic plan? But there is included in here yet to be finalized, a reduction in positions of $584,000. The next line items are just informational. I had spoken about the maintenance  where there's the reduction in the maintenance budget, which is included above, and the district wide, and transportation  is seeing a modest increase for next year. Excuse me. And that also is captured within the district wide total dollars. Technology investments are down from  what was in the budget this year. Going into next year, the district certainly has benefited from the CARES act money, the money that came from the federal government related to the pandemic. And,  Jeff Small has been investing heavily in technology to support remote learning and also to support once the kids are back in the classroom, just an improved level of technology to support the learning that we have.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: But with the investments we've made this year, we're looking at a reduced level of investment for next year and hopefully to continue to see that as we benefit from

[11276-91] Tracy Pope | School District Moderator | 2021-02-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at those things with historical enrollments and kind of in kind of a shift towards what's popular for for our, for students and what they need. So, all of it in line with the strategic plan and but, but but it's shaping up quite nicely.
TEXT> So thank you.  Superintendent Michael Tempesta and assistant superintendent, Richard Siemens, any registered voters wishing to speak for or against article two, the main budget? I remind you comments, concerns or requested amendments can be submitted to Melissa Small between now and 4 p.m. February 4th via email to 2021. Claremont meeting all one word at Saw 6.org  or mailed to her at the SA offices, 165 Broad Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. I will now close discussion on article two on behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your virtual tendance at tonight's meeting and again remind you the school district warrant and agendas can be found on the school district web page. Members of the public may access the meeting online via a link shown on the school district's web page. Claremont residents can also view these meetings on CCTV channel eight. Members of the public may watch the meeting in person via live streaming at Stevens High School Auditorium, 175 Broad Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. If you would like to reserve a seat at Stevens High School, please call Melissa Small at 5434200, extension 6009. Comments, concerns or requested amendments can be submitted to Melissa Small.
NEXT> Tracy Pope: Between now and 4 p.m. on February 4th via email to 2021. Claremont meeting at Saw six dot or or mailed to her at the Saw offices, 165 Broad Street,

[11281-26] Mrs. Pope | School district moderator (addressed 'Mrs. Pope' and 'Madam moderator' | 2021-02-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: by line through this budget, with the administration, with the principals, with the people that put the budget together. So this is, not at all a rubber stamp budget. This has been gone through thoroughly and, fully backed by the school board. So thank you.
TEXT> Thank you so much, Mr. Peterson. And thank the subcommittee for all their hard work. I there any other school board members wishing to speak? Seeing none, I would like to now close discussion on Attica two and move this Attica to the alternative ballot as posted on behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your virtual attendance at tonight's meeting and again, remind you voting will be from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. on March 9th, 2021. Ward one will be voting at Stevens High School, located at 175 Broad Street, Claremont, New Hampshire, where two will be voting at the Claremont Middle School located at 17107 South Street. Claremont, New Hampshire and Ward three will be voting at Distant Elementary School, located at 160 Hanover Street, Claremont, New Hampshire. Voters participating in drive thru voting will be required to press the driver's license or state issued identification card against the window of their vehicle to be checked in. Walk through voting will be allowed in all three voting places.
NEXT> Mrs. Pope: As in any city election, absentee voting will also be available. Absentee registration is allowed is allowed for residential or temporarily absent from the city, such as college students and

[11390-7] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with this is that this actually happened a year ago. Almost to the day or within five days. Last last week, a little bit. But the we were pouring out, and then everything stopped. We have had a lot of time to to review these.
TEXT> And most of them, we're just going to  begin again  with, with the committee work and other other highlights. And I'll start going through those now.  Our, our focus areas for the strategic plan.  Next slide please, Mr. Small.  Are to increase the learning and and and teaching at saw six  predicated upon increased student achievement.  Increasing student time on learning. And that also has a little bit more meaning than it did at the end of last year, in that we have a lot more experience for, for better or for worse. And I think there's been many positive gains  with this, with the blended learning environment where people have,  have had a lot of  support in individual instruction through  computers as well. Absolutely no substitute and can never supplant in-person learning and things like that. But what we have learned with that,  we're, we're we're hopeful that we can carry some of those lessons learned towards,  different platforms and things like that and supports for students.  We are often running on the recruiting, the best and the brightest.  We we have a,  again, our budget is approved.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have some many retirements. It we're looking forward. We have some online hiring fairs for, at area colleges. And we already have interview scheduled, which is exciting that that

[11390-11] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have two platforms. We have some students who are being taught remotely by teachers who are also remote. And as we're looking at this, that's what we have a couple of meetings coming up to. We may have to have some teachers come back.
TEXT> We don't know exactly what the impact will be. We will have all of that,  with the with  in finality for the next meeting. But we're we're still in process for that. But it's looking it's looking very hopeful. And at first I thought and I see it in there now, I had 85% return when I sent this out. But  after a week of doing it, the principals from the calls that they're making think the number is going to be higher than that. So it could be over over 90% back, which is which is wonderful, you know, so that that's what we're hoping for.  Very, very  positive on that.  We still  have the, the obstacle of and we're still we're talking about students being masks and still adhering to all the protocols that we have. It also helps in the spring,  going  towards towards summer as well as that we're we're outside even more  in and  in the like so that that's, that's looking like it's trending very much in our favor to be able to do all of that. All right. This  this is a next slide, please. Just a clip from the governor's.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: News conference. It still has. And we just have some of the guidance today. Like I said, I did this last week to get it to the board, and we

[11390-32] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Know. Well well taken. All right. And I think that's I think that's all I had in my report. Anyone has questions on it or. Sure.
TEXT> I just want to keep beating this dead horse. What percentage of our students are  functioning on grade level? Do we have a sense of where the student body is?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: We don't.

[11390-34] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: We don't.
TEXT> We don't have an exact percentage of who's we're. I will say that. Everyone this year, for all students, it has been greatly diminished. We we we don't have  a metric or anything right now looking we're looking more holistic at. It's at student gains and deficits. We don't we don't have like an exit. You know,
NEXT> Donna Magoon: There was no standardized testing this year.

[11390-50] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: Including our more. Yes.
TEXT> Well we worked hard for it. And if not for the adherence to all the protocols in the in the staffing and all the equipment and all the I mean, staff are doing an amazing job holding up everything they have been and the kids have been fabulous. It's it's no picnic. But  the younger the kid, it seems,  the more they fall into it and that they don't even think about it anymore. It'll be great when all the masks are off and we're not looking like we are around the room as well. But,  but they've been rock stars, so it's it's been great.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay, sure.

[11390-52] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, sure.
TEXT> I just have a high level anxiety about promoting kids that are not at grade level and how I mean, it seems like every, every grade is behind. So how are we going to manage that to make to ensure that the kids that are graduating in five years are actually meeting those benchmarks? When this cares, money runs out. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So it's it's fair. So so we hope it's just as quickly as we can. We're attacking it by individual tutoring. We're attacking it by summer programs like this. The

[11390-142] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Petrin: April 12th. That's okay. And then my other question or comment would be then I believe you said that. So as we're coming up to that date, we're reassessing whether we can bust the high school kids or not. We're looking.
TEXT> At we're looking at what we what we would have. So approximately right now, last time we looked at the bus numbers, with the stagger in the way we had it, ridership was about, on average, I think 15 or so kids on a bus. We know when they when they come back and that's and that's very that's the average. So some are some are up at 20. The panel and her crew, I was on the phone with them today. They do an amazing job. They have a color coded. All the sibs that are in one seat. They stretch it as much as they can do it.  And now what they're doing keeping up with the on thanks to we love Google docs. Right. So as as the as  the people on the phones and the schools are putting them into Google Doc, they're looking at the Google Docs, ascertaining the, the bus route, the you know, they they know the kids, you know, from the years and stuff like that. They're doing that really quickly, giving us nearly real time responses as to the capacity of those busses. So we're meeting tomorrow to look at that. And, and we're, we're,  we're optimistic. Why not be okay until, until we have to do our next shift and our wave? But.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So maybe slightly off topic, but as we look going back fourth quarter, I think even right now, I'm hopeful that we're also looking at the return of the clubs,

[11390-146] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: So can I ask what is following up on Mike's comment? What's the what is the obstacle to, Key Club or.
TEXT> Well, I, I don't know the exact roster. How many kids in the room in the, in all that stuff, so I can't speak directly to it. But I know initially that was part of it. And initially there were, I don't know if it was the broadcasting in every room, I would think it would be  able to do it on a smart board or things like that. Even if the kids were mostly I think they're they're on the broadcasting in. Right.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Currently Key. Club is virtual.

[11390-275] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair this meeting [127-132]) | 2021-03-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: mean, we all know that there are inadequacies in the state. We all know that towns have advantages. The big and I talked to Mike Tempesta about this already. One of the big takeaways for me and Carolyn, I appreciate it when you do this.
TEXT> If you'd either mention it or listen for it is one of the things that they've said that makes, this difficult is the fact that many people are convinced that New Hampshire students are doing just fine academically. And so what is the problem? Our students perform highly. They perform well.  I used to be a guidance director years ago, and I had students who were vying for National Merit scholarships  and other awards associated with College Board testing. And when I would look to see who the kids were that were National Merit Finalists and such.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Concentrated.

[11390-277] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (re-elected chair this meeting [127-132]) | 2021-03-17
PREV> Heather Whitney: Concentrated.
TEXT> They were going to schools like Saint Paul's, K way, Hampton School. So not only are our New Hampshire kids included in the data, and not only the best and brightest from the United States factored into the New Hampshire data, but the some of the best and brightest in the world are factored into the New Hampshire data because of the of the drawing power of these schools. So I sent in the question if they have disaggregated in looking at student achievement at in New Hampshire, have you disaggregated schools who are kids, who are non New Hampshire residents and not and non United States residents that are actually factored into the New Hampshire testing. So I think that's important. You know, when people are talking about, gee our kids are doing great. Well why are they. Do you know who's doing great. So I think it's an important thing to bring up. I sent that off to you and H. I have not heard back yet. So from them on a response. So that being said.  So these are our interesting these these these professional development opportunities.  So looking at the future agenda items, I would ask the administration if there's anything on there that you could bring to us  April 7th that we could. Could talk about April.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we we are still finalizing. I'm sorry.

[11390-281] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (presides at the opening until officers are elec | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: So that that that probably will be ready for May. I would anticipate. But we're also trying to find a way to report that out. And that's what we're seeing with with the the system. So I think that would be May in terms of.
TEXT> We may be able we may have preliminary numbers on. But I don't know that we would have that. I know we can report I know that we're doing that now. We're lining those kids up and ready to intervene. You know, for the summer program, just that I mentioned.  And that is impacts to remote learning and plans to assist them. High school schedules, the same grading system. Pay to play sports is something we talked about before. We could we could bring that up again. I don't know that I'd have a proposal ready. And that came up for those of you who who don't know, we had some historical, relationships with students that really came out, like everything else during Covid, where in one case, student was from Vermont or other people from other towns were playing in our middle school programs, and we we charged them, you know, a fee. And just the idea of that in general, we're where is the board on  on that if we want to talk about that, we can put that on as a board item. I think that would be maybe referred to a, a policy and committee as well. But, that might.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Be because I know one of the other things that we look at is that's very touchy for high school, because high school, you can't it's almost like setting up

[11390-282] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-03-17
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that in general, we're where is the board on on that if we want to talk about that, we can put that on as a board item. I think that would be maybe referred to a, a policy and committee as well. But, that might.
TEXT> Be because I know one of the other things that we look at is that's very touchy for high school, because high school, you can't it's almost like setting up a team. Right? So if you have the the school that has the best team and all of a sudden they start having, you know, oh, I like this team. I'm just going to pay for my kid to be on that go. You know, on that team there's been an issue. So that's  they they  frown on that in high school levels.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[11390-284] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-03-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So my asking you about that is not necessarily the kids that are out of district. My question is do we look at a pay to play for all students  okay. To offset a bit of the budget in the expense of sports? Do we look at it I mean, a small fee schedule, I would assume  football would cost more to play than bowling team, but okay. My question was do we look at that for all students? Are there any schools that currently do that?  Is that something we want to look as a board want to look at. So it's that kids from the district is one piece but pay to play for all students was my question. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, I mean, I, I can try to have Doug put some together and see what he knows about that with with the with the councils. I'm not aware of

[11444-58] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-07
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Perfect. Student representative. Report.
TEXT> River Valley Regional Technical Center five programs will be offered this summer to middle school students. Registration will be shared next week. The options are culinary, computers and business. Explore your future career searching, building with wood, robotics and engineering. And then on April 19th, the Tech Center will host eighth graders from Claremont and Unity to showcase our programs and give some hands on experiences. Students from our current programs will be tour guides and then, in cooperation with the Sullivan County Jail, the two week inmate program will take place again this summer, and National Technical Honor Society students have been identified and contacted, and an award ceremony will take place later to semester at Stevens. Quarter three will be ending this Friday, April 9th. Students should have all assignments completed and submitted by the end of the day on the ninth.  A big congratulations to Gabby Szabo for being named the 2021 New Hampshire You can Government editor in chief, and then seniors should be checking their emails regularly for updates on senior activities and updates on the local scholarship packet. That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 20th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair. The link is inside of the report given and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited

[11444-59] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-07
PREV> Prescott Herzog: That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 20th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
TEXT> The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair.  The link is inside of the report given  and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited to welcome even more Disney friends back to in-person learning on April 12th. Students here are returning to in-person learning should bring all of their school supplies back with them. We look forward to connect. Continue to connect online for those who are remaining remote. And then congratulations to last week's winning classes for School Spirit. Miss Clinton clinics, kindergarten and Miss Sergeant second graders. And then at Maple Avenue  on April 12th, Maple Ave will be the school with the highest percentage of in-person learners to accommodate all of those returning to in-person learning. We will welcome back all of our current remote teachers and the students who have chosen to return. All remote students who are returning will have the classroom teachers that they have been working with remotely. And then the two would like to announce that they are having a spirit workshop sponsored by Ink Factory, and it is up and running. Please check  the link. It's not in this document, but  it's on the Maple Avenue  newsletter  to get tees, hoodies and vest for youth and adult sizes. And then attached at the bottom is the flier for the sea six summer program, upcoming this summer.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[11444-61] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Questions for the student left for comments. I'd like to make  a quick comment. Something that,  for the benefit of the graduating class, is that the alumni association has  updated their web page. They have,  now,   are excepting PayPal. So if you go in and look at their scholarships, you can actually toggle down the ones that the scholarships that you would like to donate to. You can select an amount and then you don't have to write a check. You just simply get on and select PayPal. And you can make a contribution of any size that you'd like to, any scholarship that you'd like.  Right on their updated web page. So I would encourage people who aren't even Stephen's graduates to go in and take a look,  and donate some money to our deserving seniors to help them with their college plans. So I know that's up and running. All right. Superintendents report.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure. That's, I'd like to know. That was just a piggy back off of that. I know that was a long time in communication with the alumni association. Kind of

[11444-97] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there's kind of like a rubric or an or something that.
TEXT> So what? It's So what we have is we have general guidance of how we can use it for the in literally there's the three bullets that are in, in your, in the, in the packet that you can use it. You use it for  for for gaps. You can use it for  a  few things. What has  come around. And this this happens sometimes when things happen. I think the change of all of this  of this year and basically money's coming in. It's being allocated in their, their, the guidelines and  things are changing as fast as they're putting the money out there. So I don't know how to say it any more clearly than that. But  so for example, so we have also heard talk that there would be for the first allocation of, of,  of cares to that there would be a certain percentage that you can use of up to 25% for immediate impact to, to remediate,  deficits from student learning. Again, that general  language, you're looking at 400,000. You know, more than enough for what we're planning. We're planning is generally and conservatively as we can, but we're also aggressively hiring in booking camps and doing all these things. We started this camp that is going to be preregistration all this a month ago, knowing this was coming five weeks ago, like it was more than a month ago.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and now we'll be signing people out, working with the community center to do that as soon as possible. So in the, you know, to look at it in

[11444-110] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: say. They say this to me a lot. It's, it's it's been a lot that, you know, but it, it's, it's been a heck of a week. And my hat's off to, to all of the work that's been done. So we're, we're on it.
TEXT> So like, oh,  I had. To just a comment or. Question, I guess. To me, it's great to see, you know, I'm taking my son up at the park and seeing all the kids out there practicing and,  back to sports. And I know people are working hard. The I still see that maybe lagging behind, and I'm not sure why. Maybe they need a push. Maybe there's just there's not the voice that sports has for some of the other or the smaller groups, the smaller after school groups, the smaller drama groups, the course, the,  band, things like that just seem to be to me. And maybe it's just my opinion still lagging behind.  I mean, I think we're at the point where we're really from the top down from administration to principals really need to be asking the question of why, if we're not seeing a return to these after school programs, they're not picking up again, the, you know,  choirs, band drama, are they looking to do performances? And if if we're not looking at something, the question from the top street, why not? Why are we not looking to adapt these? Because I think those are the, you know, those kids need a voice to. And they they're not one big collaborative group. I hate to keep saying sports with sports is a is a bigger, loud group.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: They have the force behind them, our drama and arts and, smaller after school programs don't have that voice. So I'd like to see the voice coming from us from

[11444-117] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-07
PREV> Donna Magoon: I think because it's the size of them and there's just not a room enough for social distancing. And so at the time things are going on, there may be a space.
TEXT> I think, if they're still meeting, in my opinion, if they're still meeting virtually still why there should be space. It's nice whether there's plenty of space outdoors.  Drama programs should be, in my opinion, thinking about planning a maybe it's too late for this year, but planning some sort of performance could be performed outside, but not be the best sound quality if you know. But these kids deserve to have to be up on stage. Whether it's drama, choir, band in front of the people,  with the appropriate measures taken, I just.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[11444-125] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Guess what I might have.
TEXT> Sorry, I. Was just going to. Say like. So like most of my, my clubs that I'm doing online,  are  online and meeting and I think that it's just because like disproportionately the members  and specifically leadership in a lot of these clubs are remote students. And so in order for there to still be like that, that access and for them to participate in, like actually be in, commit to their leadership positions. The meetings still need to be online.  I know at the beginning when there was more people who were online, National Honor Society was trying to meet inside of the, the, the auditorium. And it was just like there was like echoing. And it's like it's really complicated to try and be doing both the like, the in-person and the remote. So like with youth and government, we just meet Wednesdays after school  on a Google classroom, and that kind of works best just to make sure that everybody can join if they want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think Mr.. Peters concern, though, is that there are groups out there that that want to assemble as. Physically. Physically as groups and, and are being denied that. I

[11444-141] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: The school. The questions.
TEXT> I just have one concern about the marketing of the summer program or,  not only the marketing, but targeting it to specific students are our students that are in high risk or high need. Are are people reaching out to their families to really encourage them? Are we able to identify which students are at higher risk for the greatest disparity.
NEXT> Unidentified: And yeah.

[11444-172] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: go towards stuff. So we have forget the exact count. Jeff, I think is 100 and 140. State of the art smart board I pads like 65. Amazing. Each classroom is outfitted in the district. It has a camera capacity and follows a the teacher.
TEXT> It can be used for distance learning. It can be used by the kids to present. And it's just it's just wonderful stuff.  And that's what it is. It is for exactly that, for stuff to bridge the gap, the spirit of the grant to. And we've all we've only had a couple meetings so far. I have with  Superintendent Landry and Superintendent Minahan about how we can also look to programmatically, maybe use that technology that each of us now has in the schools to share learning opportunities for kids, clubs, all  these other types of things we can do. So we're excited about that part. That's the after it is,  you know, for future years. But that's that's what the commitment commit. What you're doing is accepting the money. We have a small match that we have to do, which is $80,000 for the to match to get. It's a 8515  ratio. What that that money is already budgeted. We're putting in the same boards that Jeff and his crew have already started. We're just finishing the job with this for 50. So it really is just accepting that, getting it in the minutes that it has the blessing of the board and going forward.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[11444-231] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Michael Tempesta: think we, we know that we have had the issue for middle school teams and other things creep up where we've let people come in. I think we just iron that out, how how we're going to do it so that we start next year.
TEXT> Clean,  whether it's a nominal fee or whatever. We don't want to detract to the degree to which we promote people to come to,  to Claremont and to eventually play for Stevens, that's one avenue. But we also want to make sure that it's,  you know, it's not an infringement or displacement for taxpayers in what they pay for services, including athletics for their kids. So there's a little bit of substance to that that we can that we can,  kind of hash out,  a lot of the things,  we can look at some of the data. We had people start pulling the data.  And a lot of that's in process. We looked at the historical values where we were, particularly at the high school and some of those other things, but they don't know yet because it's second midway through.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are we talking achievement levels? H is that what your.

[11444-260] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-07
PREV> Unidentified: Retreat agenda. I mean, that'll.
TEXT> Be in there for that. That is a goal. So one of the goals that we have for that is,  time on learning, which it's, it's in that goal.  It's it's exactly how we're using the resources we have for the grade level, for interventions and for student achievement. So one and that's, that's what started that, that whole thing that we thought we could do it better. We could have fewer kids in the class in, in  and look at it closely and have more concentrated interventions, particularly for literacy. K two that was our target right away. And then go three five different kind of developmental band. And that's that's where that, that's that's the discussion we had seemed like it was three years ago, but.
NEXT> Unidentified: It was last year.

[11510-15] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: To accept the meeting. Minutes from April 18th, 2021. School board retreat and April 7th, 2021.
TEXT> We'll give it to Josh. Okay. Further discussion on the minutes. All those in favor  opposed? Citizens comments. Do we have any citizens with this? Seeing none, I'll close citizens comments and we'll go to our student report.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: We just got to spring break. They emailed the board saying that there wasn't going to be one. Yeah.

[11510-34] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the web for beginning tomorrow. We are going to have improvement plans, yearly improvement plans, and some advisory councils to the schools that piggyback off of the existing school council leadership teams that that they have, but trying to create more of a feedback loop.
TEXT> In the community also superintendents advisory council.  Next. Next slide please. And these these are the  the focus areas  that we have. We boiled it down to learning and teaching at six to improve all student achievement. Increasing  and individualized student time on learning, recruiting and retaining the best possible staff.  School safety  SL, which is the acronym for Social Emotional Learning,  Student Welfare and the Return to Normalcy. Imagine that. Okay. So that's that's that's what we're shooting for.  It's on a call today with some doctors from are  from from Dartmouth. And we don't know exactly what normalcy will be. But  but we want to we want to go back to education as it used to be in person  in a similar vein, but,  creating in district special ed programing. A continuation of that at saw six to, to educate students  in their own with their peers  in  revamping district and school governance structures.  Next slide please, Mr. Small. So the  the largest focus on, on things that we're, we're looking at is are  the first  2 or 3. All of them are important and none more important than the learning and teaching and how we support that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And the specific bullets that we're looking at that will break out in our administrative team when we when we go plan and things like that at our, we'll have

[11510-35] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: structures. Next slide please, Mr. Small. So the the largest focus on, on things that we're, we're looking at is are the first 2 or 3. All of them are important and none more important than the learning and teaching and how we support that.
TEXT> And the specific bullets that we're looking at that will break out in our administrative team  when we when we  go plan and things like that at our,  we'll have a retreat to close the year and a retreat to,  to open the year as well.  But we're going to be looking at student time per class and subject area, really taking a deeper dive into the historical data. The last 2 or 3 years, the trends of what we've had for enrollment,  what the expectations are,  you know, in the community for higher ed, for all the options for kids. Looking at  class size and resource  analysis all the way through through K to 12  blended learning opportunities for students and staff,  meeting and  technology environments, other types of environments that we'll talk about as well. Benchmarking and measuring student achievement consistently so that we're visiting those each year. And  you can't show growth or measure growth both in groups  or individually for students, unless you're tracking that and not that. We don't do that, but we want to look at  some  other, other measures to do  things like that. And again, the difference between the individual  student achievement,  students own personal growth in gains and competency skills and other outcomes,  as well as  looking at group achievement.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So the graduating class, how many kids went on looking at an exit data, other types of things that the guidance departments doing a they have just some some very

[11510-38] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: different, but, collegiate experiences with the community college looking how we can do that in kind of the traditional ellos that we have. We have many opportunities for this, but we want to dig in to see which sets of those experience match each kid.
TEXT> So you don't necessarily have to be  tech center kid to have  an internship in the community. And we want to reach out and kind of match those things up.  And, and just really reach out to how we can get more supports, particularly  stepping stone,  targeted career support  for kids investigating  work opportunities. School calendars, embedded  PLCs and kind of paradigm shifts to how we go about that so that we're constantly having a  competencies with our own expectations for teachers and learning and things like that. And again, we'll have a presentation on that because I think it's wonderful work that's being done.  The aligning the PD. And I know that it sounds like it's an obvious thing, but sometimes it's a lot harder than, than it is of, of  focusing on the student outcomes.  For what? For what teachers are doing. There's a lot going on. And also  what's exciting to us, and I think we talked about it before, we're starting to,  get tremendous  gains from the cares. You hear these if you  use at home the esser in the cares money. These are Covid relief.  Federal funding that doesn't  is outside of the taxpayer's budget. But we have the opportunity to use that money  as we're using it for the summer camp now to  focus on  learning  deficits and things like that because of Covid.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But we have the opportunity to also have extended day and programing opportunities, push in things like, and we were talking today about targeting our learning centers and libraries. To

[11510-39] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: money. These are Covid relief. Federal funding that doesn't is outside of the taxpayer's budget. But we have the opportunity to use that money as we're using it for the summer camp now to focus on learning deficits and things like that because of Covid.
TEXT> But we have the opportunity to also have extended day  and programing opportunities, push in things like,  and we were talking today about targeting our learning centers and libraries.  To make those more, more  modern and have complete sets. It's an infusion of  support. That is it's just it's really exciting for us. We're all  we're talking about today. We're exhausted from  almost a survival theme of this year, like everyone else and every other sector.  But it  really is,  you know,  invigorating to think about what we're going to be able to do for, for the kids over the next couple of years. Next one.  Mr. small  recruiting and retaining the best and brightest staff. We already did get a great start on this and we're pushing it. It's a very competitive market right now. We're discussing that today in our leadership meeting.  Having having specific hiring and recruitment goals. Outwork. Excuse me. Net networking and outreach and partnerships with teacher read programs that we're establishing  multi-level  some courses.  That  at the tech kind of targeting teacher prep classes potentially and have proposals for that.  Consistency with our induction and retention  programs. And we also have   some things that were revamping there. Okay.  Next slide please.
NEXT> Unidentified: Wow. That's a lot of words. Okay.

[11510-41] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Wow. That's a lot of words. Okay.
TEXT> So school safety SEL and student welfare and the return to normalcy.  Basically we had started that as well with the social emotional learning and having interventions when we expanded a couple  of our social work,  worker positions.  Looking and making sure that that, that we had,  reach out and wraparound supports for kids at each grade level and  we did not foresee, you know, what would how essential that would be in  Covid times. But it's great to have that. And  and they've been doing great work.  Outreach, transparency and interactions with students and families. One measure of that I mentioned was  the governance structures. And doing that physically reaching out with scheduled meetings with more stakeholders  in school affairs, that that's a given. We're also we had a really  a  positive meeting of how we're converting our website to to reach out and target  and get out to folks  as well. And we have a kickoff.  We had the kickoff meetings today, and we're hoping we're looking to roll that out for July.  As well. That's that's when we're targeting it being done.  And resume and expand. And this is,  Principal Barry and her team will talk about this after. It's it's it was  we looked at we looked at a venue  with her and just just getting getting back to as close as we can, just thinking about completely.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We can't commit to exactly what we're going to look like, you know, in the, in the fall. But we're, we're confident with, you know, vaccinations and with protocols that,

[11510-44] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: that, to come. The superintendent's advisory council. I'm looking for 6 to 8 community members, business leaders, parents from each level. Just so that we meet regularly, a couple of board members who want to be on on that to to be a nice balance.
TEXT> Some of the things we talked about in the  in the retreat.  We are going to have some  board subcommittee members.  One of the things that we spoke about to is  having a,  committee interest in extracurriculars. We talked about that in here. The balance of extracurricular sports  in all all venues for students within the community, and trying to get a feeder of that and input  from youth or starter or or or music lessons and things like that all the way through, so that we keep our kids  active and vibrant and engaged  throughout to  complement what they're doing in the classroom. So  that's all I have on that. So I didn't think it was that many words to tell you the truth.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions or comments to the superintendent. Moving on to our discussion items. First one is school board goals. And really I'm going to what I'm going to talk about briefly

[11510-58] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the relation to the grades. But I think they have a really great presentation and a look on how to how to report out that a lot of people are going to be happy with it. So without stealing any of that thunder. But I.
TEXT> Thank you for the. Presentation and just kind of, introduce why we're here. Doing this and where we've come from.  It was an enormous amount of work done in this district, and I think before many other schools, we were one of the leaders in competency based education and implementing that here in South Six.  And it was years of work,  and it's an ongoing process.  To refine it and to continue to make sure it's part of our DNA that we are looking at proficiency  and competency when we're grading our, our, our  students and assessing our students. What has not been,  Something that has worked extremely well over time has been the way in which we've reported out on that learning and on that assessment, what we have found.  And it's been something that I heard from pretty much day one  coming on board. I know Frank heard it. You know himself that it's the the language of competency can be sometimes daunting. The semantics can be sometimes foreign. When we talk to parents whose personal experience in school was on 100 point system and an A, B, C, D world, and now we're talking about learning targets and competencies and D's and SB it's, it's hard to, to grasp where their child is in comparison to other students and what those letters mean and what they're seeing in power school.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And so I want to just make sure that there's a clear understanding that we're not talking about abandoning competency based education, at all. We're talking about changing the way

[11510-80] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: grading a student on competency one and he gets an 85 or she gets an 85 on that assignment, okay, we're taking 50% of that. And then on the competency two assignments, we're taking 50% of that to come up to the overall course grade.
TEXT> Again, teachers are still reporting out on the competencies which we believe is important, but they're really not a portion of the student's grade, just the number. So the reason that we think this is important is think about world language. Pretend your child has an 80 or an 85 in world language. And the competencies are speaking, reading and writing. If your student has an 85 and you have a conversation with that teacher, you might be like, why can't my child get an egg? Why can't they get it? We can still have that deep dive conversation which says, well, here's the reason why we're reporting out on those things. We can say they're fine and writing they're fine and reading, but speaking we need to work on. We can improve in that area. We can probably get the child back up. Okay. We're allowing teachers and administrators to see to see an overall course grade much more easily because as  mentioned, right now, when they go into power school, they're seeing a whole bunch of check marks that the student either did something or didn't do something, and they had to start clicking all over the place to open up the standards to see assignment by assignment.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: It's the same complaint that we've had on the parent portal, right? A lot of parents complain about the parent portal, and it's like, I can't see anything. The standards

[11510-82] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: that goes away going back to just giving the student a numerical grade on an assignment. And hopefully if I can attach my phone to this, you'll see how that will pan out. So let me show you how this impacts the teacher very quickly.
TEXT> And while this. Was something I also want to interject while we're going back to numbers and letters, what we don't go back to is a world in which there is extra credit for the sake of getting the numbers up right. So I've got a 64, right? This is 20 years ago. I've got a 64. This is Barry. Give me some work so I can get more points so I can get my grade over to passing. We're not going to do that anymore. That's that's not how it works. That's why it's so important for us to keep these competencies still in there, because, well give you the work that you need to do to get that competency up. But there's no just random extra credit and stuff that you've already done and shown me you know, how to do just to rack up more points. As an English teacher, I would have  probably four competencies reading, writing, presentation, and mugs. Right?  Mechanics, usage and grammar. And so when I hand out an essay and I grade that essay, that essay might be worth 100 points. If it's something that I am going to ask for two drafts on, maybe I give it a 300 point weight.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But that assignment may live in three different competencies in the reading, in the writing, and in the the mugs competency. If my student shows that they've got an 85

[11510-94] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Which you couldn't do before.
TEXT> Which you couldn't do. But and I don't know if I like that. I kind of think, you know, that kids should be competent in every aspect on a certain level. And our and the way I was seeing is that we were waiting out the value of those competencies as well. But how do we assure that? I mean, I don't think a kid should ever pass a course without having a base competency in all aspects of the course.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And you bring up a very good point. And that's. Where the work of the teachers and administration in, in keeping close tabs on these grades so that we have

[11510-96] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: I give out, I'm going to have Johnny do writing, writing, writing. If he's passing all his other stuff, Johnny's going to write get written to death, right? In the rest of my semester, Sally is going to have reading comprehension work done with her.
TEXT> It's going to be able to laser point for the teacher and for the student and for the parent. Where do I have to spend my time? Where's the work that I have to do in this class to get that grade up to a 70 in all my competencies?  So it right now we just don't have that ability. Looking at the grades, the way they're currently input and to have that ability to to focus that way.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: One of the big challenges and Richard called us to he was I was at the podium and Richard was sitting here, that and Charlie remembers is that computers do

[11510-100] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: don't do the formative and then they just do the summative. And that's the only thing that was getting graded. And our definition in our school of a formative has become very broad, and it almost has been everything that isn't a summit of assessment.
TEXT> What we know is that when when I do a quiz, when I hand out a worksheet, or if I ask kids to do an exit ticket, those are all ways in which they're showing me that they've learned what I've taught them that day in class that can have a grade and it should have a grade. They're showing me they've learned or not learned what I've taught them. Right now, that's not the case. And often the only grades that are in there are, maybe, you know, once or twice a month. And that's all the kids are getting graded on. And it's like when you go to college and it's one grade a semester, and that's the whole enchilada, right? We need we need daily ways of the kids knowing how, where they stand. And so do parents. And so part of what's going to happen at Stephen's in concert with this is a change of process for how we assess students. And looking at grading all of those things that prior were deemed formative and shouldn't be graded, including homework. So when I say tonight's reading is two chapters of To Kill a mockingbird, there's going to be a quiz tomorrow on it.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Kids are going to care. They're going to know that they're going to get a grade on that pop quiz tomorrow, and there's going to be an incentive. So that's

[11510-104] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: graded on it. And look, I'm passing and having to try to explain that to a parent because a parent is saying, that's fluff. If you're not going to grade it, why are you giving it? You know, give my kids stuff that matters, right?
TEXT> We've seen to where parents of my kids working every night at the dining room table, they did this, they did this. I saw them hand this in. Well, that didn't count. That was all formative. What do you mean, it doesn't count? And then they bombed the summative. You know, maybe they had a bad day. Maybe they had a bad night. Maybe their test. You know, a  test. Stress. But so many ways in which our kids are showing us that they know what we've taught them aren't counting. And then we're putting it all into these kind of big chunks. So it both ends  were were difficult conversations that we've had to have with parents with the current system.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: So getting back to the assignment that the staff member puts in, again, let's pretend it's a chapter four test and let's pretend it's for competency. One, I might say

[11510-112] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Charlie Gessner: 4.0. Unless you're taking those honors classes, AP classes running start where you might have a five. Okay, very, very tight. But the minute we now open it up to nine potential passing grades, that 3 to 4, which is only a one point differential.
TEXT> Now it spans and it goes from 2 to 4. So now for the student that might have all 100 and ends up with an A plus is a 4.0 student. And for the student that's maybe right behind them but slightly behind them. And an A you're now at a 3.75. So you're going to have that accordion effect. It's going to spring out a little bit. Sports eligibility still works the same way because the child has to be passing classes to play. So whether we're issuing p pluses and piece is immaterial. Now it's if they just get A and B and c s. So nothing changes on the sports eligibility side really.  And if Pat wants to chime in, maybe sing a song, do an interlude, I'll see if I can get my phone up so that I can show you what the app would look like so that as a parent, if you're using it now, how that would potentially change. Let me see what I can do for you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Hear me say, Charlie.

[11510-115] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: I do have a question. Being the. Next year I have a senior and they've been on this other grade structure and we switched to this grade structure. How's that going to affect class rank.
TEXT> So it's going to be  level playing field because everyone's going to be playing by the same set of rules. So while it will, like Charlie said, expand GPA and broaden them out.  It, it won't affect some in a way that others aren't affected. So it'll be a transition, but it'll be the same transition for all students, if that makes any sense. Do you want. To add. To that?
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: Yeah, I mean, we went through the same thing, to be perfectly honest, when we went the other way. Right. Think about the students that had a 1.25 GPA when

[11510-116] Charlie Gessner | Guidance department chair, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: said, expand GPA and broaden them out. It, it won't affect some in a way that others aren't affected. So it'll be a transition, but it'll be the same transition for all students, if that makes any sense. Do you want. To add. To that?
TEXT> Yeah, I mean, we went through the same thing, to be perfectly honest, when we went the other way. Right. Think about the students that had a 1.25 GPA when we were given out. D is now they were being brought up to three. So it's a level playing field. Every single student that's in the same class, you know, if they're all taking the same course, everybody's going to based upon the new rules, everybody's going down based upon the new rules. So and I and I would argue if you were, you know, if you were if you want to call yourself a proficient with distinction student, which was a 4.0. Well, you know, are you going to call yourself now an A+ student because an A+ is going to be a 4.0 unless you're going to use again the new gradation to say, well, I'm only a minus and I'm a 3.5. So yeah, I mean, there's going to be an expansion.  And, you know, I would hope to get to your point that again, that would be an incentive for students to do stuff. I mean, we've talked about homework counting and, you know, counting it for ten, 15, 20 points. But I think at the end of the day, there's a lot of students.
NEXT> Charlie Gessner: And Prescott can he can back me up on this or he can I I appreciate his point of view. There are some students that will work to just get

[11510-131] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Yes, yes, yes.
TEXT> And and we don't want to throw the baby out with the bathwater. All the rubrics that teachers have labored on  and put years of work into, we're still going to use that, because those are extremely valuable to the students to know, you know, if I am doing all of these things in this column, that's that's passing proficient work. We don't want to get rid of that language. We don't want to get rid of that dictionary of terminology around proficiency competencies.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: They're right.

[11510-146] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: you're competing with peers, particularly in, collegiate admission, other types of things or I think Prescott's a great example of a course that in many ways isn't even close to the rigor or the thoroughness of expectation that you would have at a Stevens course.
TEXT> It looks on that transfer. Wow, a okay, I get that. And if if our kids are  not competing with  other folks for college admission, for other types of things, then that's an unintended certainly an unintended consequence. But but a significant one,  you know, nonetheless. So that that's why that's why we're here type of thing.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: So yeah, I think what we're doing though is we're missing what my question truly is if we adopt this policy, I think this is good. I like what I'm

[11510-148] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: we implement it all the way across the district? I know every class is different, but we need to make sure that the other schools are on board to do so. I'm trying to avoid us going through a middle school presentation, a bluff presentation.
TEXT> Know what what what the board, what you be voting on now is separating the grade reporting from the confidence of reporting. We're still not abandoning either one. We're just going back for more, more, more clarity with the grades for the benefit of the students. We're not getting rid of competencies if you don't learn. I mean, we don't want anyone to to know. So tonight they walk away thinking.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So tonight the vote is across the board, right. So if they vote, if A's to vote yes we approve this the separation. We don't have to come back next

[11510-170] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: that he's extremely hungry, just broke up with his girlfriend, whatever it is. So that's where the question comes in. What happened here? That's the conversation. What happened on this test? This is not what I've been seeing with you in class all semester long.
TEXT> Where did you. Did you. Well, I didn't sleep last night. Whatever it is. Right. That's why we want to continue to have a retake option for students. It's finite. It's not never ending. It's a two week. That's our policy right now. Two week retake option where you have to enter into a contract with that teacher. I want to retake this. This is what I'm going to do differently. Let's work on flex for the next week to prepare you for that retake. And then let's see how you do after that. That grade sticks and that's it.  You're right. In the real world or in college, you don't get a second chance.  But what we're trying to do is, is make sure our kids are getting the content, understanding it, and not penalizing them for  one assessment because it might have had might have had a lot of other mitigating reasons behind it. So,  and the other piece, the second point that you made, Heather, was which the second point was about the competency.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah. Being able to fail a competency and pass the course.

[11510-194] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-05-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: to your limit. But class rank, it should be weighted. And because that demonstrates for higher institution institutions of higher learning where you really are because, you know, a kid could be number one in the class and really not have taken extremely challenging courses.
TEXT> I just want to push back on that. Back in my guidance days, I had a student and it was Wheelock College, and they had a matrix, and there was a at one end was a 1600 SAT score in the old days, two, eight hundreds and then a 400. No, I'm sorry, it was class rank whatever it was. So I asked them if they, it was a forum and I asked them if they waited grades, if they waited them and they said no, we assume the high school is waiting for them. So at that time in Newport, I was working at Newport. We were not waiting grades and but Stevens was. So a student could have be taking AP English here in Claremont and get a five. And the Newport kid would take the same horse and get a four. And yet on this Wheelock matrix would be at a clear disadvantage, not just for admission, but for guaranteed financial aid. And and so that was that's a that's a true story.  And it was a it was we we locked college. I remember calling them about that because I was, I was in fact, I went to the Newport School board with, with the argument with that example about waiting grades and said, we are putting our kids at a gross disadvantage to other kids, specifically Stevens at that time  they're not. And again, not just admission but financial aid.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So Hanover and Bo do not wait grades. And they're super, super competitive schools and they don't wait them because the way I understood and you probably have much more

[11510-204] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: my child sits at home for hours and works on homework or, you know, Steve's whoever child sits at home working on the homework and for them to show up and have that not count is very, that's not the way the real world works.
TEXT> Your boss gives you assignment of work. You better get it done by the due date, or else you know you're gonna something that'll be repercussions.  So I think this kind of. If the if the kid chooses not to do the homework, then they're going to get a negative consequences if they do the homework.  Then you actually, you know, maybe do bad on the, you know, not quite as good on the test, but that homework helps kind of level the playing field. So I, I think this in some of the frustration for those kids that are doing what's assigned.  So I, I, I like the idea of the system.
NEXT> Unidentified: Something you want to make a motion?

[11510-229] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: but fun component to them within a 30 mile radius. And we'll set goals with students on Monday that, you know, these are the goals that you are identifying. You want to meet this week. Then you are eligible for the field trip on Friday.
TEXT> So we're really excited about that.  And we're hoping to do maybe some kind of outdoor classroom or community service component for the students who maybe don't necessarily want to take a field trip or go on a bus, but want to do something around town to start working on their community service hours. We're very excited about having prom. Prom is going to be down at the visitor center under a tent.  It'll look a lot. Sort of like a wedding reception with tables and linens and things like that.  We're going to have the promenade start at. Well, students will get together and be ready for the promenade at 515.  They'll come over the bridge around 530 from the Main Street side of town. They'll walk over the bridge. We have,  one of our teachers, Mr. Fortier. He's an art teacher. Does our digital photography, has his own photography business. He'll take the pictures and we have Josh Nelson of CCTV will stream the promenade live as they come over the bridge.  We have police detail. We have plenty of chaperons who will,  kind of be at the different entrances to ensure that only students who have tickets and it's only juniors or seniors this year who can buy a ticket, they may invite an underclassmen as their date, but no  non Stevens High School students will be admitted.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: Masks will be worn. We'll have teachers who will be serving food. So it won't be, you know, there won't be that issue. We will maintain social distancing. You know,

[11510-230] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: of be at the different entrances to ensure that only students who have tickets and it's only juniors or seniors this year who can buy a ticket, they may invite an underclassmen as their date, but no non Stevens High School students will be admitted.
TEXT> Masks will be worn. We'll have teachers who will be serving food. So it won't be, you know, there won't be that issue.  We will maintain social distancing. You know, obviously the masks must stay on throughout the evening. It'll go officially from 6 to 10. And, that's prom. We're very, very excited. We have a DJ. The DJ was DJ we're supposed to have last year and who we had paid. And thankfully he's still available this year, so don't have to lay out any money there.  And very excited about prom. We, as  Mike  alluded to, we at 5:00 today went over to Monarch Farms off Jarvis Hill Road. We took a look at that site for graduation.  And we're very excited about that  because we wanted we know the kids can't have a senior class trip this year. We know that, you know, there's still a lot of components to their end of senior year that don't happen for them. And the biggest money lay out from the class is usually their class trip. And that just not going to happen.  So but we wanted them to have a breakfast this year.  It's an important time when we give out the stoles and the medallions, and we dedicate the yearbook and we talk about we announce the top ten, we show the class video, all of that.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And when we started to think about the logistics of, you know, having graduation maybe here, but then where do we do breakfast and how do we socially distance for

[11510-232] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: be sitting at. And then we will have families clustered. So we'll have either a family we'll have a row, or a family will have their four seats or whatever here. And it'll be identified that when that family comes in, that's where they set.
TEXT> So that there's no, no way that there's not going to be social distancing. And, yeah, we're very excited. We're going to talk to, I believe, Decker Rentals, which is who they work with. We'll have him come out. We'll do a layout, kind of a grid. Then, you know, where will we enter? Where will the seniors sit? Where will the parents sit, that kind of thing. They have we'll get porta potties. It's where we can do the senior breakfast. They have a little kitchen. It used to be an ice cream stand.  So we can operate out of there for, like, a continental breakfast for the kids on Tuesday morning. Then we'll do the first rehearsal right there. That that day, right after the breakfast. It'll probably be like picnic style. They have goats.  And  there's the electricity is right there for the building. So we'll be all set for a PA system. We'll work again with Sam  Scott Hagar, who  works with Sound Works, and he'll help us with  our PA system and making sure that everybody can be heard.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And then we'll have a second rehearsal on Wednesday and then graduation at 6:00 on Thursday night. And we're working with the elementary schools to see if there's a safe,

[11510-233] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: the electricity is right there for the building. So we'll be all set for a PA system. We'll work again with Sam Scott Hagar, who works with Sound Works, and he'll help us with our PA system and making sure that everybody can be heard.
TEXT> And then we'll have a second rehearsal on Wednesday and then graduation at 6:00 on Thursday night.  And we're working with the elementary schools to see if there's a safe, socially distanced way we can still do the walk through  outside, and maybe the kids will be outside in the playground, and we can after our breakfast and after we rehearse, we'll get over there  and visit with their teachers and the littles  at each of the schools in the middle school like we used to be able to do, but we'll just do it outside because that was a  grand event for everybody involved.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: That was the thing that I wanted to ask about most, because I know a lot of people wanted to do the elementary walk, so that's good to know that

[11510-237] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: student, you know, should have done it without the little handle at the end, essentially. And then my next question that kind of piggybacks off why we're kind of doing it is, what's the cost per week for these field trips for several different classes.
TEXT> Most of them are  cost free. I had David Silva do the research on the area of places that had little to no, fees or entrance fees for us to go to.  We the stipend for the summer teachers was based on X number of hours, and we've always had summer school only four days a week and four hours a day. So we're not changing that parameter at all.  But we did feel that kids have been so cloistered and so removed from everything for a year and a half, that we felt it was a good incentive. To your point, though, you know, a student who fails an honors level class when they recover it over the summer, they'll get there. That class credit at a 4.0, but not at a 5.0. So there is a there is a  a bit of a  pain point there  because they didn't get it done in the semester that they were supposed to get it done. And so we don't feel that they should have that weighted grade if it was indeed an honors course. So there's there's one way that there is a specific consequence, but we feel that the field trips are a good incentive.  And a lot of times kids are done in a week or two. You know, because it's just a learning target. Or was one assessment that they, they, they missed. So a lot of these kids, they're there, they're out and gone.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But it would be nice if they, you know, still wanted to go up, you know, to, you know, gorge or go up to the, King Arthur thing and, you

[11510-239] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: and, you know, maybe bake bread for a day with a group of other kids. And we just think that they've had nothing for a year and a half. This is a way, a cheap, kind of easy way for us to give them something.
TEXT> Think that,  I understand the principal and the fact that people have been cooped up.  But as far as the weighted grade, is that the same for the student that wasn't in an AP or.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: I mean.

[11510-247] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School | 2021-05-05
PREV> Steven Horsky: my mind that's not fair at all because while the AP student is trying to do something harder, they're going to get dinged because they didn't meet that target. But the average Joe student who also did not complete their work is not getting dinged.
TEXT> Well, I mean, they're getting ding because they have to be on the second floor of Stevens High School, maybe for six weeks in the summer instead of out, you know, working a job. It are so many of our students, Steve, have struggled because their incentive was being in a classroom with a live teacher who noticed them and got them going, and being at home in front of a screen in their basement or at their dining room, and maybe with three siblings running around and mom and dad, you know it. It's been a struggle for them to focus, to get the motivation to care.  A lot of our students are, are  are deeply depressed. They're they're they're depressed from not having the socialization that they've needed their friends, the the things that, you know, give all of us joy. And that, first and foremost has been reflected in them ghosting us academically, many of them. And we need to get them back in the classroom. We need them to where we can have them eyeball to eyeball and be what we do best as educators are the motivators for these kids.  And so I think it's not fair, especially in the middle or post near post Covid for us to give any more dings to kids who have failed because so much of this has been out of their control.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I think we just have to figure out how to get them over the over the finish line.

[11510-261] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (uncertain outside segments 36-50 - cl | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Right. Which don't have the opportunity to take this out.
TEXT> So if they took the test and passed it then they would get a five a five, right. But you only can get the test once in May. The kids that fail it can't do that testing may because it's gone. So all they can get is a four.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: I just want that's the clarification I.

[11510-297] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: So yeah.
TEXT> I, I also want to comment on we, we  as Pat said, we we looked at the Monarch Farm layout today and it really hit all those elements. And I do I think the containment of it, the kind of class of it and  and the ample parking right there because I didn't really have a bead on that. It's, it's it's a really beautiful, kind of elegant way to send off. Well, well deserved by the kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: So, so one of the main pitchers you find is your, your.

[11510-335] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Back right off that.
TEXT> We have a duty to the taxpayer and the students of Claremont, not what school is where what neighborhood is where. We have complaints from our constituents about taxes. We have and I just heard saving money doing this. Then I heard number two complaints about how our kids are doing. Right.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. So no doubt.

[11510-384] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-05-05
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely.
TEXT> It is. I mean, look at major manufacturing companies like GM, anything with a long chassis is getting built at the same plant. They're not going to build you a Chevy Malibu at that line that's going to get built over here. So essentially really we've talked about, you know, kind of looking at the district as more of a business and our end result, our profits are these children. So I think the simple answer is what we've been discussing to start getting that ball rolling. Because at the end of the day, it's easier to duplicate our results and hold accountabilities where they need to be and give direction and see where the the missing links are if it's all housed together.
NEXT> Unidentified: All right. I just took us down further. Rabbit hole.

[11527-51] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other second. Set further discussion on the minutes. Okay. Here we go. We haven't done this in a while. All those in favor of approving the minutes of March 17th, 2021 signify by saying aye. Aye aye. Opposed? Perfect. Student representative report.
TEXT> Valley Regional Technical Center five programs will be offered this summer to middle school students. Registration will be shared next week. The options are culinary, computers and business. Explore your future career searching, building with wood, robotics and engineering. And then on April 19th, the Tech Center will host eighth graders from Claremont and Unity to showcase our programs and give some hands on experiences. Students from our current programs will be tour guides and then, in cooperation with the Sullivan County Jail, the two week inmate program will take place again this summer, and National Technical Honor Society students have been identified and contacted, and an award ceremony will take place later to semester at Stevens. Quarter three will be ending this Friday, April 9th. Students should have all assignments completed and submitted by the end of the day on the ninth.  A big congratulations to Gabby Szabo for being named the 2021 New Hampshire Youth and Government Editor in Chief. And then seniors should be checking their emails regularly for updates on senior activities and updates on the local scholarship packet. That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 28th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair. The link is inside of the report given and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited

[11527-52] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-15
PREV> Prescott Herzog: That packet is due by the end of the school day on the 28th of April, and is worth more than $100,000, and make sure for the seniors to submit their application to be considered for this extremely generous contribution at the Claremont Middle School.
TEXT> The middle school will be hosting its first ever virtual book fair.  The link is inside of the report given and will be accessible online at Disney. They're super excited to welcome even more Disney friends back to in-person learning on April 12th. Students who are returning to in-person learning should bring all of their school supplies back with them. We look forward to connect continue to connect online for those who are remaining remote. And then I congratulate to last week's winning classes for School Spirit. Miss Clinton clinics, kindergarten and Miss Sergeant second graders. And then at Maple Avenue  on April 12th, Maple Ave will be the school with the highest percentage of in-person learners to accommodate all of those returning to in-person learning. We will welcome back all of our current remote teachers and the students who have chosen to return. All remote students who are returning will have the classroom teachers that they have been working with remotely. And then the PTO would like to announce that they are having a spirit workshop sponsored by Ink Factory, and it is up and running. Please check  the link. It's not in this document, but  it's on the Maple Avenue  newsletter  to get tees, hoodies and vest for youth and adult sizes and then attach it to the bottom is the flier for the sixth summer program upcoming this summer.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for the student left for comments to make a quick comment. Something that, for the benefit of the graduating class, is that the alumni association has updated their web

[11527-53] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-04-15
PREV> Prescott Herzog: Please check the link. It's not in this document, but it's on the Maple Avenue newsletter to get tees, hoodies and vest for youth and adult sizes and then attach it to the bottom is the flier for the sixth summer program upcoming this summer.
TEXT> Questions for the student left for comments to make  a quick comment. Something that,  for the benefit of the graduating class, is that the alumni association has  updated their web page. They have,  now,  are accepting PayPal. So if you go in and look at their scholarships, you can actually toggle down the ones that the scholarships that you would like to donate to. You can select an amount and then you don't have to write a check. You just simply go down and select PayPal. And you can make a contribution of any size that you'd like to, any scholarship that you'd like.  Right on their updated web page. So I would encourage  people who aren't even Stephen's graduates to go in and take a look. And donate some money to our deserving seniors to help them with their college plans. So I know that's up and running.
NEXT> Unidentified: All right. Superintendents report. Sure. That's, I'd like. I know that was just.

[11527-89] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Heather Whitney: So there's kind of like a rubric or an or something that.
TEXT> So what? It's, So what we have is we have general guidance of how we can use it for the in literally there's the three bullets that are in, in your, in the, in the packet that you can use, use it for  for for gaps. You can use it for a, a  few things. What has  come around. And this this happens sometimes when things happen. I think the change of all of this  of this year in basically money's coming in. It's being allocated in their, their, the guidelines. And  things are changing as fast as they're putting the money out there. So I don't know how to say it any more clearly than that, but,  so for example, so we have also heard talk that there would be for the first allocation of, of,  of cares to that there would be a certain percentage that you can use of up to 25% for immediate impact to, to remediate,  deficits from student learning. Again, that general  language, you're looking at 400,000. You know, more than enough for what we're planning. We're planning is generally and conservatively as we can, but we're also aggressively hiring in booking camps and doing all these things. We started this camp that is going to be preregistration all this a month ago, knowing this was coming five weeks ago, like it was more than a month ago.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And and now we'll be signing people out, working with the community center to do that as soon as possible. So in the, you know, to look at it in

[11527-101] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Mike.
TEXT> Oh,  I had a just a comment or question, I guess. To me, it's great to see, you know, I'm taking my son up at the park and seeing all the kids out there practicing and,  back to sports.  And I know people are working hard. I still see that maybe lagging behind, and I'm not sure why. Maybe they need a push. Maybe there's just there's not the voice that sports has for some of the other the smaller groups, the smaller after school groups, the smaller drama groups, the course, the,  band, things like that just seem to be to me. And maybe it's just my opinion still lagging behind.  I mean, I think we're at the point where we're really from the top down from administration to principals really need to be asking the question of why, if we're not seeing a return to these after school programs, they're not picking up again, the, you know,  choirs, band drama, are they looking to do performances? And if if we're not looking at something, the question from the top should be, why not? Why are we not looking to adapt these? Because I think those are the, you know, those kids need a voice to and they they're not one big collaborative group. I, I hate to keep saying sports with sports is a is a bigger loud group.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: They have the force behind them. Our drama and arts and, smaller after school programs don't have that voice. So I'd like to see the voice coming from us from

[11527-108] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-15
PREV> Donna Magoon: I mean, because it's the size of them and there's just not a room enough for social distancing. And so at the time things are going on, there may be a space.
TEXT> Use, I think if they're still meeting, in my opinion, if they're still meeting virtually still why there should be space. It's nice whether there's plenty of space outdoors.  Drama programs should be, in my opinion, thinking about planning a I mean, maybe it's too late for this year, but planning some sort of performance could be performed outside, but not be the best sound quality if you know. But these kids deserve to have to be up on stage. Whether it's drama, choir, band in front of the people,  with the appropriate measures taken, I just. Yeah, we I hope we're going that direction. I just don't see it yet. So we.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have had that discussion about having those things. And I will follow up about about where those are, where they are in terms of performances. But we talked about

[11527-115] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board (uncertain - not  | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Guess what might have..
TEXT> So I was just going to say like,  so like most of my, my clubs that I'm doing online  are  online and meeting and I think that it's just because like disproportionately the members  and specifically leadership in a lot of these clubs are remote students. And so in order for there to still be like the that access and for them to participate in like actually be in, commit to their leadership positions. The meetings still need to be online.  I know at the beginning when there was more people who were online, National Honor Society was trying to meet inside of the, the, the auditorium. And it was just like there was like echoing. And it's like it's really complicated to try and be doing both the like, the in-person and the remote. So like with youth and government, we just meet Wednesdays after school  on a Google classroom, and that kind of works best just to make sure that everybody can join if they want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. Mr.. Patrons concern, though, is that, that there are groups out there that that want to assemble as physically as groups and, and are being denied that. I

[11527-129] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: The questions.
TEXT> I just have one concern about the marketing of the summer program or,  not only the marketing, but targeting it to specific students are our students that are in high risk or high need. Are people reaching out to their families to really encourage them? Are we able to identify which students are at higher risk for the greatest disparity.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And yeah. So so. We. We two things. One one we we know those students and we we are. We're.

[11527-153] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Moving to the Russ Grant of 451,000 832. Mike, can you talk again just very quickly?
TEXT> As sure. So so,  we we were recipients of this grant. We partnered with,  Fall Mountain and in Newport. Now we get used to it. So,  we've partnered with Fall Mountain,  Newport,  and our tech directors  and  superintendents, and we,  hired a third party.  Outfit out of new Jersey to to write this grant. We we did find out we were the only recipient in New Hampshire of this federal money. 451,000 is what we are going to get in our share. It's $1 million grant because of our size. We had more  need and things like that. And Jeff put together a some great stuff primarily. Most of ours is it's going to go towards stuff. So we have forget the exact count. Jeff I think is 100 140. State of the art smart board. I pads like 65. Amazing.  Each classroom is outfitted in the district. It has a camera  capacity and follows  the teacher. It can be used for distance learning. It can be used by the kids to present. And it's just it's just wonderful stuff.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And that's what it is. It is for exactly that, for stuff to bridge the gap, the spirit of the grant to. And we've all we've only had a couple

[11527-226] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the issue for middle school teams and other things creep up where we've let people come in. I think we just iron that out, how how we're going to do it so that we start next year, clean, whether it's a nominal fee or whatever.
TEXT> We don't want to detract to the degree to which we promote people to come to,  to Claremont and eventually play for Stevens, that's one avenue. But we also want to make sure that it's,  you know, it's not an infringement or displacement for taxpayers in what they pay for services, including athletics, for their kids. So there's a little bit of substance to that that we can that we can  kind of hash out. A lot of the things,  we can look at some of the data we had had people start pulling the data.  And a lot of that's in process. We looked at the historical values where we were particularly at the high school and some of those other things, but they don't know yet because it's second midway through.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Are we talking about levels? H is that what.

[11527-259] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-04-15
PREV> Unidentified: Retreat. I mean that'll.
TEXT> Be in there for that. That is a goal. So one of the goals that we have for that is,  time on learning, which it's, it's in that goal.  It's, it's exactly how we're using the resources we have for the grade level, for interventions and for student achievement. So one and that's, that's what started that, that whole thing that we thought we could do it better. We could have fewer kids in the class in, in and look at it closely and have more concentrated interventions, particularly for literacy. K-2 that was our target right away. And then go three five different kind of developmental band. And that's that's where that, that's that's the discussion we had seemed like it was three years ago, but.
NEXT> Unidentified: It was last year. That's that's going to wind up being,

[11649-11] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: right in front of Prescott. If you could kind of grab that. For those of you who who don't know, our our bowling team was, really against the odds. I think this year, my early conversations with Sean indicated that it was a rebuilding year.
TEXT> But yeah, it was. Definitely a adventure year. Adventurous year. Being with Covid and being in a in a bubble kind of ourselves where it's asking and Hillsborough. Darren for the year. It was tough on the kids because usually we travel,  Merrimack,  we travel around different places and it's just hard for the kids because they get they see more competition. We were kind of stuck in a bubble with Keene, which beat us a ton. We I, we bowled them 12 games before the finals and they beat us 11 of them. So when we ended up going up against them to qualify for the states, it was Hillsborough, Darren against them. And then the winner got us and we ended up meeting him two straight right off. And it was a surprise to everybody, mostly me. So it was it was it was good. But the kids kids did really well.  Next year it'll be a little bit of a a little different. I'm going to have all seniors for the whole team. I lost two seats. I'm going to lose two seniors this year, Bryce Weymouth and Clayton Wadsworth. With the two good. I'm I'm losing this year, which were really, really strong for the team.
NEXT> Sean: So I'm hoping the 8 or 9 seniors that I have for next year that are all juniors that are going to come up and do really well, but like

[11649-12] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Sean: different. I'm going to have all seniors for the whole team. I lost two seats. I'm going to lose two seniors this year, Bryce Weymouth and Clayton Wadsworth. With the two good. I'm I'm losing this year, which were really, really strong for the team.
TEXT> So I'm hoping the 8 or 9 seniors that I have for next year that are all juniors that are going to come up and do really well, but like I said, it's got to be an easier year than what this past one was with with Covid and not traveling anywhere and being stuck against one of the best teams in the state every week was it was kind of tough for the kids because they were like, oh, we got to blow them again. Oh, we got to do it again. I'm like, we're fine. Just get better, just improve. Every week was the big thing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So do you want to invite the kiddos up? So I got introduced.

[11649-32] Sean | Stevens High School bowling coach (first name only on the record) | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, you know, they've got a wonderful mentor and, and we've got the facility right here in town. So it's, it's just fantastic. So yeah, it's.
TEXT> Really definitely a big shout out to Maple Lanes. He does. He does a lot for us.  He helps all the kids he finds used bowling ball so the kids can use those,  where we had all the kids by their own balls. They buy their own shoes. So it's it's something where we do what we can to do that, and then we we do some fundraising off and on for certain things. We ordered rings. They should be in the first week of July for all the kids. And then we had a  gentleman in Claremont that's a supporter of the of the bowling for years and years. And he bought us jackets again this year. So he's done that twice. So it's been it's been nice. It's been good to have the support from the community also, which is nice.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well congratulations.

[11649-64] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: willing to go above and beyond in order to help me further understand a concept, or make sure that I was able to truly do my best work. However, I would be remiss if I didn't mention some of the improvements that could be made.
TEXT> The same faculty that encouraged me to shoot for the stars and served as a support system throughout high school is rapidly dwindling, either from retirement or to go to other schools in the surrounding area.  And in order to ensure a brighter future for our students graduates, it's vital that the board and the administration dedicate time and energy in order to try and retain teachers who can grow into the holes that are left. And I also think that it's really important to try  and  stop the increasingly dwindling opportunities for advanced classes at the high school.  While it's important to take some  well, you can take some classes with relax.  A trend has continued throughout my high school experience, where dozens of classes that were available when I entered the building aren't  offered anymore, leaving students with intentions of going to college being disadvantages, heading to classrooms to be on Stevens,  and if we want our graduates to compete at an academic level  similar to the community surrounding us, it requires further investment into expanding classes.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: For those like my sister in the eighth grade and then as I finish, I just wanted to give one last thank you to all of the board members and

[11649-65] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School senior (surna | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: aren't offered anymore, leaving students with intentions of going to college being disadvantages, heading to classrooms to be on Stevens, and if we want our graduates to compete at an academic level similar to the community surrounding us, it requires further investment into expanding classes.
TEXT> For those like my sister in the eighth grade and then as I finish, I just wanted to give one last thank you to all of the board members and the administration for your time and support over the past years. It was really a truly an honor to serve as a voice on the board for the students over the past year, and I really hope that this tradition of providing students that seat at the table continues long after I'm gone from the chair, but this will definitely not be the last time you'll hear from me.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I was going to ask you, Prescott, how you liked working with us and your question.

[11649-71] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: Great job. Prescott.
TEXT> Any any other questions or comments for for our student rep in his last meeting?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No, just to thank you for your thoughtful comments. When you did contribute, they were thoughtful and poignant. And they really they helped helped us make decisions about things.

[11649-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Wish I had a goodbye gift. For you. Thank you. Prescott. Okay. Moving on. Superintendents report.
TEXT> All right, so  I have, Item in the superintendent report I'm going to  go through and, as well and, and also kind of the recurring themes.  For the strategic plan that, that we have, we're going to structure all of the presentations and updates going forward for the next  step in right, for the next five years, hopefully for for where we're where we're going, how we're going, and, and talk about those, those updates. And also to get back to some of the specific points the board brought up,  you know, to speak about what the schedule and some other things where we're going to have focus groups in the summer and things like that. So we'll be going to go through  the focus strategies again. If you go to the next slide. Mr. small, please. All right. So basically we have we have six major components for the strategic plan. And  all of them  are  focused around  student achievement.  Couldn't have put it better. And it was great hearing it right from  Prescott earlier about looking at what we're offering, how we're offering it, and making sure we're putting our kids at the at the best advantage.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So, teaching and learning that saw and focusing on student achievement, what they're doing, how they're doing it and constantly improving that as we have always done. But to but

[11649-78] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of them are focused around student achievement. Couldn't have put it better. And it was great hearing it right from Prescott earlier about looking at what we're offering, how we're offering it, and making sure we're putting our kids at the at the best advantage.
TEXT> So,  teaching and learning that saw and focusing on student achievement, what they're doing, how they're doing it and constantly improving that as we have always done. But to but to keep that  high up on the mantle,  increasing  time on learning, student  time on learning. And that's going to take a few more  many forms. And I'll go through the bullets of those. And I couldn't agree more. Recruiting and retaining the best and the brightest staff possible.  I can't take our team can't take complete credit for that. They were doing that before we got here. But this year.  We've had a lot of success in a very challenging hiring year earlier than possible, kind of looking what we had for anticipated retirements needs and just frankly, getting on it before everyone. So,  in the principles of an amazing job with that, without reaching, we're going to continue that,  school safety.  Student emotional learning, student welfare, and basically the general return to normalcy, which we will  maybe visit as the board adjusted the, you know, and and do something with the mass tonight. And we'll talk about that as well for tomorrow with the latest on that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Looking at maximizing our opportunities for in district education, for special ed programs and building those as we have, so that it's equitable education in the community and cost effective

[11649-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: emotional learning, student welfare, and basically the general return to normalcy, which we will maybe visit as the board adjusted the, you know, and and do something with the mass tonight. And we'll talk about that as well for tomorrow with the latest on that.
TEXT> Looking at maximizing our opportunities for in district  education, for special ed programs and building those as we have,  so that  it's  equitable education in the community and cost effective and revamping the the governance structure of this of the  school in the school district. And basically that's designed to have more feedback loops with parents serving on school boards, on advisory councils, and so that we have more communication and feedback loops in a regular basis. All right. So  next one I'll just I'll bullet through these. I don't want to we have a  vicious  agenda. But I'll talk about these and then we'll return in the action items with the other follow up. So with where we're going to go to be more focused on it. But when we talk about the student achievement,  we're looking at the how many kids are in a class, what classes are offered. The linkage between the classes all the way k k, 12  transitions between those  blended learning opportunities for both students and staff, and actually measuring the student achievement and outcomes with our internal  measures that we have, and then also having other opportunities to do that so that we're looking at the individual student growth,  the kid themselves and how they progress, but also how cohorts are achieving compared to other cohorts in years.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Where are our graduates going? How are they becoming in in the area? How where are they going post education and the like? And also where we are for a

[11649-82] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a block schedule two I want to give both sides, but particularly you can have math. You can have a year off from math and then a concrete sequential kind of building block layered. You know, subject like that. It can be tough. To go.
TEXT> Over a year to before your in geometry  from algebra one or algebra to whichever progression you're in. All right.  Quality and differentiation of different learning environments in the face to face.  Looking for more  internship opportunities.  We have some great ones. We have some really creative elbows that Prescott mentioned.  Other types of experiential learning.  Blended environments.  In the like,  we have already done a,  I think a fantastic job and a fantastic start that that's  a pretty groundbreaking with,  Donna kind of leading her team. We talked about how we might have professional development cause of that  throughout the year, every other year, having building competencies, but having a predictable nature of that for staff. That's obviously aligned with all the other threads in this as well.  I  just outstanding work that we want to highlight a little tonight.  Teacher  in ongoing PD with student outcomes. And also that we'll talk about,  and  here's here's your alphabet soup for tonight. Right. So you have the a are the American  the recovery  general acronym for the CARES money. Then you have cares. Then you have success or a second elementary and secondary ed recovery. So that that that's your your alphabet soup quiz.  But basically what that is and we were  and I didn't even look at it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We haven't had time to tell you the truth, but we but we have all in. Claremont has almost $10.6 million from the beginning of Covid to the end of

[11649-90] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: 114.
TEXT> Yeah. 145.  So and a lot, a lot of work went into that and it's it's great. We, we we know historically that our numbers have decreased. Our student population has decreased.  We can we can take all of that on in more without any impact. Even unity can. So to.
NEXT> Unidentified: Staff it in my head and I better ask before I forget it. Sure. So what do you think it from? From Goshen. Who gets the state aid for. That

[11649-97] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We can serve both purposes, just generally by getting more students outside, you have more people outside. It's active. It's part of our curriculum anyway. And and we can also use some of our money to address some of the, the sorely needed updates around.
TEXT> So I'll show you another  perspective. These are outdoor  art and weaving centers and things like that that are in the slides.  This was just I thought it was a very well  put together presentation of where they wanted to go. And if you notice in there to teachers being teachers, what we always resourceful, always trying to get they already one of the slides says they want to cooperate with the tech center as well, and maybe have the kids help build some of the stuff to defray costs. So that that's just an example, and I thought it was a good one. There are plenty others that people are doing with our summer program, with camps, with theater  and things like that, but I wanted to highlight this one from Heather.  Next slide please. We also, I kind of,  lack of a better term, crashed a meeting with the elementary principals when they were meeting with the playground rep when, when and  active play  station rep to go over what,  we could have  athletically and in  in  play areas for gym classes, outside climbing towers and the like.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This is what he sent us. He also we also told him to give us some renditions, particularly for the elementary and middle, as well as the high school, which

[11649-108] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: and they don't have any kind of a process at that point to say, no, this isn't acceptable. So then you spend the money and then you send in the reimbursement request and they say, oh, I'm sorry, that didn't meet the the exact criteria.
TEXT> They have a person at Doe, Kate Murphy is her name there. And she's responsible for all of the Esser sort of coordinating the Esser questions. Okay. There are a number of FAQs that are put out on exactly this. We're thinking of doing this and then they share the information. So what's best for us is if we believe there's any ambiguity, any concern of reimbursement, take it to her first, get an approval on that. And we do the same on something of this kind of size, the standard stuff of equipment and,   you know, cleaning supplies and deaths that that's pretty well, that's a worn path.  As we head into any of the other areas, it I'll be certainly asking her before I say, okay, let's go ahead and actually do it right.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you. Yep.

[11649-123] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Richard Seaman: way you can educate a child on $3,600. And that's not just related to poverty. Demographics. Special education or anything else. There's no way you can have that kind of disparity. There's not a school district in New England that's anywhere near $4,000 per student.
TEXT> But that ongoing discussion, ongoing debate is the Claremont cases from before. It's the current case going on, and it's just trying to bring and to meet the needs. The constitutional needs of every child is guaranteed a free and, quote, adequate unquote education. How do you define that term adequacy. Challenging on its most clear day and just wicked when you really start to dig down through the calculations.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I think Hanover spends 27,000 per student.

[11649-129] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have an option of taking things that are in the strategic plan, whether it be sell core curriculum, work in their subject areas. Letters, skillful teacher or the like. But I will I could I can go through outdoor classroom, whatever whatever you want to.
TEXT> Jump in. So what we decided to do is it's something that it's new to most districts. Right. And and Joshua, we really like this idea, right?  We looked at our staff and talked to our staff about professional development, and we talked about, you know, how you go to one professional development at the beginning of the year and you get all this information in your head, and then you go to your classroom and the next professional day comes up and you go to this one, it's a different topic. And so now you've got all this other stuff that goes away, and you got all this new topic that goes into your head, right. And so what we decided to do is take a different approach. We've come up with tracks that align with our strategic plan, which aligns with our needs of our students in  our  building. So the staff, what they got to do is pick a track.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So if they pick whatever track they pick their on to the entire year. So what happens? I'll give you an example like this. The very first one, track one

[11649-146] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: with the money. So, it's it's really exciting and we're fired up, but we're, we're also, you know, it's a whole other like we will have no summer. So it it's okay, but we're, but we're just trying to try to keep the momentum going.
TEXT> So one of the things that was really exciting about our, about the summer program is that I, you know, I sit with other assistant superintendents and superintendents at meetings and we talk about our summer program, and they're they're saying, oh, we need, you know, no one teachers have just burnt out. We're not getting any teachers. Nobody's applying. And we're looking at ours. And we have an abundance amount of teachers that are applying. So our teachers are seeing it in there saying, this is going to be great. You know, this is going to be fun. And there's our teachers are all doing it. We don't have any problems with with,  having shortage of teachers for the summer program. So we're pretty excited about that. Our teachers are amazing. And, you know, they've been through a couple of years of, of,  some stressful time, but they're still willing to to do it during the summer to help our students.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: That's all I have in the full report. And just couch that with the guideline for when we get to the other other ones in the action.

[11649-238] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: that stuff, reports have to be true, complete and accurate, and the disbursements are being made for the purpose of their awarded for. So what happens in in title. And I think Frank, this kind of alludes to one of the questions that you asked.
TEXT> So I have to come up with a proposal. So if I want to purchase Chromebooks, I have to write up why I'm using them. What's the purpose of them? What are the children going to get from them? What are the benefits from them? What is the growth I'm going to see? What are the kids going to learn from them. And then I submit that and then it either gets approved or denied. Or they may say you need to change a few things. So if if I say I'm going to buy computers and it comes back approved, I can't all of a sudden say, oh no, I'm not going to buy computers. Instead, I'm just going to take that money and buy something else. So we have to make sure that we're following those rules. We consult with teachers, parents and others.  We, you know, we have curriculum meetings to talk about our curriculum and stuff such as that. So before we purchase any type of items, some of them are policies. So like we need to comply with the Gun Free School Act of 1994, comply with the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: We need to make sure we're keeping accurate records. We're keeping up with our policies and procedures that have to do with purchasing of items, which was a new policy

[11649-241] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: being used before it expires. So I can't when I was looking at doing my PD tracks, I could not say, well, I'm going to use this money for PD in October, so I need to make sure it's being used within that time frame.
TEXT> And that's one of the requirements they have. And then one of the most important ones that  and I and  I know you heard Richard say something a little bit about it, but in short equal access to education by assuring equal opportunity for all students. So we need to make sure that we're following those policies.  And so does anyone have any questions. And again, these are the guidelines, some of the guidelines that we have to report on as far as the state for federal funds.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so let's say. That, you show, you promised that there's going to be some growth. And you say our kids will improve reading levels an average of 1.5 grades,

[11649-242] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-06-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: for all students. So we need to make sure that we're following those policies. And so does anyone have any questions. And again, these are the guidelines, some of the guidelines that we have to report on as far as the state for federal funds.
TEXT> So so let's say. That,  you show,  you promised that there's going to be some growth. And you say our kids will improve reading levels an average of 1.5 grades, and it comes out with the only improve a half a grade. Did they notice that or does that? No.  Is it penalties.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: For that. There's no penalties that anything for that.

[11649-253] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the first half of the year, or it may start in the second half of the year. Then you're done with English and you go through eight of those, courses. Some of them are quarter classes meet different types of things. So what. We will.
TEXT> Be looking at and talking about, we've already started pulling some of the  equivalencies around seeing and looking at other models, what other people  have have done. But we're looking at ways in which we may be able to have some classes go the whole year  so that you're meeting with the same. The teacher has the same set of kids for in English. I'll use that example all the way throughout the year.  If you do that, and there's different models of these classes and we can look at that.  You, you have substantially more time, 30, 40% more time in that subject all the way through. And the concepts I just want to put out today that that we're looking at what is a core class in  what is in elective class, what lines up with the graduation requirements for the school? Are they what we should be offering for all of the kids? Should we look at those things? There's impacts all the way.  Through what we'll be looking at and talking about and getting feedback on. But we hope to have proposals which we would have to have in a timely manner just  from our last board meeting. In order to do this, we want to have a draft proposal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We want to model a few. We want to be ready to do this going into budget season, which begins almost immediately, October, November. And then we're in the throes

[11649-282] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Prescott Herzog: did that first semester and was done. Because right now you take like 32 credits. And you need 27 for the diploma. And so essentially, senior year was a wash and still took classes and everything, but the graduation requirements were completed very early on.
TEXT> And, and it is that way. And, you know,  where I'll most your in a outstanding student and you're in in  we have many more students like that's more the norm than it is the exception. So when you look at this and we can we'll show numbers. We'll look at all the other types, types of things. Not the norm to have like 32 racked up for your senior year. Like let me qualify that. That's not normal okay. That's amazing. And and these amazing but but the but in terms of what kids can access and how they access. We have some other  we had a great meeting with the  community college and  in talking about how many of our students and we're trying to pull this,  I'm working with Ray Curran and the guidance department. And we looked we have and we have for years. And this is  what we want to, you know,  focus on for years we've had students like in Prescott's one of them. Right. So we have students who are graduate. He's graduating from Stevens, but he also has college credits in the bank from the arrangements at the community college.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As to a lot of our other students. And those are the types of things that we want to accentuate. Okay, where particularly if you're going if you're going to

[11649-283] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: want to, you know, focus on for years we've had students like in Prescott's one of them. Right. So we have students who are graduate. He's graduating from Stevens, but he also has college credits in the bank from the arrangements at the community college.
TEXT> As to a lot of our other students. And those are the types of things that we want to accentuate. Okay, where particularly if you're going if you're going to Keene, if you're going to a for teaching degree, all these other types of types of  degrees out there, you're starting a semester ahead. It's it's literally  money in the bank for some of these programs. And, and  and I think we do a good job with this. We have the kids there. But I think we want to get the message out more of of all the amazing things that we've been doing. And,  Dan Decker. Right.  All these teachers have been doing this for years and years, and that's, that's the story wants out a little bit more and we want to just go go on that. And any type of schedule that we have will still allow for that, maybe even amplify it. So that's and still get to the core. We have a lot of work to do on it, but we're excited about pursuing it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Good. So the.

[11649-295] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Unidentified: Linking them.
TEXT> So they already are linked. So our teachers, our teachers, as long as the the course is aligned and they have a masters degree and they meet the competencies and meet with Jerry Powell, they already do. So those. So  it's a pretty good deal for the college as well because they're looking at the profile,  opening up  things. And our, our students take those in the same schedule that we have. They are also open to looking and trying to maximize times in their schedules. What they and just having a, you know, broadening our  kind of long standing  relationship that way and looking to do things like that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So those courses are available online. You start did you know?

[11649-313] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Steven Horsky: lot going on. When we're talking about going back to almost being normal again. So I know that there's so many facets, and I was just basically looking at if this is real, let's try it. If it's not real, thus we can slow down.
TEXT> Yeah. Yeah. So and it could be the case that the two things aren't like I said, they're not contingent upon each other. There might be something we need more time with. There might be something that we can do, but no matter what, and I and I do think and I, I like it, I like it  the, the ambition of, of the  of the board. And for us to get this out there I we started it we we I started it when, when we got the job looking at it. So it is it is a hard thing to do culturally and otherwise. I don't know if you know.  I mean, there was this they went to the Supreme Court over the schedule in the high school,  and they were at loggerheads within the previously. We're not there. We had a bunch of people, you know, talking about this. We talked about the union of this,  about this and and what we were looking at is kind of the equity of all teaching assignments. And  as you've heard, the boards charge in every meeting  and particularly a member of about operating more like a business in making efficiencies when we can, but all for the outcomes of the kids. That's where we are. Right now. So we have we covered.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm not sure if we've covered a or not. Second elementary school realignment, have we?

[11649-322] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: out what they are and then let's kick it off to a policy committee. So I want to get some clarity on whatever what my my colleagues on the board, when we talk about pay per, per play, what are we talking about Steve okay.
TEXT> So in my mind, what I've stood it to be,  is in order. If you're playing a sport, you're paying some sort of fee to play it. And tonight was a perfect example. Bowling. They have to buy their own balls. They have to buy their own shoes. Kids have to buy their own cleats to play baseball, sneakers to play basketball. The the people that I think are really kind of losing out is it's not even the reason we have to call it pay to play sports is because there's a fair amount of funding that's going into the baseball team and the football team, high school level, even at the middle school level. As far as jerseys, where it's unfair is that the kids that are in the other arts, music, theater, they don't have a huge expense, but we're not buying all their costumes and props. They're usually donated or  somebody made them. And I think we're.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm not sure. Do we buy their instruments? I don't think so.

[11649-331] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-06-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Are you suggesting then what I hear you saying is that we should be paying for everything?
TEXT> That's exactly what I'm not saying, okay? If you're in that sport, the family should be responsible for some of it. And interestingly enough, when I was in Southern California, that's how it was. If you played baseball, you had to pay X amount, and if you returned your jersey torn and stuff like that, you had to pay a fee for reconditioning or replacement. That was how it was. You have to buy your own gear, your own pads, your own this, your own that. I'm not saying we can necessarily have to go to that extreme, because that is it's a pretty big burden on a family. But then again, they're usually going to be able to wear it for a couple seasons, usually at least the pads and most of the newer football stuff, it's removable and drop in. But I think I my under this is just my interpretation of what I understand it to be. So I could be wrong. But when you're spending a hefty chunk of change for football, baseball, basketball because you're paying for facilities, maintenance, so on and so forth, and then you have limited costs for the kids that are using the auditorium, because that's about it. You don't need a referee there that you're paying.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Again.

[11649-336] Unidentified | Unidentified board member - out-of-district athletes, remote learning  | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Has.
TEXT> Kind of more. It started off as the conversation of. People outside of this community paying to play sports here at our middle school. And it's kind of gone from that conversation, which still needs to happen,  to the conversation of all students paying to play sports. So it's it's kind of two separate things that have kind of started. It did start off at one of the meetings about the their kids from out of district that are playing sports here,  that are getting the benefits of the taxpayer money or the money that we pay in taxes that aren't paying, they're paying their way. So it's.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: So it's two.

[11649-344] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: The.
TEXT> The genesis of it I, I think they both were the topics though. So the genesis of the out of town kids  this year and it also happened during Covid and one was from out of state during Covid and that so the the students that we knew about this year, we did address it. We did charge them. We just divided by the the rates so that they they actually did pay to play okay for this year. I don't want the people at home to think that we didn't when we caught that, but it brought up the larger issue, right? We didn't want to take that opportunity. It had been going on in some cases for years and things like that. And it's,  it's what we call it in the office. Another thing, like a historical, a historical. We got to go back to that one. So we we have to have a policy on it. The, the, the, I think the foundational parts of it that were toughest for folks were,  if our kids, in addition to paying for that, historically, it was used kind of with the expectation that that kid may go to Stevens and we're trying to draw kids in intuition kids from sending communities with a big perspective.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It also, you know, this happens in every state in community. I don't think it was an abuse where we were getting really star athletes or things like that, or

[11649-345] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-06-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: toughest for folks were, if our kids, in addition to paying for that, historically, it was used kind of with the expectation that that kid may go to Stevens and we're trying to draw kids in intuition kids from sending communities with a big perspective.
TEXT> It also,  you know, this happens in every  state in community. I don't think it was an abuse where we were getting really star athletes or things like that, or there was some gamesmanship to be a powerhouse or things like that.  But I do think,  the tougher part is when even if that kid is playing for another community and they come in and they take the spot of a kid if there's A, A, B, or even sea level, then and they bump one of our kids when that's really something that is,  or that position can be viewed to be kind of the property of the town. Right? It's a rite of passage to go in there and how you do that, and that's, that's where it got a little sticky.  And, and I don't, I don't necessarily know that there would direct impacts for this year or other years, but I think that's something that the committee agreed that we should look into that get get kind of the facts and just come up with general guidance on that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I do want to say on the other issue, though, Steve, and that this is something that we've already put out to the principals about the the cares money. So

[11720-79] Donna Magoon |  | 2021-07-01
PREV> Mary Woodman: That we.
TEXT> Hear complaining that they don't have enough staff. And if you have staff, can you send them. Our way? We actually have our staff, and we have probably about 4 or 5 staffs from other districts that are coming to us for our summer programs because they're that excited about it and seeing good things happening with us. So it's pretty exciting that our staff is, you know, even though everything that they've been through this last year and a half, it seems like five years, they're still willing to come in and and do what needs to be done for our kids. So it's really exciting to see them. And they're just as energized as if it was their very first day teaching. So we've been pretty excited about that. We're really lucky.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah it's been great. So so yeah that's that's all I had just for a highlight reel. And then we have the other other things. Yes.

[11720-85] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; SAU 6 Board member | 2021-07-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes. Oh yeah.
TEXT> So we're bussing for the students. They're getting all day program. They're getting a meal. The person.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: They're getting breakfast, lunch and two snacks.

[11720-95] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Rocco Ruggeri: Pretty soon those those gaps will be closed and it'll just be school 12 months a year.
TEXT> Well to you know I'm not saying. All right. So for the students at home who just have getting getting into the regiment, we're not. But  I do think particularly with  to not to not waste  a crisis. Right. So the things in terms of individualized instruction supports  with with computers, other types of things, it's great for kids to get outside, get rid of screens, to trust me, that's a very, very major  part of this. But it is great to think of how we can support, in a variety of ways and complement  what's going on in the classroom throughout the year. Even before, well, we were talking about we have we have more summer reading kind of components and things that we're putting out. We're going to go back to  the,  the, the fair, back to school fair, some other types of things. And then the other item that I didn't put on here  specifically, but wanted to say, as we know, and we have to do that individually.  Through the different boards. But we are prepared. Both boards have said  over and over, and it's certainly,  the intention of the administrative team to open 100% as, as, as regular instruction as we can.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Like, meaning that's that's it. And then we're going to see, exactly what turns, you know, Covid might take or whatever. But that's certainly our intent. Always was our intent.

[11720-155] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Unidentified: Yep. Okay. This is.
TEXT> This is a challenge with what are called choice towns, where the kids are allowed to go wherever they want to is there's no necessarily incentive for them to tell us beforehand. And, you know, I would say surely there are going to be towns, whether it be Newport, US, unity, sunup, they will have kids show up on day one or be told about it 2 or 3 days before that they didn't know about. And there will be some scampering to be able to address that. So the superintendent and the business office and all the way through were reaching out constantly trying to find that answer. And of course the earlier the better for us.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Is there any impact on special ed?

[11720-159] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Michael Tempesta: 20 like we always thought. We don't know where they are. I think you're going to see more movement in the early grades where, you know, I, I, I would fully expect someone to finish out at a middle school where they're already socially connected.
TEXT> I think most of it will be elementary.  We the I think the two new ones we have so far are at Claremont.  And what we heard anecdotally when we were at the fair, which  was a while ago, was that one of that one of those was sports related, okay. Where a kid is already in the youth sports with the with the Claremont kids is coming this way. So,  we'll know more about it. And I can if I could just send out an informational emails and update, particularly  over the next few weeks, to see where that is.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Okay. Any other questions on community form? Okay. Pretty much. Our last agenda item is Superintendent Evaluation subcommittee. I know Heather's looking at me. Heather and I are both on

[11720-182] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-01
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Well, soccer, field hockey, we all have other lives we can debate. In.
TEXT> In the in the timing, too, is we? Definitely. I'll put goals together same way. It's the same. They'll be aligned to the strategic plan. It's the same thing that I'm going to do with the administrative team where we're we actually have something to align the goals  with as well. So it's all it's a very common format. However, however you do, Lars, we met with at the retreat. We talked about setting up those goals, having it aligned. We're going to do that as well on our side, so that everything is focused on student achievement in both places, everything that's in the strategic plan that there's anything other decided for, for mine, that's fine. But that's that's where all the principles are, you know, just okay.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: And that's certainly feeds into. It's your your evaluation.

[11776-12] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Microphone right here.
TEXT> Thank you. My name is Michael. Some of you know me some of you don't. Longtime Claremont guy. I am here on behalf of a small group of 12 year old boys from Wethersfield, Vermont, who need a place to play tackle football. If you're not aware, there is. I know there's been discussion about out of town kids playing for Claremont. But it's it's super important that a decision be made on this. So these kids have come up through the mini Cardinals program. But in the state of Vermont, in seventh and eighth grade, you're not allowed to play tackle football. It's not offered. There's there's a rule against it. They play flag football. It's completely different. It's a different game. I think it's dangerous that they're playing flag football instead of tackle football. But I can talk for an hour on that. These kids are good kids. We're asking that they qualify academically. We're asking that they qualify behaviorally just to the same standards as the Claremont Colleges do. Logistically, it's just over the river. You're going to be playing against towns that probably have Vermont kids on their team. I'm sure the Hartford kids are going to be going to Lebanon and Hanover and asking if they can play there.
NEXT> Michael: Claremont has an opportunity to be a hero to a few kids, and we're asking you to do that, and we're willing to pay. We're willing to pay our way.

[11776-13] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael: Claremont Colleges do. Logistically, it's just over the river. You're going to be playing against towns that probably have Vermont kids on their team. I'm sure the Hartford kids are going to be going to Lebanon and Hanover and asking if they can play there.
TEXT> Claremont has an opportunity to be a hero to a few kids, and we're asking you to do that, and we're willing to pay. We're willing to pay our way. Claremont citizens have a big enough tax obligation. We. If my son's good enough to make the team, I'll pay. I'll pay to cover his costs.  If there's a kid who can't pay, we'll find the money. We're ready to go to work. We just are asking for a path and a direction to be able to do that. So please, talk about it. Discuss it, vote on it. Give us some direction here. These kids over the last year and a half have suffered more than most. They've just been sitting behind screens. If you're a parent, you know how hard it is to get your kid to be passionate about anything. And these kids are passionate about the game of football. Let's allow them to play. Let's have them play for Claremont. It's close. It makes sense. They already know the other kids. They already know the other coaches. Please. Thank you. If you guys. A month from now, if you guys meet again, it's probably too late. Football season is now. They're already conditioning at the high school and the middle school level two days a week.
NEXT> Michael: A couple of weeks from now, they're going to start putting in the playbook. It's it's a long term commitment. So it's it's got to be soon. And that's why

[11776-18] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: Meant before. I think with the time frame that we're dealing with, it is fact that they are conditioning for football. How many children are we looking at.
TEXT> Right now? It's for all of them. Played for the Cardinals last year there. Devoted dedicated kids to to tackle football. Their kids that are going to play it all the way up through high school.  In high school, obviously it won't be an issue in high school. They can go to Windsor or they can go to Springfield and play. But at the middle school level, it's just not an option. And for me, they're missing out on two years of development and growth. And and Claremont's got great coaches and it's so close logistically we can make it work. We can. We're all going to work together to get our kids to the practices and to the bus, you know, for the games. And again, they're going to have to hold. They're going to have to live up to their end of the bargain, too, in regards to attitude and school work. They're going to be held accountable for those things. We want that to be the case. I've been holding this over my kid for years now, and he's doing all the right things and he still can't play. And I you know, as a parent, I want to fight and I want to I want to give him that opportunity, and I and I need you guys to do that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Have you talked to Doug?

[11776-21] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael: We have. And it's just we've talked to everybody. I'm a Claremont guy I.
TEXT> Sean as well. So we're just holding the line. The other precedent that they look at is is there a comparable program. This one is a little bit thorny because as you're as you're saying and as  you know, from back in the day, a flag isn't the same as tackle. But but there is an option. So that was the other thing. If there wasn't any comparable, we had some other sports where  the exception was made when they didn't have a youth program of any kind. Those were easier decisions. That's why this one's got is a little layered. So and I haven't talked specifically to either a D about impacts and pushing. You know, if, if our kids would lose out and I haven't, I haven't gone that far.
NEXT> Michael: Can I bring up the fact that that our the hockey program in, in Stevens combines with a couple of other PSUs to feel the team. I don't see this

[11776-24] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: Think that. Okay. Tell you.
TEXT> There I have gotten mixed reactions from everybody from. Yes. It's it's it's okay. We're going to allow it to happen. Prepare your kid to play football to you know, he's been going to conditioning for the last couple of weeks. And then Sean kind of let him know that look, it doesn't look like you're going to be able to play. And it crushed him and it crushed all these kids. And and I,  I understand the the comparable program of flag. It's not it's not. And you're talking to the guy who ran the flag men's flag football league. I've been playing for 22 years. Flag football. I've run the league up, up behind the college. I've done it for years. It's not the same game.  And again, as somebody who's got a huge athletic background, I don't want my kid to miss out on these moments. I'm 40 years old, and I remember everything about seventh and eighth grade football. I remember everything about high school football. My kid. I want my kid to know that. I want him to challenge himself.
NEXT> Michael: And you guys have that opportunity to let him do that. I can't just buy a house in Claremont or I'll tell you would, you know, I just can't. But

[11776-29] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Nicholas Stone: why we're making that difference. So it shows right there. That is it is a different program as a whole. You know where that's why we keep kind of saying, you know it's a parable maybe. But we're still raging it in that way too.
TEXT> I think it's a safety issue for when they go back to play tackle again. And I'm, I'm fighting my fight in Vermont. We're doing that, but we're just getting started.  And there's a big push to, to get it back. But for right now, it's not going to happen for this year. And it might not happen for next year, but it's a fight that we're going to continue to fight. But because this program is so close, it just makes sense, guys. It really, really does. These kids deserve the opportunity to play. They're doing all the right things.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so procedurally, I wish that we were being approached with hearing from.

[11776-45] Michael | Public commenter, parent seeking tackle football for Wethersfield VT m | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: We could allow them to continue the condition with the exception that the final approval will, will be then it'll give us a chance to vet it, get some pros and cons in front of you and and take action.
TEXT> That's my mission today is to just. We really need to open the discussion up as soon as we can. And I understand that there's protocol and procedures that need to be followed in doing so. So if they're allowed to at least continue to condition with the understanding that this will be brought up potentially as early as the next meeting to be voted on a couple of weeks. I think that that is a really fair, thing that I just, you know, I want these kids to know that.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: That's where I was going. I, I, I think we let them continue to condition and practice and learn the playbook. And then at our next meeting, put it on

[11776-67] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: cleaning, because it is it's also a lot of the stuff that is was on the other side of the building where the summer program is, is stacked in there. Next slide. This is the calf and you can see all the, it was amazing.
TEXT> I was in there a couple of times  over  the weekend. What was very interesting was  in the feedback that we're getting and what I. But I've seen with my own eyes, with the, with the faculty and with the says the kids literally don't want to go home. So they  they were in there, there, fired up there socializing. It's exactly what the intent of the program was  to get them. But I got to be honest  in the normal or whatever, but I don't know that it was ever normal to be digging into math problems in July. I don't, but they they were and they are, and it's consistent and it's absolutely wonderful.  Just as the principals kind of pushed in the in the planning team pushed to have the themes. And we're so lucky we got on that early. We have about 200 kids participating. It's wonderful.  Next slide please. Okay.  This is I don't want to steal the thunder, but I they're going to do a presentation to beat the band I wanted to send. I was sending the board packet out in a  couple of hours, so I wanted to put something in there, but they'll go into that in more depth.  The the other piece that I had for if you skipped down,  I have the slide in there to just highlight  two, two more slides, please.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Mr. small, that's our Covid information right now. And things are really good in the region. I don't want to. We have it as an agenda item. I wanted to

[11776-75] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (departing for another district) | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Thank you. Donna wanted to say a few words.
TEXT> Yes. Thank you very much for that. I just wanted to talk a little bit about. Me leaving, and I just had something that I just wanted to share with everyone. There have been a lot of things. That have been hard. For me to do. However. This is the hardest. Sorry. My heart is saddened. It's sad because I'm leaving behind my family. My family that has been very supportive for me for the last three years. When I first started in this position, I did not know how important the students, families, staff in this community would be to me. I've had the opportunity to work with so many amazing and dedicated people. To the families. You have trusted me and felt comfortable reaching out to me with questions or concerns. And I thank you very much for your trust. Everyone has shown me time and time again that nothing can stop us when we come together. Staff. The last year and a half has taken a toll on many people, but you have all stood strong and made sure our students were number one priority. I admire all of you. You've been my strength, my inspiration, and I thank you all very much for that. This path may be leading me in a different direction for now, but I hope it brings me back here to Claremont, back home to my family again. Thank you all very much for all your support.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay, transitioning to our action items curriculum discussion. Elementary fish tank pilot. So just a quick background on this. That and other. Correct me if I'm incorrect. Some things came

[11776-93] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Brendan: I just did a great homemaker. Yes. Okay, fine. Okay. Thank you. Will be interesting. Yeah. We introduced so.
TEXT> I'm so excited to be talking to you today about fishing. Okay, so let's just give a little background about where this came from. This has been a project that actually we're entering our second year in. And it was a team of teachers and administrators. And this is really grounded in reading achievement. So we are looking at this project through the lens of reading achievement. So I've been a teacher in the district for six years. I've been a classroom teacher for six years, entering my seventh. And when I started to notice is year after year, I would look at most students end of your benchmark reading scores, and I just wasn't seeing the growth that I thought I should see. Okay. And it didn't make sense to me because we have students who are working hard. We have a big chunk of instructional time for literacy. We have teachers working hard, so it really made me wonder what's going on. Now. Some students are moving. Absolutely. But for some of our students, the dial is just not moving enough. And we wanted to find out why. What's happening?  And that's not just happening in my classroom in the packet that we prepare for you, if you look at page 33, 34 and 35, we pulled state assessment data from staff. And you can see at the district level year after year, we're not seeing a lot of reading growth.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And I pulled elementary schools I couldn't pull we couldn't pull Maple School because they combined Claremont with gusto. So that's why we did this Maple Street.

[11776-97] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: And we did prioritize peer reviewed articles. So we pull from scholarly journals. But we did want to write a perspective. So you will also see like news articles and interviews. And what we're really looking for is what are the best instructional reading practices.
TEXT> What are the research based practices, what are the evidence based practices? And also, are there other schools who were able to turn the dial and what are they doing?  Also, these two books and this is in in your packet as well. These two books were really informative for this part of the project. The  the research. And the. Research part. So the Knowledge Gap by Nancy Wexler and Building Background Knowledge by Robert Morris.  And I know people educators are  definitely recognize Robert Marzano. And he's a very highly regarded researcher. Okay. So through all of that process, the questioning, the research, we found that there is something different that we could be doing to improve reading achievement. And that's okay. Concerning comes in. Okay. So what is fishing for me? It is a knowledge based reading program. So this means that students still learn reading skills and like Common Core standards within books. So our students are still learning how to find text evidence. They're still learning how to compare and contrast. They're still learning how to  understand text features and informational text. But here's where it's really important.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: This is the key difference that students are learning this within a topic of science or social studies. So for example this is one unit where they are learning about

[11776-101] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: it's a is addressing. Because as readers, we need vocabulary and we need context or knowledge of the topic to be able to understand the language. And this is really important. People, adults and kids, we need to read with about 95 to 98% accuracy.
TEXT> That's really high, right? So we need to know a lot of the words on the page to be able to comprehend. Okay. Now this I love this example. This is really interesting. This is pulled from an actual state standardized test. This is a third grade reading passage. But like most reading passages, it is based on science and social studies. It's based on Canadian Arctic in the UK. So if you look at this passage, think about if a child does not have science and social studies knowledge and vocabulary, think about the words that they're not going to be able to comprehend. And that's what you see here. Remote Canadian Arctic survived,  even caribou herds adapted. So you can see how difficult that language comprehension piece is going to be. If a child does not have the content, knowledge and vocabulary to access those words. So what students. Already know about the content is one of the strongest indicators to how they will learn new information  relevant to the content. And this really matters for our students. Research.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: Finds that overall, students living in poverty are already behind their peers before they even enter kindergarten. Researchers found about a 30 million word gap at kindergarten between children who

[11776-102] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: does not have the content, knowledge and vocabulary to access those words. So what students. Already know about the content is one of the strongest indicators to how they will learn new information relevant to the content. And this really matters for our students. Research.
TEXT> Finds that overall,  students living in poverty are already behind their peers before they even enter kindergarten.  Researchers found about a 30 million word gap at kindergarten between children who are  in poverty and children who are not living in poverty. And Marzano did a really interesting study that found that students living in poverty overall  performed lower academically. And he found that if he gave the same test to two different groups of children, children,  that are living in poverty and children that are not only about 15%, 15% of those students would pass that test  versus children who are not living in poverty. About 50% of them would be able to pass that test.  And there are many, many factors that go into creating that,  knowledge gap and gaps in vocabulary and background knowledge, lack of resources and experiences also make a huge difference. Okay, so we know. That kids may enter in if they're living in poverty. They may enter in with gaps can garden right away. So what happens if the gap doesn't close? So any case, foundation for the Polish report called double jeopardy. And this is a really serious report. So they found a direct correlation between a child's reading level in third grade and their likelihood to graduate high school.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: On time. So a child who is not reading on grade level in third grade is less likely to graduate high school on time. Okay. Now there's also a direct

[11776-103] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: happens if the gap doesn't close? So any case, foundation for the Polish report called double jeopardy. And this is a really serious report. So they found a direct correlation between a child's reading level in third grade and their likelihood to graduate high school.
TEXT> On time. So a child who is not reading on grade level in third grade is less likely to graduate high school on time. Okay. Now  there's also a direct correlation between students who live in poverty, students who live in poverty. There is also a direct correlation for the likelihood to not graduate on time. So this is where this report double jeopardy. This is the name name comes from. Because if you have a student who's living in poverty and they're experiencing low reading achievement, they are at risk of a double jeopardy for not graduating high school on time. That's pretty serious.  So that's why we we really started to look heavily at a knowledge based reading program, because it is critical for students to have the decoding skills that one bubble and the language comprehension skills to be able to read. And this is why we looked at a knowledge based reading program to build that language comprehension. So the next thing. That  we talked about was our. Criteria for. Selecting a knowledge based program. So based on our research and what we know about children and how they learn,  we decided that there were three main things that we were looking for when selecting a program to use.  The first was how is the program designed?  Meaning how  did they go about deciding what the children were going to learn in each grade level?
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And then number two was how strong is the vertical alignment? So meaning, the correlation between the grades and how it builds over time. And three, what if the quality,

[11776-108] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: and it is rating three gateway three usability. It does not meet expectations, however. Fish Tank has since updated like their online interface. And so we we use the updated version and we found it very simple and easy to you serious for funding right.
TEXT> All  right. So how do we talk about what actually happened in our pilot. Because we did pilot this. And this is our own experience in student achievement. So this is a kind of a snapshot of the reading data in my classroom at the beginning of the year. So I teach second grade this year I had 40% of my classroom come in reading at a kindergarten level. And that is also what I found in my small group instruction assessment. 40% of children coming into second grade reading at a kindergarten level. Right. I had which which also  about 30 to 35% is what's typical. So a little bit higher, but not a whole lot. Okay, 100% of my students scoring at kindergarten or grade one level in informational text. So if you look at the bottom bar, this is informational text. The yellow means grade one and the red means okay. And up here in the green means for you two. So Fish Tank is really addressing these three informational text comprehension literature text comprehension or vocabulary comprehension okay. All right. So 40% reading at kindergarten level at the end of the year I saw so much growth in our classroom, saw so much growth in the backdrop of a Covid year.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: It's really exceptional. At the end of the year, we had 19% of students scoring at a kindergarten reading level, and those were, a few students who also receive intensive

[11776-109] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: these three informational text comprehension literature text comprehension or vocabulary comprehension okay. All right. So 40% reading at kindergarten level at the end of the year I saw so much growth in our classroom, saw so much growth in the backdrop of a Covid year.
TEXT> It's really exceptional. At the end of the year, we had 19% of students scoring at a kindergarten reading level, and those were,  a few students who also receive intensive instruction in the area of reading and speech and language. So their their needs are being met as well. I had students reading at grade five, grade three, and grade two informational text level. I actually had to pull down my books from when I taught upper levels, because I had students reading high.  And about 40% of my students overall were reading grade two informational level. And  if you want to see a more detailed report on page eight, you can see,  a more detailed report. So the top is the snapshot up here. And then you can see each student I blocked out their names. But if you read it this way and info is the column all over to the right, you can see grade five at the top, grade three, late two and two. Okay. So this was this was a lot of growth. This was not what I typically see in a year and in a Covid year or top of it. It was a lot of growth.
NEXT> Unidentified: This is also including something that were out remote. One of them said.

[11776-113] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: the knowledge and the vocabulary. This is a student who has intensive reading and writing needs, who's still able to access the vocabulary and the content. And as we said before, this is an English as a second language learner who was in our classroom.
TEXT> Okay, so talking about all the great things  about fishtank learning, we also wanted to give you a little bit of background on some of the reasons why, we think that the current program that we have,  is maybe not working for our students as well.  So again, we went to some  scholarly journals, looked for peer reviewed articles,  as well,  because that's very important when you're researching,  to see what do they have to say about wonders now that it's been out for quite a bit of time? So Edgar Port said, in Gateway to Building Knowledge, it only partially meets the expectations.  Education Week said science and social studies content is covered every week, but the curriculum itself is not organized around these topics, nor designed to systematically build students knowledge about them. So we did bring one of the basal readers to show you what we mean by that. This is the current program. So this is what kids read most of the time called the Reading Writing Workshop. It's a textbook. And then here are some level readers. So this is what this is what they're talking about when they're saying that curriculum itself is not organized around topics. So for example, unit three first topic is the Earth's forces where students read about magnets and then they reach true.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: They look at the sky, they're reading a fiction story about starry nights, and then they are reading the next story about, solar panels. And then the next week is

[11776-114] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: some level readers. So this is what this is what they're talking about when they're saying that curriculum itself is not organized around topics. So for example, unit three first topic is the Earth's forces where students read about magnets and then they reach true.
TEXT> They look at the sky, they're reading a fiction story about starry nights, and then they are reading the next story about, solar panels. And then the next week is about tornadoes. And then the last week is about expressing yourself. They've got the beat. So they organize this random question, which is, what have you learned about the world that surprises you are a theme. They're not organizing it around those units of study. And the texts themselves are not those vocabulary rich texts that you're seeing in front of you as well. Most of them are about 4 to 5 pages. And the first one is called Little Flap Learns to Fly, and it's about a bird, as you can probably guess. So it doesn't have that relate ability for students. It's not about another child that's learning to do something new. It's about a bird. It makes it a little less interesting to them because they can't relate. They also said if a content rich electric curriculum is a priority, then maybe a school might want to compare wonders against some of the programs that are specifically designed to meet this goal, like fish tank learning and content rich means science and social studies. Rich content typically speaks to science and social studies and student achievement partners said wonders does not consistently display the features of content rich Ela instruction.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: The curriculum only partially builds content knowledge systematically, and consequently, discussion and writing in response to texts is not consistently focused on building content. Knowledge and relationships among words are

[11776-115] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: are specifically designed to meet this goal, like fish tank learning and content rich means science and social studies. Rich content typically speaks to science and social studies and student achievement partners said wonders does not consistently display the features of content rich Ela instruction.
TEXT> The curriculum only partially builds content knowledge systematically, and consequently, discussion and writing in response to texts is not consistently focused on building content. Knowledge and relationships among words are not emphasized. So, for instance,  they have seven vocabulary words that are randomly selected from the text each week, and there's no greater connection. They don't ever see those words again. And as soon as he says, is a really interesting organization to review a program because they are reviewing based on the criteria, what what is evidence based? So are the instructional methods in this program. Do they align with evidence based practices. And so I think that is really important to know that Student Achievement Partners is saying that it is not building content knowledge systematically. Okay. So we have some yeah, this is just a fun part. We had some  feedback for you from  ourselves and from students. The first thing about it is students are excited about it. They love seeing what book we're going to read next. Lots of times on Fridays, we'll give them little hints on Monday as to what book they're going to get to read next week.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And we have experienced no behavior or avoidance of task issues with this reading program, which is something that we normally do see. We we say, all right, everyone, it's

[11776-116] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: The first thing about it is students are excited about it. They love seeing what book we're going to read next. Lots of times on Fridays, we'll give them little hints on Monday as to what book they're going to get to read next week.
TEXT> And we have experienced no behavior or avoidance  of task issues with this reading program, which is something that we normally do see. We we say, all right, everyone, it's time to pull out our, our we call it in my class, our swordfish book because it has a purpose on it. It's time for  our swordfish book. We're going to read our story for the week, and we'll have children crawling under tables, hiding. No bathroom. I have to see the notes. Whereas this with these texts, they are excited to get to read them. And I think it's also right. You have to remember that we're getting a percentage of children who are coming and reading grade levels behind. So reading genuinely is challenging. They're working really, really hard. So for us to not see that behavior or avoidance of task, it was the opposite. Kids were so excited to come in Monday and to get their books. And we also noticed that it significantly strengthened our students writing ability.  Because of those daily tasks, every, every day they are writing about the same subject, different questions, and they're very open ended questions. There's not necessarily  for most questions. There's not necessarily a right or wrong answer. It's can they look at the book? Can they pull information from there and and tell us what they know.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: And they, they use the text. So they're constantly looking back at that story, flipping through it again, to gain more knowledge. So they're very interested, as you can see.

[11776-117] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Cassandra Lockwood: the same subject, different questions, and they're very open ended questions. There's not necessarily for most questions. There's not necessarily a right or wrong answer. It's can they look at the book? Can they pull information from there and and tell us what they know.
TEXT> And  they, they use the text.  So they're constantly looking back at that story, flipping through it again, to gain more knowledge. So they're very interested, as you can see. You know, we have habitats,  is our first topic in second grade that we study. They're super interested in it. The next one is about insects. So they're all things that kids are very interested in. And, and they wonder about,  and  they can easily relate to. So they're, they're very motivated to write about it and tell what they know. Yeah. So we would have kids wanting to bring the,  the books everywhere we go to Moody Park once a week for outdoor learning. They would go in those outdoor learning bags, stay would grab them for read to self  socially distant partner reading during free time. I had so many students say, can I keep this book and bring them home? So what a big difference in terms of what we notice with our students and their love of reading. And that is it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[11776-145] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Steven Horsky: that were excluded. And I think they're all, you know, you can only have so much, but there's it seems that it was tailored very intentionally, one direction. And it was kind of leaving some other stuff out. But doing something here. I'm just curious.
TEXT> Can I ask follow up question? And I think it follows up to it. Steve, can you just briefly tell us why do the kids find this so engaging? The selections.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Emotional.

[11776-170] Cassandra Lockwood | Second grade teacher, Maple Avenue School; Fish Tank pilot teacher | 2021-07-21
PREV> Brendan: And he could be a leader, like tell. And inform.
TEXT> His right and he right. And he was he was able to say, yeah, this is what happened.  And so they they find it interesting because it's the science topics, very high interest and the stories,  with children in them, you know, the ones that aren't science texts, obviously, they are about kids that they can relate to.  They can relate to children. They can understand,  the emotions and the feelings and, the events that are happening to children. There was something else, too, that I noticed that we talked about in our PLC and with Kathleen and reflecting upon this program, it's really difficult to facilitate an in-depth conversation, meaningful conversation about little fireflies, babies. Whereas when we talked about Jessie, Jessie's saved for three years she worked as a centrist, and she saved money so her grandmother could join her across the sea. Because Jesse loved living in America and she wanted her grandmother to join her. That facilitates conversation, too. So I think that maybe that's getting to your question is.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's emotional.

[11776-178] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: Did you have a question?
TEXT> Not a question. It was just speaking with my educator hat on. Having been in a second grade classroom this entire past school year. Those books are terrible. The kids look at.
NEXT> Brendan: Oh, these ones.

[11776-181] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. No, no no, no.
TEXT> I mean, they pull the same thing out every time. They're like, oh, if they hated one story. Oh yeah. Yeah. So yeah, second grade, first grade. There's like three different ones that we use. They all have the same cover with a different number on the front. And the kids don't like them. They're like, oh, Jack has a cat. The cat ran away. Oh, where did the cat. You can't talk about.
NEXT> Brendan: Not engaging.

[11776-190] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Petrin: Are you muted.
TEXT> I'm not muted  for once I'm not muted. So just to advocate on behalf of you know yeah you know full public disclosure and stuff. What I found challenging for me was I hundred percent agree. And I'll say it again just so it's clear to everybody, nobody objects to the content. It's the it's the and I understand that kids are really, really engaged because it's really intense. And I don't think you can go through this and look at this and not recognize that it's, it's it's very intense. And I recognize, too, that kids are exposed to very intense situations in their personal lives. And I tried to look at this curriculum in a way, through a child's eyes and through a parent size. And and I do want to speak a little bit to, even though I'm really heartened to hear that social studies is covered elsewhere, because I was really concerned about what was, what wasn't covered and what was highlighted. Is that when we were talking, when we were living through Covid, we as a, as a community and as a board recognized that kids were in really intense, intense situations at home and that they were carrying not only the weight of their own lives, but the weight of their families. And that school was a little bit of a respite from that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And the themes that come through the social science portion of the curriculum, really, and it kind of tells the kids that they're responsible for fixing really big adult problems.

[11776-191] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board Vice Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Heather Whitney: as a board recognized that kids were in really intense, intense situations at home and that they were carrying not only the weight of their own lives, but the weight of their families. And that school was a little bit of a respite from that.
TEXT> And the themes that come through the social science portion of the curriculum, really, and it kind of tells the kids that they're responsible for fixing really big adult problems. And that's the theme that comes through over and over to me, is that we have huge, gigantic problems in the world, and you seven year old have to do your part to fix this. And I know, I know, it seems like I think you understand what I'm saying. Or maybe you don't understand what I'm saying. And so it was just that's the age appropriateness. And it wasn't I didn't see it as,  solely an introduction to,  what I would consider culturally relevant pedagogy, which is what I read a lot about. Sure. Yeah.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: I disagree, and I think when we look at the book, some books there, there is a level of intensity. But if you really look at the books, they are

[11776-196] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (participating remotely) (uncertain - tw | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I dropped. Can you hear Rob?
TEXT> Yeah. My second child will go through her class. So I really respect her piloting this program and put a lot of faith in  what she's saying about this. I want to make sure that I speak up on behalf of the educators that reached out as well, while simultaneously kind of throwing my support behind what I'm hearing. So what I'd like to kind of angle towards is how would you respond to people that are saying they agree with the content? They're afraid of it becoming too heavy handed, though. Is there a way that we can communicate to the parents that we hear your concerns about it coming across? Borderline indoctrination is the word that I heard. How can we reassure them that they are incapable hands, that you guys have vetted this material, that you're not trying to indoctrinate our children? You're really just because, honestly, I would much rather than have these conversations with Mrs. Lockwood rather than, you know, runny nose. Johnny on the schoolyard. So I would like to hear your feedback on that.
NEXT> Cassandra Lockwood: So I. Would say to. Principals, where are these units and where are these books coming from?

[11776-220] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: What does it mean? Vetted by the community. What's the end goal there? Has that been part of the process in the past? New curriculum is having the community that I.
TEXT> I think that there's a lot of concern. I mean, we're hearing that there's concern from educators. We're hearing that there's concern out in the community. I think that there is a lot of content that is fantastic. I mean, that's the one thing I want everybody to get out of this is that we're not trying to beat down the content, but there is questions of age appropriate ness. If it's to too much like we want to see gains don't get us strong. That's like that's what our goal is, is to have these children grow up and actually be able to to take the knowledge that they're getting from us and produce with it. So  I think that whether it's the community. I mean, I think we need maybe we need a meeting with the people from Fish Tank that you spoke to before. We fully implement, implement and roll it out because I think there's a lot of uncertainty and still some questions.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Just jump in quickly. I'm probably going to say the same thing Melissa is, but, past practice has been the development of a curriculum goes to the curriculum committee. Once

[11776-232] Joshua Lambert | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Melissa Lewis: they hear other kids talking about. And who better to guide a discussion and know when the developmental level has been reached than teachers who work with kids every day at that level. So just my $0.02 and I promise to be quiet. Thank you.
TEXT> That's kind of what I was going to go to. The community is not going to know one way or the other. The community as a whole does not work with these children every day. They don't understand their needs as much as the teachers do, or they're not going to know if this curriculum is going to work for them or not. Which clearly it is, because I've never seen I read scores jump that much, and we've been using the program for two years, which that's another program that  was implemented that I'm sure didn't need community feedback because it's another tool. I mean, teachers use different tools every day, and I don't think the community needs to tell them how to do their job.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[11776-251] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: at social studies is, whereas Abraham Lincoln, my first question was Temple Grandin and no Thomas, no, no Thomas Edison. I mean, that was my initial response. To and, but it's more than that. It's really about teaching kids, skills that will serve them well.
TEXT> We still look at a lot of test data back all the way back to the knee app days. The app kneecap, SATs, SATs, and the example that you showed up there of a typical  SAT question was right on. They are  content questions couched in a in a English language comprehension comprehension based  paragraph. And it's being able to interpret what's in there and respond to it is far more important than what the actual content of the science topic is. I used to do that with my advisory at the high school. We would go over, see,  kneecap release items include strategies. So I was in the camp of we need to we need to have more time. But I'm not anymore. I think I think that we can roll with this. I think it's okay.  I have faith in our teachers. I have faith that they will continue to communicate as they as they should and do.  I don't see a big public uprising to this. I think that just the kids excitement alone. I knew the answer to the question. That's why I asked it. That's why I asked it about three times. I wanted to hear you say it, but it was a I know, I know, it engages readers.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I used to do title one, so it's a, I think it's a great thing. I echo everything that that just about everything that Heather has said about the value

[11776-255] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: The squeeze machine.
TEXT> Yeah, and learn about the other areas. I'd love to see, you know, some of these awesome books about Thomas Edison, about Benjamin Franklin. You know, these are great books. And that's I think that's what helps engage the kids is the, you know, the nice pictures, the artwork, the,  seeing, you know, some of this,  more diverse to through social studies, through the other sciences. I think we could put this out until we're blue in the face and ask people to come and give their input. And lots of times we hear crickets. And I hate to say it, you know, we can you can bring the horse to water, but you can't make them drink.  I, I  think putting a trust in our teachers,  figure out somehow, you know, maybe email, get this out to parents to say this is what's, you know, what we're doing. I personally don't see any reason to hold this up.  You know, to roll this out for next year.  Like I said, I came with more reservations, but I think you answered a lot of those questions. And so.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to give Rob Rob the opportunity to speak.

[11776-257] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member (participating remotely) | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: I'm going to give Rob Rob the opportunity to speak.
TEXT> Program for some time. And there's still a vocal minority that's coming out of woodworks now that it's actually live and complaining on near daily basis. I agree that community input is going to be important. But I think equally as important coming out of Covid, coming out of quarantine is not delaying. What has evidence based results of improving our students academics. And I think delaying this further, to. Get additional input is is an unnecessary step at this time.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And I'll shut up. I'm with you, Frank, is that I was really heartened here that this was not what the that this was not the social studies program because

[11776-276] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: on us to show like a lot of districts have go online look at other districts a scope and sequence that you can see electronically that shows the tools that we're using, the efforts that people are making and maybe what, what the choices are.
TEXT> So just to not with no politics involved or whatever. This is how you go about selecting this. These are the readers, these are the supplements. These are the it takes time to do that. And what I am so excited about that Brant and Donna  in Tammy and and have really made fun a lot like piggybacking off of the exam for staff, because staff need to get excited about learning, and being part of those PLCs and new opportunities is the formation of what we have for review cycles,  critical research and action committees in the professional learning communities, which for those at home, we love our acronyms. Okay, so the idea of those is you meet on a regular basis with student achievement in mind, and you look at data to respond and inform your instruction period. That's it doesn't you don't need degrees or what. That's what you do when you meet on the regularity of that and the expectation of that. We're excited because we're doing that at all levels in the district next year. Again, hasn't hasn't necessarily been consistent in the same way rollouts are. Let's I mean you again, we don't need to it's sometimes it's hard to get everyone on board for a roll out. One pocket of teachers here get excited and things like that. But we need to bring this to scale and all valid points and transparently all valid points. So we're on it.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Thank you. We appreciate you being here so late.

[11776-295] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> So just for clarification purposes, before I try to make another motion, Aaron Lee here tonight.  Are we seeking board recommendation or a motion right now to authorize going? Because last we left, the kids were still wearing masks. Are we looking to  mask the children?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Or so what we already did was we already made it, optional as as we could. We are we are, as an administrative team, going for the most normalcy back

[11776-317] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (departing for another district) | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: That, you know, and right now. And I think thanks to the high immunization rates in New Hampshire, our community transmission rates are not bad here.
TEXT> Well, Frank, we're running our summer program. Masks are optional. No mass on the bus. And I don't want to say anything because I don't want to get. But we're doing well. Our kids are, you know, together in the classrooms, and  we're back. It's normal and it's beautiful. So beautiful.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I guess my my statement would be your question. Are we okay waiting until the first meeting in August to to take a vote on on the beginning of

[11776-354] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, SAU 6 | 2021-07-21
PREV> Frank Sprague: What's that? As long as they're a resident.
TEXT> As long as they're a resident. Yeah. If they want to take their money and go somewhere else, that school gets to decide whether to accept them or not. So if there's a very high needs child or there's whatever it is and the school says, we're not going to take that child because we're going to take only the children that fit within the criteria that we want, then the public school is left with. And if this sounds derogatory, I don't mean to be that way, but we still will have to accept all of the students. So if we do see an outflow of students with their dollars that go, then chances are what we have remaining within our school district is not going to decrease the cost per student. I foresee it increasing the cost per student. Now, whether we'll see a big enough number there to actually make a difference. We don't know. We haven't heard from anyone that I'm aware of. Nothing has come through my office on that. But it's the the dynamic of what this change can mean has  has pretty broad ramifications.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It may just one more information point. So my understanding is, is that if based on standardized testing, which at the high school is the SAT, PSAT SSATSSAT school day

[11776-355] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Richard Seaman: big enough number there to actually make a difference. We don't know. We haven't heard from anyone that I'm aware of. Nothing has come through my office on that. But it's the the dynamic of what this change can mean has has pretty broad ramifications.
TEXT> It may just one more information point. So my understanding is, is that if based on standardized testing, which at the high school is the SAT,  PSAT SSATSSAT school day S.A.T. is that if a school or specific school or district or the schools within the district are  at the 40th percentile or lower,  if you're above that, you're exempt from this because you're seeing if you're in the bottom 40 40th percentile, you're seen as a failing school. And so that's justification enough for someone to say, have choice. This school is not meeting my kids needs. There are failing school. I want to send my kids someplace else. So it'd be interesting to know where are we? Because maybe it's if we're not not at the 40th percentile or lower, it's a moot point. So I don't know where we are as far as that goes.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[11776-384] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2021-07-21
PREV> Unidentified: Make it.
TEXT> Didn't graduate.  I would like to know either in the next meeting or the meeting after that, what is happening with those students? Is there a plan to and have some maybe some of them have already been re have already finished. But I think that it's something I'd like to know if there's a plan for those kids what what it is  and if not the next meeting. The meeting.
NEXT> Unidentified: After that.

[11793-76] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (delivers the superintendent's report [20-60]; c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: do on this. It was very good work that we did with the other. We have all of the documents, all of the other people that we're going to reach out as well in survey for, for the elementary restructure so that that is one.
TEXT> Next, next slide is the previous we had a  the last Monday we spoke about, how we might align  maybe not necessarily have a common schedule. Okay, but how we might align  types of schedules for the Claremont Middle School, Stevens High School in for  the tech center so that we might advantage students with fuller schedules and more opportunities. And  and I want to say it was a little dry for those who were there, even for those who said all the time. But we we really started,  and we will continue the discussions and presentations to the board, to the community.  Once we start digging into this, I also had a conversation with,  with Superintendent Minahan in Newport, and as we did last year, to look at how we might  look at commonality also for the tech center sending. And that's that's something that we I know we haven't been necessarily satisfied with  at the high school and also with,  with Newport, when we run up and we're fighting for slots for our kids and we just want to do that in the year and  in more transparently so. I thought that was a fruitful conversation as well. So this is the master schedule for  for CMS for next year.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The next slide is the master schedule. That that we will have for Stevens. What I tried to do in the right side is little blocked on the screen there

[11793-89] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's built into the matrix. Steve.
TEXT> Yeah. The only thing that I see when we when we're speaking of visitors, are we talking about parents as well, or are we talking outside visitors? Just for clarification, because these students are around parents, I know that I've had kids from all over the district hanging out with my children  throughout the year. So I think the requirement during the minimal period for masking visitors is kind of just doesn't make a lot of sense to me, especially when you don't have to wear them in the grocery store. You don't have to wear them in Walmart. You don't have to wear them at gas stations. I mean, you're around people all day and you're sometimes approaching people so close. I think if we're in the minimal range right now,  as we're seeing that, I think the the a mask requirement doesn't make any sense whatsoever if we want to do it on the school busses, I guess. But at the end of the day, I think a lot of these kids have been around each other all summer.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Would have vendors do right now.

[11793-93] Steven Horsky | Claremont School Board member (answers 'Here' after 'Steve.' in roll c | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Our vaccination rate in Claremont was higher than 42%. Steve, I'd be right with you. If it was 67%.
TEXT> At the end of the day, we can't force people to vaccinate. It's so just saying that we're going to use vaccination as the table as to how we're going to run this district doesn't make a lot of sense to me. There's people that are religious that have the issues with taking the vaccines. Then you have the people that are concerned about whether it's going to have reproductive harm of their students later on. So, I mean, there's a lot of reasons for the younger population to not vaccinate the older population. That's once again their choice. I think we're we're treading in dangerous water as a, as a public entity to start making requirements that don't really exist in that, quite frankly, you're treading on some legality issues until it becomes some sort of law. I, you know, basically saying if you don't do this. You're not going to do this. If you do this, we're going to do this. I think we're I think we're we got to be careful with it. And I would say that where we're in a minimal, a very minimal issue right now, how many children tested positive during the summer school program for staff members?
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No.

[11793-120] Mimi Rhimes | School counselor, Stevens High School, and summer school coordinator ( | 2021-08-04
PREV> Mimi Rhimes: sometimes text messages with my school Google phone. Throughout the end of June. So I know everyone loves numbers. So we had 137 students were invited to come and recover 200 credits, and I had 100 students confirmed they were going to attend summer school.
TEXT> And this is just the attendance average. So week one, we had about 80 students. We two, we had 67, and week three we had 55. And it's actually a good thing that number is going down, believe it or not. So this is as of today we've recovered 76 credits.  English has recovered 23. Social studies have recovered, 19, science has recovered two, digital technologies recovered six, Spanish recovered five and math is recovered 21. And then there are 12 students have recovered more than one credit. So the way we have it set up this year is not the kind of take no offense, but if Nick is in summer school and he has to do like math and English, we're having him finish English and then go do math. And so some students are able to get multiple credits, throughout their time in summer school, depending on how still working and how often they show up and if they're staying the whole time and on task. We've had students who have just been getting it done, which is great. Abby Group has been amazing to us this summer.  I talked to Willey before school got out and I said, hey, any chance you could provide like bag lunches for the kids every day? And he's like, I'll do you one better. And so we have a breakfast card upstairs with like, hot breakfast sandwiches. Sometimes we have pancakes. It's been delicious.
NEXT> Mimi Rhimes: And I love school lunches, most of you know. And then he's been throwing smoothies, milk, juices, sandwiches, pizza slices, chips. So there's snacks for the kids all day, which

[11793-121] Mimi Rhimes | School counselor, Stevens High School, and summer school coordinator ( | 2021-08-04
PREV> Mimi Rhimes: and I said, hey, any chance you could provide like bag lunches for the kids every day? And he's like, I'll do you one better. And so we have a breakfast card upstairs with like, hot breakfast sandwiches. Sometimes we have pancakes. It's been delicious.
TEXT> And I love school lunches, most of you know.  And then he's been throwing smoothies, milk, juices, sandwiches, pizza slices, chips. So there's snacks for the kids all day, which has been a huge,  incentive, I think, for them to kind of be on task and get things done, you know, they just need a break to go get an apple and go back and get their work done. That's what they do. So there's fruit. And I have to say, the kids have been amazing about cleaning up. We've had very minimal messes in classrooms, the whole time, which has been great. Next slide. And then we have Field Trip Fridays,  which is like a reward for students if they do well during the week.  Week one  Patrick, Bumblebee and Maple Lane. So I had to go to a wedding in Maine. Week two we went hiking in unity with Dawn from Sullivan County.  Week three, which was this past Friday. We went to an escape room a time out. We did not solve the puzzle, but they were very close,  and Nick was very impressed with how well they did with that. And I was also impressed too, because I had no idea what they were doing. So. And then week four, which is this Friday, we were going to sign up for a beach day, and it's supposed to be two degrees and sunny.
NEXT> Mimi Rhimes: Hopefully almost think that's it, that any questions for me about our summer school program?

[11793-124] Mimi Rhimes | School counselor, Stevens High School, and summer school coordinator ( | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: So, how many seniors?
TEXT> So in terms of the infamous group of 30? Yeah.  So I went from this group of 30. So we had one student recover  his English credit, and he's now a graduate student, which is amazing.  And then we've had we have a lot of rising seniors who are  who are now seniors this year who are,  able to kind of get back on track a little bit more for senior year, which has been amazing. So and the kids and also we have a couple  athletes who have been there as well, getting ready for fall sports, who want to make sure they get back on their respective teams and fields. This fall.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I got the sample, some of the Abbey Group food and you're right, it's.

[11793-134] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Next is Stevens High School. Graduation rate. Follow up.
TEXT> I see some familiar faces. I'm Nicole Gordon. I am the assistant principal at Stevens, and I'm just going into my second year now. So  we had a few trends that we wanted to highlight for all of you this evening and then,  address our completion and non completion rates this year and then talk a little bit about the interventions that we have been using and what we're hoping to employ in the future to see these numbers. The number of non completions decrease  and raise our graduation and completion rate. So  before we get into the completion and graduation question,  one of the things we wanted to highlight is how our students are choosing who do graduate are choosing to, move forward into the world beyond Stevens High School. And so, as you can see, with 2019 on the right going up to 2021, just this past year on the left,  we've seen a pretty steady increase.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: Students who are electing to or an increase overall in students who are electing to pursue post-secondary, either in a four year or two year school, based on our understanding

[11793-140] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: School there in the two year. Yeah. So it was.
TEXT> Next slide. And so sort of dovetailing into that 71%,  we are also finding there is an increased number of students earning college credit while they are enrolled at Stevens. This is a number that covers  mostly juniors and seniors. You'll get the occasional sophomore  to disaggregate the graduating senior data was fairly difficult.  But we're seeing that when we're looking at opportunities like,  community college enrollment. So River Valley or other institutions taking advantage of our Running Start programs that we have currently at  Stevens and our AP offerings, we're seeing the  number of students taking advantage of those opportunities increasing. I know that we are going to,  have a brand new running start economics class  coming in the 2122 school year. I believe statistics was a new program this past school year. So we're really excited to be strengthening that partnership with River Valley and having our teachers able to deliver those opportunities to our students.  And although 91 was our count for this past school year, we also wanted to note that several students are taking more than one class,  to earn college credit. But there are 91 this past year who earned at least one.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: So, that that all being said, one of the things that we really dug into was completion or graduation. Especially sort of in light of Miss Berry's statement during graduation

[11793-144] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: of them were offered a summer school or summer credit recovery opportunity. And I think one additional student, in addition to the one who has already completed his degree through summer credit recovery, is taking advantage of that. But it was offered to more students.
TEXT> Four of the students were enrolled in adult editor for the duration of the year because they are under the age of 18. They also show up on our Stevens High School rolls. And so they're counted in that that graduation number.  Then we have sort of this category of students that's dropped into or that's divided into two. We have students who were dropped, and I can talk about that in just one moment.  And then students who withdraw withdrew of their own accord. So we had three students who came in, and despite  all the counseling that are still school counselors and administrators and  staff had given them, made the made the choice to withdraw. And then there were 16 who were dropped,  due to. A variety of factors. Right. But they were 18 years old.  They had chronic and sustained absences. They had demonstrated failure to progress, and they weren't physically showing up,  whether it was for in-person learning or their remote option.  This isn't something that we do lightly. And this number, I believe, is increased over past years. These are students who we have tried every intervention and tool in our toolbox to try to engage, to try to, to get to come to school.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: And for these students, for a variety of reasons, we weren't able to get them there. These are students where teachers, school counselors, administration are reaching out on a regular

[11793-145] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: option. This isn't something that we do lightly. And this number, I believe, is increased over past years. These are students who we have tried every intervention and tool in our toolbox to try to engage, to try to, to get to come to school.
TEXT> And for these students, for a variety of reasons,  we weren't able to get them there. These are students where  teachers, school counselors, administration are reaching out on a regular basis.  We are engaging with them through our, attendance committee process, where, you know, we've got our school social worker involved. We've got our children, see officer involved in these our students that were just not able to reach. And then we have two down toward the bottom,  who are going to be granted the ability to continue,  whether for a medical or a personal family situation. So we're anticipating that one of them will be done.  At the end of first semester. So by January 2022, and the other is slated to complete and graduate at the end of the 2122 school year. So,  I made reference to some of the interventions that we engage in,  to really help these kids get to the finish line.  You know, we start at kind of our what I might think of are as our most basic. We are  in  contact with home teachers. Like I said,  school counselors, administration reaching out and, you know, trying to understand the why of of what's going on for these students.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: We also have the academic resource center and after school tutoring. We have our handful of staff who will engage in home visits for those hard to reach families. Our

[11793-148] Nicole Gordon | Assistant Principal, Stevens High School (self-ID 'I'm Nicole Gordon.  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Nicole Gordon: really taken up the mantle on Job Corps. Referrals. We do. And really, she's kind of the point person. And our school counselors are doing a really good job of talking to families about what adult education looks like, what job Corps might look like.
TEXT> Some families aren't interested and really want to see their their student finish in a more traditional manner.  But those are always options that we put out there. And then we have our summer credit recovery program, which, as  Mimi has just shown us, has been pretty successful this year and helping our students to get that much closer to the finish line. That said,  there are some strategies that we've come up with and some programmatic needs that we've identified.  So one of the things that we realized that we are hoping will be remedied in large part with our new grade reporting system, is that we we have room to improve our communication and progress around progress and student achievement. So  one of the things that our new grade reporting system is going to do is help,  our teachers and our staff to more accurately and in a more timely fashion, identify who those at risk students are  based on academic achievement. We're going to really be able to see trends more closely with our new grading grade reporting system. And so we're optimistic. Pardon me that that is going to improve our ability to intervene early.  And it was definitely something that was in the forefront of our minds when we were making recommendations and decisions.  One of the things that I think we have a really great opportunity for is building a stronger partnership with adult education.
NEXT> Nicole Gordon: One of the things that we had identified this year as something we could do better and we're working toward is that, we have some time. Sometimes we've made referrals,

[11793-153] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Heather Whitney: Were talking.
TEXT> Four years ago and there was some budget cuts and a position was changed, the director's position was eliminated.  We had to make some staffing changes. And for a  total cluster of reasons, we had to shut down the Alt program November 7th of that year and reabsorbed those 16 students back into Stevens High School.  And they had been  upstairs. And a lot of them were very hands on learners. They loved having access to the kitchen. They were making breakfast for each other or for the whole group.  We had, you know, plans for an afternoon co-op kind of  experiences for them. And what we knew about these 16 students, through the application process and through working with the families, was that they were not successful at Stevens High School, in the physical building,  that that kind of traditional academic approach did not work for these kids. And these kids had every risk factor and every red, red flag attached to them for being potential non-compliant.  And so,  you know, and the bottom line is that not a single one of those 16 students ended up graduating from Stevens High School for a variety of reasons. And, you know, we can prognosticate and we can talk about what the challenges that those students had, whether they would have if the old program had continued, if they would have still graduated even with the program.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: But but we know that what we don't have is an alternative opportunity for students of high, high risk. And we know that, it works when it's in an alternative

[11793-154] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: High School for a variety of reasons. And, you know, we can prognosticate and we can talk about what the challenges that those students had, whether they would have if the old program had continued, if they would have still graduated even with the program.
TEXT> But but we know  that what we don't have is an alternative opportunity for students of high, high risk. And we know that,  it works when it's in an alternative site where different kinds of programing and dedicated staff, full time staff can work with these students. And it's not for everyone. It's not a regular teaching gig, and it takes a certain kind of individual,  to to work with this population. But when you have the right staff, it is a phenomenal thing.  I would just if we put it in here because those kids would have been in that graduating class potentially. And I really want to kind of keep that as a topic of conversation moving forward for one of  the real,  gaps that we have in what we can offer to a significant population at the high school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So that's that.

[11793-165] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (Gordon 'I want to defer to Pat' [247-2 | 2021-08-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Coming onto the average. But Frank, in one year, 25% of the graduating class were alternative program students. So just thinking that's one metric.
TEXT> I right when it was the  when it was the Odyssey program and we and students we had 15 morning session students, 15 afternoon session students that was also housed here in the tech center. And then all of those students, you could only be a junior or a senior. You had to have at least 13 credits to qualify. And you were again, the traditional classroom wasn't working for you, and you came and you did all your coursework through Odyssey where and then you had an afternoon kind of, co-op experience. There were a number of things that that fell through with that program as well. It was a good option for  students at that time. You know, that's a whole nother conversation as to why that was dismantled. But that year, 2014 spring of 2014, 24% of the graduating class were graduating from the Owls program.
NEXT> Steven Horsky: Okay. A follow up question onto this again. Sorry, guys. No. Are these more hands on learners? Like, are we talking like a kid that wants to bang a hammer

[11793-170] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls the meeting to order [1]; runs age | 2021-08-04
PREV> Patricia Barry: It was downstairs originally, right across from Alex's office.
TEXT> Yeah, computer lab there. And it went for several more years. And the graduation rates were, as Ben suggests, there was substantial.  And as Pat said, the what what it was was kids came down. Many kids who were almost. But the profile, what we did when we were writing the grant. I went and I toured a school in Rochester, Littleton. I went all over the state touring alternative programs, interviewing kids that were in those programs and trying in order to write the grant. So I do identify my target crew. And then what was I going to match? A program to address what was their needs? And I still have all my planning materials, by the way. But,  the overwhelming issue with these kids was school phobia overwhelming? They did not like being in school. They were smart, but they had a tendency to be very withdrawn and  and would act out when one cornered, but just really were uncomfortable in the physical environment. And as Pat says, the ideal environment for them is off campus. Yeah.
NEXT> Ben Nester: So. And can I make one more comment to just to put in a plug for this. You know, it's, a school of, you know, the size of Stevens High

[11793-172] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member (chair: 'Heather and I've been talking'  | 2021-08-04
PREV> Ben Nester: the seacoast. Every high school. That's that's this saw that's just this size. That's not, you know, a Windham or something has an alternative program. So that's just my strong recommendation to, you know, everyone in the room that we get something back online ASAP.
TEXT> My only or one of my concerns, which may seem a little Machiavellian, is that although we're targeting graduation as our goal, it sounds like it's possible that these kids are not being prepared to actually function in a in a real world setting. And I don't know if there's a program or a way to integrate them so that they develop the coping skills to be able to manage what would be considered a standard environment. So if you understand what I'm saying, I do.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's as Pat said, though they would. Part of the requirement was that they would go to some other thing. The other half of the day, they were in their

