[10722-247] Richard Seaman | Assistant Superintendent for Finance, Operations and Human Resources,  | 2020-02-01
PREV> Tracy Pope: Thank you so much.
TEXT> If I could and I. I'm in favor of this exactly for the reason that was raised. There was someone who came along and came up here and said, how can I know what my budget is going to be for the next year? I'm trying to plan out two years, three years. What we know is over the past number of years, when the bus breaks, we have no choice but to replace it. So we don't have control over the budget coming out in the future. These are monies that will eliminate those surprises. So when the bus breaks in next year, or the year after the year after, we don't have to come to the taxpayers and say, dig in your pockets and give us some money for our kids to get to school. We have the money put aside when we're getting it from the state so we can answer that question. That's the same thing we have on this and this article. It's the same thing we have on the next article. How do we have a greater idea of what our budget is going to be over the next two, three, four, five years by putting away these reserves?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: We don't have to come back and watch the taxpayers and say, we please vote on it when there's actually no choice whatsoever of what the vote needs to be.

[10722-322] Tracy Pope | Claremont School District Moderator (addressed as 'Tracy' [312] and 'M | 2020-02-01
PREV> Unidentified: Moderators like to make a motion to adjourn.
TEXT> This concludes tonight's meeting. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your opinions tonight and remind you that all of these warrant articles will be placed on the second district meeting, which is held March 10th 19.
NEXT> 

[10768-27] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: table this until our next our next meeting. Thank you. So we have tonight we have the Claremont Early Childhood Program with us for presentation. And so I don't know how many of you are a part of that. But if you'd like to proceed.
TEXT> Hi, everybody. I'm Paige Jarvis. I'm the director of the Claremont Early Childhood program. I'm just going to give you a little overview, and then I'm going to have my I'm going to introduce the teachers, and they're going to come up and we're going to show you a table life of a preschooler for one of our activities that we did. So,  we offer preschool,  an Am and a PM class for 3 to 5 year olds or three entering kindergarten.  And we are open to  all of the Claremont community. So but once we're full, we we're full. We cap at 12 kids a class. We're at  almost 90 kids right now. So we're we're got access to 90 kids. We are  working on social emotional development. We are working on academics and early learning skills.  We use creative curriculum, which is,  meets up to the New Hampshire standards in early learning. So we're working on all of those things.  So and the impact that we have on kindergarten is tremendous, in my opinion. We  have our kids far more ready for kindergarten if they come to us.
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: We offer breakfast and lunch to our morning, and we offer lunch to our afternoon kids. We access the community center on Monday afternoons and the kids rotate through the

[10768-28] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Paige Jarvis: up to the New Hampshire standards in early learning. So we're working on all of those things. So and the impact that we have on kindergarten is tremendous, in my opinion. We have our kids far more ready for kindergarten if they come to us.
TEXT> We offer breakfast and lunch to our morning, and we offer lunch to our afternoon kids. We access the community center on Monday afternoons and the kids rotate through the classrooms.  Either swimming, the gym, the track,  just the in the community. It's really nice to be over there. We added a fourth classroom this year, so we're growing, which is wonderful. And so I'm going to turn over to the teachers  and I'm going to introduce the teachers. And they're going to tell you a little bit about what we did. And it was a lot of fun. You guys are wearing the hats that they made. So  we have Terry Zullo. She's in one of the classrooms. Kelly Provost, Christina Sanford and Cindy Roberts. So if you guys want to come up and you can talk a little bit, and then if you have any questions, you can ask them.
NEXT> Unidentified: So we were actually hoping to have some preschoolers here today to present, but with schedule changes and it's hard to get kids, you know, with out of their bedtime

[10768-29] Unidentified | Unidentified - Claremont Early Childhood Program preschool teacher (on | 2020-03-04
PREV> Paige Jarvis: made. So we have Terry Zullo. She's in one of the classrooms. Kelly Provost, Christina Sanford and Cindy Roberts. So if you guys want to come up and you can talk a little bit, and then if you have any questions, you can ask them.
TEXT> So we were actually hoping to have some preschoolers here today to present, but with schedule changes and it's hard to get kids, you know, with out of their bedtime routine. So next best thing, we did a little presentation today and taped it for you guys to see. We do a lot of learning in preschool to prepare our kids for kindergarten. And really, our children are learning all domains all the time. They're learning through play. We have a whole child approach. So in one short activity that we did with kids, they are learning how to count number sequencing, recognizing numbers. We're learning new  vocabulary rhyming and literacy. We're learning about the geography of Antarctica. We are learning about penguin habitats. We're learning how to work in small and large groups and how to take direction from adults. We're learning how to sequence  steps. If we're teaching them how to do a penguin hat, and its first this, then this, they're learning how to follow directions.  Fine motor skills. These lovely penguins up here, they did every piece of cutting themselves. So we're working on strengthening our fine motor skills, which will help for writing when they get to kindergarten. We are working on gross motor skills. You'll see in the video when we're doing a dance. They're working on skills that they're still developing, jumping, skipping all of those things.  We're introducing cause and effect through this story. You have the lyrics there.
NEXT> Unidentified: Something happens to this penguin, then something happens to this penguin. They're learning some, storytelling cause and effect. We're working on recalling details, memorization of rhyming and so much more.

[10768-36] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Head preschool. Very nice.
TEXT> Is that all of your kids? How many kids have you got?
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: That was all of our afternoon kids. So I think we had 36. We said. Or 30? No, we had 39 today.

[10768-41] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: Other questions.
TEXT> Is there any data that tells us how early intervention impacts children beyond kindergarten?
NEXT> Paige Jarvis: There's tons of information out there on that. Yeah, that, just I mean, really, they do their most growth from birth to three. I mean, think about the amazing amount

[10768-47] Paige Jarvis | Director, Claremont Early Childhood Program | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: At it on the data we did have, which was on some not standardized screening measures. But we purchased a test called the Brigance Pages referencing for kindergarten and pre-K so that we can have truly quantitative info moving forward.
TEXT> We also use the asks for all of our kids it's ages and stages questionnaire, and we have social emotional. And then we also have the academic asks parents feel those out starting and then it's continued on through kindergarten.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Thank you.

[10768-57] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Thank you. Thank you for that. Pretty well sir.
TEXT> Okay. We'll transition to our the general business part of our meeting.  That means that our student rep report is due.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Not just.

[10768-62] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-03-04
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: I am in this play and it's a pretty funny play. On March 21st, the Student Voice will be hosting the Student Voice Conference at the high school from 8 to 2 p.m., with students attending from all across New Hampshire for Claremont Middle School.
TEXT> The project, the eighth grade project based learning group called Destination Boston, is hosting As We Ready Dinner on Friday, March 6th from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in The Sims Cafeteria. Proceeds will help fund this year's class trip to Boston. Please come in and join an evening meal and help support our students. Congratulations to Anya Bandy and eighth grader for winning the CMS geography B the competition was fierce, and stay tuned for an update later this month without her regional  eligibility for bluff and doesn't add, there was nothing known until April. From April, I have a tweet across America a week for all of the schools. So it's about Doctor Seuss. I'm not too sure about what's going on, but I know there's a bunch of themed days.  And for the sun and there's nothing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions or comments. I actually have a couple. I want to make sure this is the former, guidance student services person throwing in a plug the for the financial aid

[10768-91] Mrs. Chesney | Stevens High School teacher; head advisor, Youth in Government (surnam | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: All right. Done.
TEXT> This part of youth and government ever. Nancy always took care of it for me. But now I'm the head advisor for youth in government this year.  So basically, in a nutshell, in my crass way, I'm here to ask for the blessing  to let youth in government go for their overnight trip this year.  And I brought a couple.
NEXT> Unidentified: Pictures for you to see what we can. We've been going to using.

[10768-95] Mrs. Chesney | Stevens High School teacher; head advisor, Youth in Government (surnam | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: I think, for over.
TEXT> 20 years. I know that Nancy took it over 18 years ago, the same year that I started at Stevens, and we've been going ever since. And I think that I'm not sure if Tom Tonioli had it before her or who had it before Nancy. But we've been going to youth in government for at least 18 years that I know of. We've never had any problems.  They have people  as part of the YMCA that go and monitor the hallways  all night long  at the hotel,  and make sure that there's no trouble. They have strict rules. The students have to sign a contract of their conduct, you know, saying that they know that they need to be responsible for their actions and that they will act accordingly. This year we hosted the  caucus where Newport and Kearsarge came to Stevens High School. And the students elect each other to different positions that we are given by the YMCA. And we did phenomenal. This year  we have 24 students going to youth in government total this year from Stevens and had many kids pick up position. Prescott Herzog  ran and got the senator position.
NEXT> Mrs. Chesney: We have three lobbyists Alicia Webster, Josh Treadway and Liberty Lamon. One of the positions I've never seen come to youth in government we got this year is Clark and

[10768-96] Mrs. Chesney | Stevens High School teacher; head advisor, Youth in Government (surnam | 2020-03-04
PREV> Mrs. Chesney: to different positions that we are given by the YMCA. And we did phenomenal. This year we have 24 students going to youth in government total this year from Stevens and had many kids pick up position. Prescott Herzog ran and got the senator position.
TEXT> We have three lobbyists Alicia Webster, Josh Treadway and Liberty Lamon.  One of the positions I've never seen come to youth in government we got this year is Clark  and Lauren. Fellows will be the House clerk on the House floor in Concord this year.  Reading bills. So we're training her because it's her first year. And she took on Clark, which I'm really excited for her. We have Gabby Savo and Caitlin Cox in in the press corps.  Carly Barrett got Health and Human Services chair. And Phil Mason, who's been quietly in youth in government for 3 or 4 years,  ended up getting co-chair of House Agriculture and Forestry. And then Nathan Savo  got the position of Supreme Court judge. So we did phenomenal at the caucus this year and  got a lot of positions. So I'm really excited for our kids. Riley has been part of Youth in government for three years now.  She's going to be she's a senior this year. So it's her last year. Last year she had two bills read on the floor, which is unprecedented. I've never seen. We usually have one kid, maybe two kids that will get a bill on the floor, but never the same kid who got two bills right on the floor. And she was great.  When she spoke to her bill on the floor.  But, unless you have any other any questions, be happy to answer them. You can talk to Riley.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Questions for Mrs. Chesney.

[10768-107] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: end of the year and will be drive. It will be a five year plan, for the next 3 to 5 years as a general framework. And then each year we will have specific follow up of those themes that are emerging from the plan.
TEXT> Okay. So, entry plans in general. We have to have achieved  outcomes and everything pertaining to student achievement and student outcomes and opportunities for everyone within the Saw.  And there's been committee work stakeholder groups. We've already developed a special advisory council. We also want to develop. And one of the things that came over the presentation of a potential looking at the elementary restructure. One of the things that came out of it that was really positive is we knew that we still had to hear from the community, which we did. And we now have an  assistant superintendent. Magoon is is following up with that committee as well. Listening to people, we have names, we have community members. And that was a that's a driver also for the strategic plan, because we started looking at at other types of feedback loops in participatory opportunities for  residents and students, in community members to help give us feedback on on what we're doing. And and I'll speak to that in a little bit about, Superintendent Advisory Council that we want to have and also the school councils. That is going to be that that is coming up. All right. So the timeline and I will publish all of this on the on the web.  We should be reporting out of the findings of the committees in March and April coming up really fast.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: This whole year is going lightning round. We'll have the timeline and action steps for for the next five years. Very general action steps and deliverables. And then we'll have

[10768-108] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: is going to be that that is coming up. All right. So the timeline and I will publish all of this on the on the web. We should be reporting out of the findings of the committees in March and April coming up really fast.
TEXT> This whole year is going lightning round.  We'll have the timeline and action steps for for the next five years. Very general action steps and deliverables.  And then we'll have the timeline for next year, for May and June. That will drive our planning over the summer with the administrative team. And then each school we're looking for. And I want to clarify this for the people at home. This is not replacing any of our existing structures. We have amazing PTO, OS and booster groups and other types of groups already. These are councils where we are going to have equal representation of the school with 4 or 5 members of the school with the principal, teachers and counselors. And we're also looking for committed parents, of which we have many in the community to play a part of that,  that school council as well, and help to deliver, particularly on the community outreach in the other goals that the school establishes, all of which all of those goals will be around expanding and supporting student achievement. Okay. And whether that's social, academic and other types of achievement. And you'll see more of this, more of a of the template of this in the upcoming presentations. Okay.  So we will have year long school improvement plans where we're looking at performance targets for students, as well as other general community goals that will allow align to the to the other strategic plan  in the Advisory Council.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: You will be hearing from this as we meet with the with the principals. You'll be seeing this in school newsletters and just ask ask around. Over the next couple

[10768-110] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And I know that we presented this. Again I'm just trying to refresh everyone's memory. Teacher supporting encouraging teaching and learning throughout Claremont. And those are the other bulleted points that the committees have been working on this year. And social emotional learning in general.
TEXT> And that that is also going to continue. This is a major thread that is going to continue next year.  The curriculum  staff under the  leadership of Donna McGowan, they are already setting up presentations and seminars and micro credentialing courses. All these things are all underway already for next year. It's pretty exciting work. All right. These are the other committees that we've posted of all the other people participating. These are the six areas that have emerged. Okay. And I mentioned the first one, learning and teaching at six to improve student achievement. At the focus of it, that that is our goal. This is going to be what drives everything within that strand initiative. And it's the most important thing. It's why we're in the business. Increasing student time on learning. So that's the not only is that literally the actual time in the calendar, how we use that time. It also has to do with the time spent with in courses, in classes, in scheduling, how many? We have a scheduling committee meeting on that too. Well, how much time should we be meeting for each subject area? All of those  types  of concerns are being vetted.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're also looking at the time that it takes for staff development, professional development in the day. Other types of initiatives, all of those things that lead to student achievement

[10768-111] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to do with the time spent with in courses, in classes, in scheduling, how many? We have a scheduling committee meeting on that too. Well, how much time should we be meeting for each subject area? All of those types of concerns are being vetted.
TEXT> We're also looking at the time that it takes for staff development, professional development in the day. Other types of initiatives, all of those things that lead to student achievement outcomes.  This we're really excited about in the particularly with the up coming vote. Okay. For the budget, we worked hard to negotiate for contracts so that we could keep and retain the best and the brightest teachers, paraprofessionals, custodians and secretaries. And we feel confident that we will and we feel confident now that our salaries are competitive and the like that we're going to keep we're going to attract more folks. And we're also  aggressively going, starting in just a couple of weeks. We're going on recruiting tours and all the teaching colleges and in the in the area to get  to look for the best and the brightest for next year staffing. And we know that we have some retirements, we know that we have some turnover. And we obviously we know that we have the four new budgeted positions at the middle school. So we want to get out early and we want to actively seek out the best and the brightest for those school safety efforts, again, working with the police and fire departments for that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We are working on the special ed programs and programing at the s a year now, and we spoke about those specific programs where we're looking for the autism, and

[10768-112] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: we have the four new budgeted positions at the middle school. So we want to get out early and we want to actively seek out the best and the brightest for those school safety efforts, again, working with the police and fire departments for that.
TEXT> We are working on the special ed programs and programing at the s a year now, and we spoke about those specific programs  where we're looking for the autism, and we're also looking to bring back some elements of the  other support programs as well, like like pride in the Pride Classroom at Maple and the alternative program at the high school as well, looking at all those things. But in addition, and maybe even before we look at a lot of those programs, we're also looking for supports that have been identified that our students need so that they don't need those programs so that they stay closest to the mainstream curriculum, and so that we don't have to have these other supports after the fact, as people alluded to before. But if we have the support, social emotional support, other types of interventions earlier, as you heard in the early childhood presentation, we know that we can sure up the students for the full run academic run. So,  and the governance structure that I was just talking about is with the to have school councils with articulated goals for each year and to have representation on those councils, in addition to all the benefits we have of our existing toes.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I know it's a speed round, but we have a full agenda today. Sorry with that teaching and learning. We are looking to start the practice of instructional rounds. We

[10768-135] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Right on the front page of what's happening.
TEXT> We don't have any overseas trips coming up in the immediate future for any of our kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: No, no.

[10768-163] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: For the.
TEXT> Past period of time is trying to wrap my arms around the financial review of the school district as it relates to our whole food process.  I'm  getting an awful lot of information, which is good. I've been given access to a lot of information that I didn't have before, and historical information as it relates to how many kids are eating the different meals. And what's interesting is not a lot of our kids are eating breakfast, and not a lot of our kids are reading lunch,  but  also in conversation with other business managers around our area to try and get an idea. Are we different or are we not on that one? Because this allows us to then build a real financial model that says, you know, if only 35% of our high school students are going to be eating lunch, then it tells us what we're going to have as far as financial resources to continue to provide. Are we providing for courses or five courses or what is it will be looking to provide going forward?  We are seeing a very significant drop off in breakfast, being eaten in our buildings, and a lot of that, I think, is unintended consequences  of decisions that are made in each one of the buildings. What are the kids do when they come in and when can they get in the building?
NEXT> Richard Seaman: How do we get the breakfast down to the students more easily? That one should be really almost a slam dunk from our point of view. If we've got 35%

[10768-164] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Richard Seaman: in breakfast, being eaten in our buildings, and a lot of that, I think, is unintended consequences of decisions that are made in each one of the buildings. What are the kids do when they come in and when can they get in the building?
TEXT> How do we get the breakfast down to the students more easily?  That one should be really almost a slam dunk from our point of view. If we've got 35% of our kids who are on free and reduced, we should at least be at 35% on that one. There are some decisions that were made in our policy, such as not being willing to or or not having coffee served, for example, at the high school. And so what's happening is a lot of our kids are getting coffee elsewhere. They're bringing it to school. They're sitting in the classroom with their coffee, but we can't have it. And therefore there's not the incentive for them to come get coffee from Abby group and breakfast at the same time. So it's things like this that I think are worthy of a fair amount of more conversation. As far as is that where we want to be? How are we handling some of the decisions that we're making as a school district and that our building leaders are making? So what I'd like to be able to do is come back to the board with a more in-depth financial discussion  of really what what makes our food service work. What, for example, has been the impact of being totally free within bluff?  And what has that done to us? I've been asked the question by, I think, a couple of different board members.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: If we decide we want to give up all of our federal reimbursement money. What does that do to us? And, you know, it's a it's a good question. I

[10768-180] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: But this is this is proposed legislation at the state level that we're monitoring.
TEXT> May I ask also, is there a willingness or an interest to have Abby Group come here for one of the board meetings? There's a lot of discussion of what's being served, and it's either good or bad or tasty or not tasty. Whatever. Is there any interest of having them come? Somebody from the high school or one of the cooks from the middle school, and basically what the kids got that day, they share with us. So and I don't know if we've done that before, but a little it'll eliminate some of this. It's good, it's bad. It's whatever it might be.
NEXT> Jason Benware: We did that last year. They brought us some really nice cookies.

[10768-203] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Jason Benware: In the policy that was made.
TEXT> It is. And again, again, we can bring that back. But and the challenge, of course, when you walk around the school in the mornings and you look in the classrooms, they're all sitting there either with their companies or their Dunkin Donuts coffees on their desk. So it's not that the kids aren't getting caffeinated drinks, they're just not getting them within our structure.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And so the policy says we cannot offer caffeinated drinks or we cannot have caffeinated drinks in the store.

[10768-212] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: We should have.
TEXT> If you look in your latest legislative update from the School Board Association, and you actually get on and look through them, a representative has proposed, allowing  us as a district to take uneaten food, freeze it, and then give it back to the kids to take home with them over the weekend. So that's that's actually if you look, you'll see it's in there, the latest email we got. So it's an interesting things if you I like looking through there because it's so many of them parallel. Will you talk about.
NEXT> Jason Benware: What would be really good. Because if we were prepared and we had a bunch of questions we came up with and we provided them to the Abbey group.

[10768-243] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: to implement, implement the rules. And, we have certain guidance documents in place, but there's more guidance documents coming in. I'll touch on that in a minute. And then we're still waiting for clarity on two key issues. So here's the good news. The new.
TEXT> Rules are very clear that. They've gone back to the way things used to be, which was what we wanted. That speech and language pathologists, physical therapists, occupational therapists can order their own services within the scope of their practice. Right. So we don't have to rely on an MD or someone like that to order. And then Bill and then subsequently Bill for those services in that accounts for a portion of what of what we submit claims for, not the largest portion. It's not the lion's share. I want to point that out. Medical doctors April ends. Physicians assistants can and must order other services, at least currently under the law. And the guidance documents, such as paraprofessionals or rehab assistance, nursing, and then a few other less common billable services. As I mentioned in the timeline there, there. Are. There are two key unresolved issues that came up at the stakeholder meeting yesterday in Concord.  One is around when an MD, Orders a service. Does the medical doctor have to have a face to face evaluation of the child before he orders the service, which we can then bill for right?  Or can the medical doctor review documentation say the kid's IEP, review it, sign the order. Right. That that question was raised by one of my colleagues. The the thinking at the time.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And there was there was a variety of different licensing boards there yesterday. One of them was I think it's the New Hampshire Medical Licensing Board. He was a medical

[10768-245] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Oh, yeah. There we go. It's supposed to emphasize item two. So paraprofessionals or rehabilitative assistance as they're referred to sort of on the Medicaid side of things. Account for the lion's share of our, of our Medicaid billable services that we have historically recouped.
TEXT> Right. We get a lot of money for those services. The and I asked this question directly yesterday because under the emergency rules, it limited what a rehab assistant could be billed for to to it really narrowed it to something like personal care. That was some of the original language in one of the drafts. So if a child needs say, example maybe like bathroom support, right. We could bill for that as a medically necessary service.  If that if we were limited to that work that a paraprofessional does, we wouldn't be able to get much in, you know, reimbursement. Right. So, what the new guidance documents are going to do  are hopefully provide us in the field a little guidance on that and broaden that definition  of what a paraprofessional does that is billable. And I do and I do. I don't want to be alarmist here. I think that's going to be I think it's going to go in our favor. One of the Department of Health and Human Services, workers there was did some work in the field. She went out to several different school districts around the state and actually spent time in the schools seeing what paraprofessionals do, the way they implement services.
NEXT> Ben Nester: You know, for kids. And she had a she sort of was nodding and affirming that, yes, you know, they do a lot more. And we should be able to

[10768-264] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Ben Nester: Yeah, yeah. Right now it's free. Right.
TEXT> So my last, point, I went to the last MSP meeting here in town, and Susan was there, and,  they actually provided us with a sheet of paper, defining medically necessary in the context of rehab assistance. It was pretty inclusive. Yeah. And it's everything that really what we were have been. If the student needs help with organization,  help with behavior management in the class. These were all  were all accepted as medically necessary interventions for rehab assistant. So I'm hoping that they're right. That, Yeah. And I'm sure they were there yesterday. They were so.
NEXT> Ben Nester: Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.

[10768-287] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Steve Moss: the country have programs that are similar to this sort of or Grow Your Own teacher program, where we allow students to get a sense of what it's like to be a teacher, to find out if that's a career path that that interested in.
TEXT> We start discussing some of the concepts about child development with them. We get into the psychology of it, and it's pretty interesting because sometimes the kids go, oh, that's why teacher does this, that and it's it's kind of information for one kids. It's a really exciting opportunity we can do there. We also added a Newport business program. The Newport CTE  has had a business program for quite some time. We haven't advertised it in our own POS, so we included that for the sake of advertising their program with our contractual agreement that we have with them. So that's just was put in there  at the high school. A couple changes are we're creating the web and print design program, sort of updating that and taking two classes and combining it together to do web and print design. It's something that they wanted to do to kind of sort of modernize the program, update a little bit for technology that has been changed. And then the really big one is changing the intro to career readiness and college and career readiness, and adding Navy and Navy. ONS is a it's a college application program, and you can speak more to that. Yeah, sure. Why don't you.
NEXT> Unidentified: Speak more? Step right. Yeah. I'm ready. Colonel, I'm one of the school counselors, by the way. So really quick Navy is a it started off as a college program.

[10768-297] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: It's the program. It said yeah.
TEXT> Okay. Another change is the addition of structured language course. This is of course for struggling readers and writers. And currently we have a fundamentals biology course. And this course is sort of for those same children, but based at for reading and writing, sort of an English level course for them.  There is a need for that. So we, we really want to make sure that that was available for our students.  A big change with the math is this, changing the accelerated algebra. So now they're going to we're going to have a, a general algebra one, an intermediate sort of p course and honors course. And so there is one thing. I mean, it took me about six months to really figure out the difference between what algebra one was and accelerated algebra one and pre-algebra. And this one was half a year and this one was a whole year. And so it was very confusing even for me. I would agree in it, still couldn't figure it out. So we've kind of gone to streamline this program and offering algebra one of these three different levels. So algebra one general is going to replace pre-algebra.
NEXT> Steve Moss: So students will go from math skills one, skills two into algebra one general. Then there's going to be the college prep algebra one. And that will be an entry

[10768-298] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12 (name as self-identified at [424],  | 2020-03-04
PREV> Steve Moss: so it was very confusing even for me. I would agree in it, still couldn't figure it out. So we've kind of gone to streamline this program and offering algebra one of these three different levels. So algebra one general is going to replace pre-algebra.
TEXT> So students will go from math skills one, skills two  into algebra one general. Then there's going to be the college prep algebra one. And that will be an entry point for students that have reasonable skills in math. And then there's the honors algebra one, which will be an entry point for students that want to take more of an advanced math. All three of those classes are going to be a year long now, so that we can give that instruction. We did a survey around and found out that Fall Mountain has an  algebra A and B that they offer. It's it's a full year for each course. So we're trying to, to,  you know, allow our students to have that time that they need to really focus in on that math and help develop that. Yes, sir.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That's interrupt. But just for clarification sake. So your your introductory algebra, your basic algebra you're calling intermediate algebra, is that what you're calling? That's correct okay.

[10768-382] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-03-04
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> Maybe one in front of the high school if we can find it. CMS is there as well. That's fantastic. Congratulate school people for getting that done. But I don't want people, anybody to say, gee, I didn't know that. It's important that people get out and vote. Support your schools. Support our kids. Very important. Jason.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So there's there's been at least one article to the letter to the editor that's characterized, us as frittering away the taxpayers money. Getting getting all this money from the

[10842-242] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2020-05-06
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> So,  as a high school senior,  I obviously don't know what's going to happen with my graduation yet. I do know that the community has made us yard signs, and I want to give a shout out to Miss Porter, who is one of the most amazing people in the school district. She's been very good doing this time. I also want to say,  that remote learning is not easy, and it's not for everybody. And I want the community to really hear me on this, that it's not for every student. It's not for everybody. But reach out to your teachers if you have any issues. Parents, reach out to the futures. My teachers have been super understanding. I actually felt behind in a lot of my classes, and then they actually got me back up pretty easy. They're willing to meet with me  late at night, early in the morning, whenever my free time.  And I do want to say that there is. Is that all of the schools? If people need food from 9 to 12 every day. Monday to Friday.  And that's really it.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Great.

[10842-244] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Great.
TEXT> Thank you. Any questions for the student representative? I'm sure I have a lot, but I don't know if I don't want to hug all the time.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I I'm Tyler, I, I was on the ground. I am on the graduation committee, so. And, Mike and I touch bases today. I think you'll be happy with the

[10842-295] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of the things that were going on in terms that were going to pick up in the fall in the, hopefully. And we don't know, nothing is is determined yet as to reopening and things like that, but eventually we will be back to normal.
TEXT> And maybe a new normal, as everyone is saying.  But obviously with all the health precautions that will be needed. And, and we're, we're looking forward to some, some normalcy in interaction with the students. It's tough not not to see the kids in their, you know, energy and growth. So, the just to say the other ones that, that we, that we there obviously will be a little bit of a delay in the strategic plan because we're, we're just targeting reporting out over the next couple of weeks and kind of summarizing and pushing, some of the meetings that we in the wrap up that we had scheduled in our last meeting, if you remember, to really have a big run up in May and June, some of that might be delayed out a little bit. Some some groups aren't ready to present, but the ones that that are Will. And then we will, we will meet again obviously with the school committee as well, looking at goals and areas. And we we will resume all of those things that we've set in structure, just a temporary hiatus. So, teaching and learning was a is a big focus. In the time online and also the recruiting and retaining the teachers that is and counselors and Paris, that is one thing that is going incredibly well in this. Jamie Young in our HR department has been doing a great job.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We have actually been able to because of the positions and the budget being secured early. I get out early with, with recruiting. And, and we have a lot of

[10842-305] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member; elected Vice Chair at this meeting [96] | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Sure. Go ahead.
TEXT> There was some data that was distributed  concerning Newport's attendance,  on the online, school, etc. and they were pretty dismal. And they were having a number of seniors that were at risk for failing and not graduating. And I just was curious to know if we had any of that data, to find out where we are with that, because I think as a concern to a lot of people in the community that the kids aren't sure.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Sure.

[10842-310] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (cluster also carries some of the chair's floor  | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Be I.
TEXT> Right now, I don't have hard numbers. To to speak about, but I can't say anecdotally, as we check in a couple times a week with the entire administrative team, is that most students, most students are engaged in their participating, as as Tyler mentioned before. It's a challenge in a lot of cases. It really is. It's not not for everyone to be completely remote instantly. And and so and there's other family commitments and other types of those things have been challenging. But by and large, in, in particularly at Stevens, people are participating in some of the students who, some students who struggled before  are also some of the same struggles, and we already have them identified in the region. Pretty much the same thing in middle school, which they've they've really, aggressively, hybrid things with Google Classroom and things like that. So they're doing pretty well.  The in the elementary, it was a tough transition, but we're hearing positive things about the access there as well. So I don't have the hard numbers for you though, Heather. And we can we can look at those and try to have those for the next meeting.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I have a laundry list. Is it okay with everybody if I just kind of go through my questions and maybe I will have my questions, will answer your

[10842-364] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: What are the, rules around waivers for schools to end? And, how does that affect school systems? You know, with the dollar amount saying that a little bit so parents can understand why we wouldn't be choosing to do a waiver to end school early.
TEXT> Sure. The reason why we wouldn't need a waiver, a waiver would be for anyone that would be ending school, not completing the mandatory $990. So the state gave us the amount of hours a child should be in school at the upper level, and it was 990 hours. So based on that, with us doing with us going until June 5th and having that a half day, we would be going a little bit above the 990 hours, so we would not be required to put in a waiver in the waiver.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Which, I mean, could you really?

[10842-368] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: choose to do a waiver? I've done a little research, and I think there's like a dollar amount of to some of that. If, if schools choose to fill out a waiver and end school before their allotted hours. Do you have any on that?
TEXT> I'm not familiar with any  dollar amounts that would be allotted to that. We just wanted to make sure our kids were getting the best out of the education in the Claremont School District, so we didn't want to our kids to end school any earlier than the 990 hours. But I don't know if Mike has heard anything about money, but I have not heard anything about, us having to pay for a waiver or anything such as that.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah, I think and I, I don't, I don't know specifically and haven't heard about, I think that I haven't heard the same information that you've heard, Rebecca. But I

[10842-373] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member; Vice Chair until the election at this m | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: we don't have access to. Comcast. We're you know, we're in a DSL, pretty primitive setup compared to what other people have. So it's certainly a it's a huge issue. And I'm glad you said that, Rebecca, because I think something needs to be heard.
TEXT> Right. And I feel for people because we have a solid, pretty solid house here. And we're lucky and we're blessed that we're still working. But I just, you know, when we're talking about kids education and and going to school until June 5th because we want them to get the education. I think there's a whole pool of children out there who are excelling and who are getting the education, and they are grabbing onto it. But I also think there is a great pool of kids out there who are discouraged, and their families are breaking down and their parents are breaking down because it's not accessible. So I just want to at least make sure that we recognize that, because this is  really challenging for so many people.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Carol. Carolyn, did you want to say something?

[10842-391] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member; elected Vice Chair at this meeting [96] | 2020-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: about the discussion we've had. It's pretty, I think that that's another form of advocacy for the people that we represent is to get that so that people, they're in Washington here, not just not just people in Claremont, either. You going to say something?
TEXT> How are the children's grade overall GPA going to be affected, or how is their advancement going to be affected if they tend not to thrive in this environment? Will we be holding students back if they, you know, perform miserably during this period of time? Or. I mean. Are we going to treat it like any other school day, or is this a special circumstance? When we're going to advance children that aren't demonstrating, or how are we going to be able to ensure that the learners that are struggling now will be able to perform the next school year?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So part of the part of the requirement, Heather, is that as a curriculum team and as a district, we need to look at what our beginning of the school

[10842-393] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: and, you know, to educate those students, to bring them closer to together, as we have been all along, except now our gap, maybe a little bit bigger. And so now we need to come up with ways to put items into place to help.
TEXT> Help. Close that gap as far as the high school level goes, their their credit based so their credits would be affected by that. And we have things in place. We have teachers calling the the students.  We have the principal reaching out to the students. If that's not successful, we do have, our SRO going to the home to make sure to a well check to make sure that the students are okay  and if they need anything from us, we have a porter that's going out and visiting to see. Is there anything that we can do as a district to help you? You know, we've supplied the the  phone books. As you know,  we've also worked with a consolidation to support us and putting Wi-Fi into homes of people that did not have it. So we have been working very, very strongly with the families to make sure that it is successful. But we will have things in place once the school start to make sure that we work on closing those gaps with our kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Thank you.

[10842-396] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member; Vice Chair until the election at this m | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: You're welcome.
TEXT> So, Donna, what do we do about the kids who are like my son in his situation? Not to make this all about me, but I'm sure there's more kids like him who are having six hours a day of work in are completely discouraged, because it's taking so long to do their work and access their work. You know, that's what I'm worried about. Like, there's no way I'm not going to let him do it. But it's also extremely discouraging. And it's breaking down family dynamics because it's it's not the work that's challenging. It's the amount of effort and time it takes to put into that work. You know, for a 14 year old.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Right. Well, one of the things that we have. Well, one of the things that we did, we have sent out and we sent out guides for parents for as

[10842-397] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: to let him do it. But it's also extremely discouraging. And it's breaking down family dynamics because it's it's not the work that's challenging. It's the amount of effort and time it takes to put into that work. You know, for a 14 year old.
TEXT> Right. Well, one of the things that we have. Well, one of the things that we did, we have sent out and we sent out guides for parents for as far as remote learning, as well as the 1010 tips for parents when working with children. And one of the things that we've always said, get a hold of the teacher. We can have FaceTime with the teacher. We can look at having a pair come in and help help the students, you know, so there are things that we can we can put in place. The child should not be spending that much time on that. And if that is what's happening then, then I would reach out to the teacher and let them know what's going on. And if it's a matter of, you know, I don't know if it's the actual classwork itself, if maybe there's something that the teacher can do to assist with that. But, you know, you should not be spending that much time. We did put out how much time a child should be on doing the work, and if it's going over that we did it by grade level.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And if it does go over that, then I think that a phone call to, I mean, either a phone call because our staff do have phones that they can

[10842-398] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'Donna McGowan') | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: teacher can do to assist with that. But, you know, you should not be spending that much time. We did put out how much time a child should be on doing the work, and if it's going over that we did it by grade level.
TEXT> And if it does go over that, then I think that a phone call to, I mean,  either a phone call because our  staff do have phones that they can be reached at. But as well as reaching out to them and saying, hey, look, my, you know, my students struggling and what can the teacher do to help? We did also put in a, catch up Wednesday day that is is mainly for that purpose for kids to  to catch up on some of the work that they have not been able to complete, as well as, have FaceTime. Our teachers are available every day, but especially Wednesdays to have that FaceTime with the kids that need to be caught up our the work that we have for our students, the reason why we did it the way we we do is because our kids, if you if the work that is assigned on Monday, if it's not completed on Monday, that's okay. Your child has all week to do that work into the weekend. The work is not considered late until the following Monday. So kids have some kids are. A lot of kids have been looking at the work and getting it all done in a couple of days, and some kids have been waiting till the weekend to do to do the work. I don't know if that helps.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: That's good information. Thank you.

[10842-524] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: Look.
TEXT> And again, what we need to understand is when we when we get around to going back to the normal, all lunches cannot be submitted as, as in effect, free lunches. Right. So then we're back to some that are free  and some that are  and some that are paid for. And we're also back into the discussion of any kind of delinquencies we have on the payment of lunches. So that's still a separate conversation than  the current issue that we have going on in the current way that we responded to try and get meals into the hands of the kids, in Claremont and in our schools.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So.

[10842-536] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: Well, yeah.
TEXT> Yeah, I have my I mean, I certainly have my opinions on this. I have spoken with Abby group about what could make, what could make our financials for the food service more attractive. We actually have very little usage of our meal service at the middle school. And I'm sorry, at at the high school, we had many of our kids, even those that qualify for free or reduced lunches that are not, that are not coming in and taking them each day they're leaving campus or finding something else that they want to do. So in order to, you know, it's back to the conversation we had a couple of months ago of do we ratchet back the offerings that we're providing in our cafeteria right now, which will certainly change the economics of this? Or do we find ways of trying to have the kids stay on campus and eat the lunches? And I mean, they're reaching they they provided tried to provide, for example, the same kind of  of subs that they have at Tremont or the other pizza places, or it's the same kind of pieces. So there's a range of things they're doing, but we still have very low usage at the high school. And I mean, we're talking maybe 200 meals that will do there out of the 600 plus kids. And yet we're offering the greatest number of options and therefore the greatest costs.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So is there any is there any what would the savings be if we ratcheted that back? Would it be meaningful enough to make sense? Or is it.

[10842-542] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Donna Magoon: Richard, I have a question. Is it possible that, this will go after June 30th?
TEXT> There is currently a waiver that is being requested to provide the meals for the remainder of the summer. So the state is in conversation with the federal government, the USDA, on that. I would say it's highly likely that this will go through July and August and that and that that waiver will be put into place. If the waiver is not put into place, then in order to provide meals to our kids, you have to have what's called congregant eating. So they need to come into a room and eat the meal there, and the child needs to be there to do so. And that just seems to be contrary to all the social distancing discussions that are going on. So the bed is they will be able to continue to do this free meals with 100%. Through July 3rd. Starting to getting into the question of what next year is, and hopefully we get back to some kind of a norm when we get into next school year. So we are we are preparing to do this through the summer that we we don't get the waiver. We'll end our food program on June 30th.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: But can I just say, Jason, we're getting feedback from you.

[10842-555] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: Sure.
TEXT> That we have a meaningful decision on this just yet. Heather, I think we will have a meaningful decision at our next meeting when there's a conversation. On renewing the contract with Abby Group. I think right now the economics are such that we are in a positive position going forward with the waivers that are currently in place, and I would highly recommend we continue to do the meals we're currently doing, because I think it's I think it's a very positive thing for the kids in Claremont. I agree, but coming back on the economics and looking at it into next year, at our next meeting, we should be having a conversation on here's what the economics are. And and this is the reality of offering food service. But again, if they're willing to do it at a no cost to us, then I can't see why we wouldn't continue to do at least at no cost, assuming we can solve this payment issue that we have on the other side.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So I guess the question that I'm trying to parse out here is, is the problem Abby group or is it? Sounds to me the problem is collections and not

[10842-557] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (cluster also carries Benware, Petrin an | 2020-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: So I guess the question that I'm trying to parse out here is, is the problem Abby group or is it? Sounds to me the problem is collections and not really Abby group. And that's kind of a universally accepted understanding.
TEXT> I would say that is true. I think Abby Group knows the business as well as anyone knows the business,  and they've got a on some of the purchases, on their training, on their people, on their compliance and everything else. The challenge we have is we don't have enough of our kids who are taking advantage of the food program, including those that could be getting free meals. And if they're not taking a free meal, or if we're not offering a breakfast that they want to eat during the school year, we're not getting that reimbursement either. So I think there are some procedural things that we can put into place to make it easier for our students to get a breakfast, to get a lunch, both of them reimbursable, which will have an impact on the financials of our food service program. But those would be done building by building. I'm not sure that that's a board related decision. I think that's more of a principal and building leader type of discussion to try and change the number of meals that we're that we're able to serve and reimburse.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It's interesting.

[10842-560] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Jeff Small: With.
TEXT> With the situation at Stevens because we worked, as you know, Richard, we enhanced the the cafeteria. We put in different seating. We renovated it, we redid the kitchen, brought in Abby Group in the hope that that would be  the appeal to, to students to to want to stay there and enjoy the environment and, and the food. It'd be interesting to find out from the kids themselves why why they're not eating there. What if it's the is it the physical environment? Is it the food? What is it? Or just. Yeah. Of the need to go out. Just get out for a little while.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: The number of seedings is it the. So I think there are a number of answers to that one Frank. But I also believe that we have the ability to

[10842-585] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I'll second that. Okay.
TEXT> Heather seconded it. Motion was, made by Jason and seconded by Heather. Further discussion on all the handbooks. And again, one of the things I think that bothered us last year was the fact that we, got them at about the same time that they would have been distributed to the to the parents and the kids. And we had specifically asked you to get those earlier. So thank you for the the work to get those to us in a timely way to all the administrators. So that being said, all those in favor will do roll call Frank Sprague  Frank says I. Rebecca. Jason Benwell. Rob Lovett, junior. High Michael patron.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: I.

[10842-634] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: 325,000. I'll second.
TEXT> Okay. Further discussion on that. The only thing I would say is it's really when people ask questions about, the amount of social workers and supports for these students. And I'll always say it when given the opportunity that it's really, really important that, these students receive a lot of mental health support and a lot of, intervention types of support. So there are no learning is going to take place until the overarching issues have been, stabilized in these students. So, really, really a critical piece of, of all this programing. So that being said. Frank Sprague, I, Rebecca  Zullo. Jason  Ben where. I Rob Lovett junior.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: High.

[10876-58] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, takes his own ro | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Sadly. I'm alone.
TEXT> Okay. Thank you for that. To catch on that. All right, let's move to the student representative report. Tyler.
NEXT> Tyler: I'm here. Somebody just messaged me about the information to join us for that up. So before I say my I'm missing, go into it. So for Stephen's high school,

[10876-64] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (calls meeting to order, takes his own ro | 2020-06-03
PREV> Tyler: to my teachers face and face to face. However, if any teachers are listening out there, I would like to say that I had the time of my life being in your classes for the last four years. That's how I'd like to spend that.
TEXT> I'm sure that some of you have some comments for the for the student rep. Welcome to. Yeah. It has been a pleasure having you, Tyler.  And I know the hard work that you've done. I know your leadership  with the student body and  everything that you've done.  You put your heart and soul into all that you do,  and,  we'll miss you. I know you're going to be around, and. And I know that we'll stay in touch. As you pursue your career in education. So,   the best to you.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And I'll just pick you back. Tyler, thank you so much for everything. We really appreciate everything you've done, and we know you're going to be very successful. Make sure

[10876-113] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (runs the agenda from [329]; cluster also | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: as I said before, I think every board member wants the very best for, for our graduates, in order to walk on through their next horizon of their life. So, let's all try to work together and make this the best we can for them.
TEXT> So I just want to jump in, having coordinated eight graduations at Stevens High School myself, that after about my fifth or sixth one, we eliminated categorically parents taking photos of trying to come forward in the gym, trying to get posturing to try to get that shot of their student. We just eliminated that and had a professional come in and provide the service that's being offered this year. Number one, it's a much better quality photo. And two, it is again extremely hard to control. I had to have 2 or 3 staff members down there, people jockeying for position making, checking to see who is in line, getting the right people to the front. It was a nightmare. So that that that practice has not been in place for quite a while, where parents could jump up and take photos of their kids graduating. And for those two reasons, one, it's a safety issue, and the other is,  we can provide a much better photo with a professional doing a stage photo. So,  I'm not sure why we're back on that topic, but it's one that we put to bed a number of years ago.
NEXT> Matt Upton: Frank. That's exactly why why Franklin has chose the model they did. Because they were concerned that they couldn't control people getting out of their cars, congregating and, trying to

[10876-118] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yeah. Yep. There it is.
TEXT> All right, so, we have a bunch of items. One one was just covered, and, so everyone, the one most pertinent on on all students of all levels is, what might the reopening of schools look like? And we still don't know is the short answer. We we know that it's highly unlikely it's going to be a traditional opening. Most likely in what we're planning for is a hybrid opening. People have also spoken about  having staggered schedules and all kinds of other  possibilities. What we're also doing is putting a team together with some parent volunteer parent volunteers. People have reached out.  We are going to use, one of our existing committees that has been doing work as as the focus of this committee, and that's the Teaching and Learning and Technology committee, because particularly if we go to a hybrid, they're going to be point people in their buildings and we're going to,  have approximately 10 or 15 people on that committee looking at ways we can reopen. Of course, we have to follow, guidance from from the state in, you know, and everyone's hoping that there'll be some type of vaccine and things like that before we resume in full scale. And as everyone knows, just following in the press to  us, there's a lot of talk of anticipating  a comeback of, of of Covid and no one really knows.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we are that that's the bad news. That's the bad news for everyone across the country. We're not alone. We realize that. But we also have some good news

[10876-134] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the schools, in the classrooms, say, if you have a class of 20 and then you staggered every other day and you had 10 in 1 day in another set of ten, and the other day in opposite those days, they were doing remote work.
TEXT> Those are some of the things that have been proposed. There's, you know, good and bad to both of those things, you know, in many other models. And that's what why we're putting the committee together to kind of get many, many viewpoints on on how this those things would play out from itinerants to nurses to, you know, mental health workers, obviously teachers, technology folks. And we want to have the best, obviously the best possible environment for our students. So it's a lot of work and and we're getting on it and we're  that's something else. You know,  all of this, it goes without saying, is unprecedented. We've never done these types of things. So, we do we have some other exciting things as well, you know, that are, that are happening that are getting sidelined a little bit by it. But, but we're, we're, we're, we're going through with everything. So people will be reporting back about the progress of this.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Rebecca, I'm going to jump in with a quick question. Let me jump in first. Okay. I got a quick sorry. Recently I saw a letter from Biddy Irwin to

[10876-138] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Thank you. Go ahead. Rebecca.
TEXT> I just wanted to say that I'm super worried for parents about the ability to sustain this type of learning for their kids at home, and I was curious to know if  we would be able to,  look over the results of the surveys that have been sent out. Like, will the school board be privy to that information and the responses or the community, or how is that going to work.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: When when we have all of that, I will I will share everything I have and it would be great, as well as share everything with the whole board. But

[10876-150] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Go ahead, go ahead.
TEXT> Mike, for those kids, like I mentioned the last thing, it took nine minutes to load one six minute video. So for those kids who are struggling with  internet services or families, I think it's great that they have Chromebooks. And I think it's great that our school district is trying to match that and take care of that piece. But who would parents contact for,  kids who are struggling with the internet service like mine, for example, who have satellite? I can't be the only one in the district. So do we call you or do we call Jeff or.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[10876-155] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: to it more readily than I can, but, we have really narrowed that down to a proximately. And those guys know the exact numbers are 30 or 40, households. And even then, we we have a plan as well, Donna, if you want to share.
TEXT> So what we normally do is we would have the the people reach out, the parents reach out to the building principal. And the building principal then sends something to me. And I have a, a running document that I put that information. So I know all the parents that need Wi-Fi. And we've been working with companies to go out to parents, households and install, in most cases, Wi-Fi for them. But we're also looking at, Wi-Fi devices that will that will link directly to Chromebooks for certain students to be able to use. So it would only work on their Chromebook. So it wouldn't be a Wi-Fi like a hotspot that would be utilized for everybody in the household that would just be connected to the student's Chromebook, so that the student can get the work done that they need to get done via a hotspot. That's right. They're connected to their home book, so we're looking into that as well.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Okay. I'll be calling you to go on your list.

[10876-164] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right.
TEXT> So I had graduation. We did. You can see it now. You see, the pictures of myself were out there actually seeing if we could pull it off. And many thanks as well to,  chief Chase in chief. I mean, they we we did everything we could to pull this off, and we we couldn't do it even, I that's that's all I'll say. When when you see the space. I understand the perspective of folks when you look at it, that. Wow. If only we could do this.  And I get it, and I it it is frustrating on our end to we would love to have everything that we could have for for the kids. Okay. And we're going to we'll still listen to that and we'll still try to add to what we can do for, for graduation.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I'd like to thank Mike parks also.

[10876-168] Ben Nester | Director of Special Education, SAU 6 (ASR 'Mr. Nestor') | 2020-06-03
PREV> Michael Tempesta: in right here in Claremont, and we're working on it. So, Ben can also, if you're still on Ben, you can if you can talk about I mentioned the social work that we're hiring. You can talk about the extended y opportunities for special ed.
TEXT> Yeah, sure. So, yeah, like, like Mike said, very excited about the partner classroom. It's going to be great. We've got, I got my internet cut out just as you were starting to talk about this mic, so I. Know you, but, we've got that for kiddos slotted to be in the partner classroom next year, two of which are coming back from out of district. Again, good for kids, good for the bottom line. In terms of the social work positions, again, I'm not intimately involved with the hiring of the social workers,  but, next year we are going to be rolling out a real focus. We're creating what we've dubbed a mental health dream team, if you will, where we're going to be bringing in our special education school psychologists and our three social workers. And we've already began begin meeting on this. We're anticipating some increased mental health needs, some behavioral needs as we move into the fall.  You know, given the remote instruction period and the whole pandemic. So anyway, we're just we're going to be deliberate and systematic in the way we, meet mental health needs in the district, moving forward.
NEXT> Ben Nester: And then lastly, we are offering an expanded, extended school year for our special education students. We're essentially offering extended school year for any special education student that is interested.

[10876-175] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: The question was whether or not we would receive a waiver. The state would receive a waiver to continue to do this program beyond June 30th. And the government did come back and say that that waiver was provided to New Hampshire to do it.
TEXT> We have put in a requisite applications to them. There were a couple of questions  that came back today. I know the D who has been handling this for us responded to those questions, but we expect to have the final approval to be able to continue the food program  up through August 31st, which basically gets us into the next school year,  which will which will be which will be great for our kids and those that are currently taking advantage of getting the meals. So we have set up as of now, pending this final approval from the state that we will be having the busses continue to be working with us through the summer.  The people from Abby group will also continue to be working with us through the summer.  Providing the meals and then taking all of the actions necessary to provide meals and delivering meals to people in much hotter temperatures. So, we did get a grant from  the state to be able to purchase some additional coolers and some additional tools so that we can keep the cold things cold and the warm things warm that we're trying to get out to our families. This then speaks into any kind of a renewal that we have with Abby Group.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Normally with Abby Group, they would be quiet during the summer. They would have ended their program at the end of school, and then we would look to start up

[10876-178] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: and I'd like to get that group together next week to raise any questions we have as it relates to the contract, any question we have as it relates to the financials, so that we can move this forward and, and say my hope is
TEXT> continue to work with the Abbey Group going into next year. There will be other questions that we need to address from a school district point of view, to get better engagement from our students, to get better, use of the food programs that we have so we can change our financial programs that way, that doesn't really have anything to do with the Abbey Group. That really has to do with us. So this one here is can we get a group together to specifically speak to the renewal for the Abbey Group? And if I can get that, I'd like to set up that meeting early next week so we can continue to move this forward.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I'm going to volunteer, Jason, since he's not here. So that.

[10876-186] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Wondering, Richard, how much waste is there in the 1000 lunches and breakfasts that are being done per day? Do you know, do you have a handle on that?
TEXT> There's really no waste  on our side. What happens most of the time is they're putting out a certain number of meals with the busses, and then throughout the time that the busses are out there, the bus drivers will call and say that they need additional meals.  If all of the meals that we provide to them are not used, they come back to Stephens and they're repurposed for the most part. Any of the fruit, the chips, the other things that are in there are repurposed going forward. But they've been very careful not to put too many meals on the busses for exactly that reason. Now, the issue as it relates to once it gets to the family, gets to the home, gets to the kids. Are they being eaten? We don't know that, but I'd be surprised if people would continue to come back for meals if they're not eating the ones from the previous day.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: No, I that's beyond our concern, but we're hoping that that the meals are getting to the kids. But I was more concerned that the lunches that were being prepared

[10876-187] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2020-06-03
PREV> Richard Seaman: once it gets to the family, gets to the home, gets to the kids. Are they being eaten? We don't know that, but I'd be surprised if people would continue to come back for meals if they're not eating the ones from the previous day.
TEXT> No, I that's beyond our concern, but we're hoping that that the meals are getting to the kids. But I  was more concerned that the lunches that were being prepared and the breakfast that were being prepared are being utilized and given out, you know, and we're not wasting a lot.
NEXT> Richard Seaman: Yes. I asked that question, several times in talking with Deb, who handles this from Abby group. And again, their their philosophy is that we will make fewer and be

[10876-203] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (introduced as 'Assistant Superintendent | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. So we have contract with the Abbey Group lunch program outsource new vendor. Are those covered Richard or we transition to lunch at the high school now.
TEXT> I'm sorry. Frank, can you can you can you can you ask that question again? So did. We cover item A completely lunch program outsource new vendor. Yes. Okay. So we're item the item B as I say really comes down to what can we do inside of our buildings to change and make it so the kids are either there or staying there? Or how can we go about getting different programs, different flow of food through the building so that they're being better utilized? We have a few ideas that have come in from the Abbey Group side. We have a few ideas that have come in from the leaders within our buildings. We need to get those implemented for next year so that it's easier for kids to partake in it. And then the kids aren't having to decide, geez, do I go over here and do this? Or do I go over and have breakfast?  We want them to be able to get breakfast and have a good meal, and also participate in an extracurricular activity or something going on before school. And those conversations just need to continue on with the building leaders. So we'll be hearing more about that.  We will. And again, as we're able to engage our principles in that, in that conversation.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Okay. All right. Item C teacher nominations.

[10876-223] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Donna [243], [354], [396 | 2020-06-03
PREV> Heather Whitney: Okay. Thank you.
TEXT> Sorry I didn't have that other info. They just said the non chronic case easily treatable and willing willingly done so by parents. The chronic cases cases are not really being addressed by parents. They're saying and the kids are coming back the next day.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Yeah.

[10876-256] Tyler | Student representative to the Claremont School Board, Stevens High Sch | 2020-06-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: not sure where we'll be with regular meetings if we have to, close them to the community members so we can spread out through the whole room. God only knows where we'll be. So. So other topics for for tonight that any burning issues? Tyler?
TEXT> Well, I just chime in. So I just had an email from Miss Berry. And I just wanted to put this out to the public  that, on June 10th at 6 p.m. on the Facebook page will be the last night for the seniors. And, and any students didn't get a scholarship or awards with the electronic invite. On on June 10th, but everybody will be able to see it on the Facebook page starting at 6 p.m. on June 10th. I just wanted to put that out to everybody. That last night will happen at June 10th at 6 p.m. via the Facebook page. And students who who will be getting awards or scholarships to invite via the emails that day. So students should be checking their emails.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I have to assume that there'll be specifics of what that's going to look like, because that's generally a fairly full house at Stevens High School to classmates. So

[10876-328] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as Mike on teacher nominations and su | 2020-06-03
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, I'm fine with that. I just want the data. I just want to know where we're at. I don't need to know the plan for the future. Anything like that. I just want to know where we're at now.
TEXT> Yeah. So the. I did talk to Principal Barry about this in  there. And of course, we're taking any anyone who is on the fence, we have an individual plan for  and we're going to be very sensitive that so that kids it was not a typical spring  in the rule of thumb is that we we went back to where people were before the spring. And anyone who was having substantial difficulty in passing, you know, because of since, since Covid, they're doing everything and giving them extended time and things like that. So even when we get you that, you probably don't want that data much more before, you know, a week before we meet anyway, because it could have changed. Hopefully most of those kids will have been given extensions and leniency by our teachers who were absolutely wonderful at that. And and it'll be wrapped up. So we should have a we could have that to you a week, maybe ten days before we meet.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So that's what I was thinking because there are kids are going to receive interventions. If we get the the initial list, that's going to look a lot different than

[10942-19] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: We did it. And we counted you present. No, not roll call. Because we're all here, Carolyn. Except for you. All right. Thank you. All right. Transitioning to general business. Superintendent report.
TEXT> So? So, I go out to will present. The opening. Of school report. And. And also. Kind of there's a lot of. Clarification that that we hope  is in there. And also we'll show you and direct you to where you can find all of this information on the web. Two other things to clarify. I also want to thank all of the the folks at home. We we had many, many letters expressing opinions about the seriousness of the impact for students in discussing which model to reopen school and  a lot of a lot of and we couldn't answer all of those. We got so many in the past few days, and we tried to make our presentation and include points of FAQs and to address all those, but we will get back and address each and every one of those. But there has been, I think, a 20 or 30 at least over the past couple of days,  long, long ones, you know, and I will get back to each and every one. But we had to get the presentation and the information is changing, as you know. So all right.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I also just want to take a minute and I'm sure we'll talk about that with further discussion. And I know that there was just to clarify for Sunday's meeting.

[10942-21] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: have the it was tough to do that, frankly. We weren't we weren't on TV. We didn't have any other supports. It's much easier to do it now. So the biggest thing that I want to speak about with the with the phasing of this.
TEXT> Okay. And how serious?  Lead the administration and the advisory committee in the board, in all the community members are  taking this. Is that no one. Okay. We everyone wishes that it was last year. Okay. That Covid never happened, that we would open, that we would go back full, that we would just resume. There's not an American. There's not a citizen of the world who doesn't want that after this, the year. But what we have put forward in what you're going to see soon is a hybrid model similar to many other districts,  but  a phased model. Okay. Knowing that right now we are in phase one. It was a shutdown when March came. I was just rereading my the March 3rd letter, the kind of that that was coming. We had one in the office and we knew, no one was prepared across the state as completely as they wanted to be. Knowing that you wouldn't have the kids back. So, that was another thing that will will address. But we we have definite times in this plan. And the plan is to get back upon review when we look at all the data as soon as possible to full. And I don't want you to think that that's not the goal.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we also have more than one option, which we'll show you in. Some people said that that, you know, can I have a remote option and we'll go through

[10942-28] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: I understand it, but why did he have to. That's all I want to know.
TEXT> It's a great point. It's it's because it has been changing that rapidly week to week every other week. He's he's he just did one last Friday as well. So if you're looking as folders  last Friday says sound recordings. It's I don't want to say it's misleading, but it's hard to follow. It's hard to it's so for example, we're going to get to this later. The guide for amateur athletics is posted already in. Kids are practicing. You see them around  town, so they are practicing in youth leagues and the like. That hasn't been banned from the state or anything like that. It's suggested to use, you know, safe practices and things like that. But at the very same time, he also just posted no contact spools sports at all. I recommended during the pandemic. No two weeks in a row. You did that on the 20th and he just did it on last Friday. So what's.
NEXT> Jason Benware: The.

[10942-32] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: to be presented to the nurse before a child can come back to school. If a parent refuses that, then it's an automatic ten days of not coming to school. So that's what he's saying. So anytime you see excluding test, that's what that means.
TEXT> So what he's saying is if if somebody is, you know, you're feeling chilly, you're having any body aches. These are all the things that he's telling us. Excluding tests, new runny nose and nasals, congestion, he said even minor, excluding test.  Person with diarrhea, you know, a history of migraines, headaches, who reported headache yesterday and all symptoms  have resolved minor so they would  not need to be excluded. So so it gives these definite guidelines of what we need to do in schools in order to exclude kids and then to, when to bring them back. I mean, it changes the  last week, but the we prior to one of the things that he did say was he had said, if you have a child that you that comes to the office and you need to and they say they have a temperature and you have to exclude them, you have to call every school and every one that lives, every child that lives in that household needs to go home until a test comes back. And so this past week, he took away that the siblings in the household and said, just the child needs to be excluded. Unless the child comes back and they have  Covid, then all the kids would need to be removed from the school. So as you can see, it's changing so quickly.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And somewhat of a procedural question, I suppose. Should we be asking questions? Will we go along? Or should I write a litany of things down and just read it

[10942-40] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: them in a holding area which we have already established in the schools until they come, but we don't want them to enter the school at all possible, obviously, or the vehicle or the or the bus. So that's, that's kind of what we're trying.
TEXT> To do. And, and you'll see as we, as we move a move forward, one of the things that we will be that parents do have access to is going to be a self document that they're supposed to check at home, which will be kind of the same thing that we do. So, you know, to  have them check their child's temperature to see if their child has any of those symptoms, and if their child does, then the child should not be coming to school. And then when the kid if they so they the child passes all those and then they come to say the bus stop, then they're checked again by someone before they're allowed to board on the bus.
NEXT> Jeff Small: Can I just remind board members, if you do ask a question, if you could just unmute your mic this way callers because we have over 30 callers so they

[10942-45] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: All right so the next slide how long do they stay out for. Okay a lot of questions. Again all of this on on the state website.
TEXT> So again so say they're talking about the ten days. So if a child does not get get tested it's the automatic ten days. So they have to have at least ten days have passed since the first of them has appeared. And at least 24 hours since the last fever. Usually our schools have a 24 hour fever free anyway, so they have to have both of those and symptoms have improved. So there's the three things that they have to make sure they follow before a student can come back to school. And then this, this, the nurse would check in with those kids when they do arrive. And then if a person refuses testing, it's the same as if it's confirmed. So it goes up, back up to the ten days. So if they if a parent says, I don't know how  to test my child, then it goes automatically to the ten days that they have.  And again, so basically what they're saying it's, it's ten days unless you've traveled outside  of New England and that becomes 14 days.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: All right. So and this is the form that.

[10942-47] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: All right. So and this is the form that.
TEXT> This this is the form that I was talking about. So this one right here would be for the elementary parents. So they would they would look here so they would look for these symptoms. And then there's the two questions that they would ask. And if you said yes to any of these, then your child should not be coming to school. And these are kind of the same things we'll look for when the child comes to us.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes. Rebecca.

[10942-51] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: have kids that have allergies and issues recurrently or seasonally, that if the symptoms are the same and that if they're treatable with antihistamines, then that's a consideration that's taken in place, which I think is a concern to a lot of people whose kids.
TEXT> And most most of the students that we know with allergies or inhalers or all that we have registered anyway. And I can't stress this enough. None of  all parents, none of us like doing this. No one wants. We want your kids back. We want it to be back the way it was. But this is just like what happens when you went to a kind of a scientific place at work or a hospital, and that's all the schools in the country are doing this right now. So it's it's it's, it's a it's very different. This year is going to be different no matter what.  So,
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And I know one of the things that, that we're concerned about, and we brought it up at the, at the last meeting, and it's been, you know, that it

[10942-54] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: How. How do we as educators and we've we've said this many times to each other. How do we as educators know exactly who's coming back when? How do you snap judgment, make a case? And this was a recurring question from parents in email.
TEXT> Right. And so one of the things they're saying is it depends upon what your classroom looks like. So if you see here it varies. So how long would a child and who gets sent home if a child has been, you know, has tested positive for Covid, you know, and they have to be quarantined, who would it be? And they're saying, well, it depends. It depends upon if you what how far apart the kids are, the contact they're having to be other  you know, so they're saying all the groups who  have their, you know, have one assigned seat that they're always sitting at, they're they're just maybe 2 or 3 individuals around them that have to be foreign mind, not the whole classroom. But then they're saying, but the if you're having even the older kids or the younger kids that are intermingling with each other, that may be a whole class situation where they're all going to have to be quarantined. But one of the things that that they said is if we have a child that has a case, we automatically have to call the DDHS, and they will work with us to determine who should be quarantined and who shouldn't be.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So it's not solely on the school to make that determination. As soon as we have a positive case, we call them and they help us make that judgment call.

[10942-72] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a peer page with our PD on a regular basis, so that we bolster and we do Google Classroom in 5 or 6 other applications really well in often. So there will be more concentration of that and more of that to share with parents.
TEXT> One of the things that we know if when we had to close down, we really had no prep time. It was Sunday. You guys are closed now. And so we had a little bit of time to try to get things together, to get programs and to do all this stuff. Now that we've had some time to kind of think about what what it would look like, it's going to be, it's going to be different than it was, you know, because I know a lot of people say, well, my child did not do well with totally remote learning. We're looking we know that, that a lot of our kids did not do well with that. So we are looking at other ways that we can work with kids that on those days, on those remote days that they're not sitting in front of a computer doing the computer work. So they may have,  you know, a Monday class and the teacher will go over activities and things for them to do.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And then Tuesday they'll be working on those activities. So it doesn't necessarily mean that they would be in front of the computer doing this. And we we have we

[10942-73] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: with kids that on those days, on those remote days that they're not sitting in front of a computer doing the computer work. So they may have, you know, a Monday class and the teacher will go over activities and things for them to do.
TEXT> And then Tuesday they'll be working on those activities. So it doesn't necessarily mean that they would be in front of the computer doing this. And we we have we purchased programs and we plan on doing training with parents. And I know I'm going ahead a few slides, but we plan on doing parent training with parents. We have our kids now in our classrooms that we can train them on the programs, because basically with our lower level kids, we just said, here's a program, try to figure out how to do it. You know, the parents want to show how to do it, and the kids didn't know how to do it. Now we have that ability to train everyone on how to use programs.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just wanted to pause for one second and let Jeff know that there's a bunch of messages coming in that people are having a challenging time hearing the audio

[10942-125] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: the reason we varied the days to go Monday and Tuesday. Friday is so that we would see the student so that the student wouldn't go without interventions. The student wouldn't go without support in that they would that that was the rationale. So yes.
TEXT> So some questions have been raised about that. And they're pretty good ones people have asked from an instructional standpoint it might make more sense. But by doing it that way, you're only having one group of kids who get a clean room. If you go with the kids going Monday, Thursday, those kids get a clean room. All the Tuesday, Friday, kids never get a clean room. Yeah.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're cleaning the rooms every.

[10942-134] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: part that I talked about, that survey that's going out tomorrow is critical, right. So we need to know who from which household across town that we link. The families. And I have other slides to show this alpha so that I'll just slip ahead.
TEXT> And it's not necessarily just so for instance, if, if, if I was married in my last name was different from my new husband and I both had kids and we had different last names and different ways of alphabet, this household. So all the kids in that household would go on the same day. And so we're trying to  look at, you know, trying to have the older kids home with the younger kids. So if parents  need to work, they have their older sibling home. So that way they don't have the older one home on a Monday and the younger one home on a Tuesday  with no, you know, no childcare like that. So we're trying to make those arrangements as well, as well as looking at the area and the pickup area and,  and bussing and.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So, so question number three, which would end the questions that I had in that one was I saw that it was mentioned the full remote option included. And those

[10942-135] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: one home on a Monday and the younger one home on a Tuesday with no, you know, no childcare like that. So we're trying to make those arrangements as well, as well as looking at the area and the pickup area and, and bussing and.
TEXT> So, so question number three, which would end the questions that I had  in that one was  I saw that it was mentioned the full remote option included. And those types of things. Will there be  live  will there be live content? It was the question. And  as the lack sits with with teachers putting it in, would would we then not risk losing our adequacy aid for those kids.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes. So so you you wouldn't lose adequacy.

[10942-139] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I asked you had.
TEXT> Because if the kids home school were losing eggs.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Yeah, right. It's not considered homeschool for for this time period and normal. In the past it has been. But as of right now, they're not considering it any type

[10942-144] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: yet. We will have that over the next week, and we will be building those, those cohorts to see what exactly what we can do. And we will get to that to as a precursor for, you know, with the teaching assignments and everything else.
TEXT> And we'll be out when we send the survey out. We're going to send a survey out. And we're asking that and you'll see a little later on. But we're asking that everybody respond to the survey by Sunday. And then Monday we're going to look at the survey and we're going to divvy it up to the schools. So that way the schools can take a look at which child, which parent responded, and then they can reach out to the the families that have not. So that way we have we know 100% pending. We have everybody's phone numbers correctly in our system  of what our kids are going to be doing. So we're hoping by Wednesday  know exactly what everybody's doing, if not sooner.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Have a quick question about the all day masks and.

[10942-166] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: But state Department of Health.
TEXT> Well, either way, my point is, is that if we're going to require masks, full day  on all kids with mask breaks at six feet, I guess I'm I'm curious what the difference between three feet of distance and six feet of distance. And if we can do three feet of distance. Well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Six feet is what the only change for three feet that ever crept in was for transportation from the New Hampshire Department of Education. CDC is is still a solid

[10942-170] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: That we would risk that.
TEXT> And if we go back a few slides and we talk about when would we have to quarantine our kids, the the closer we have them together, the more kids we'd have to quarantine. So if we have if we're six feet apart in there, you know, we may just have, you know, it may just be Jeff that has to go and be quarantined. And so the whole entire classroom, including the teacher, because if the teachers quarantine, we have to think about the other kids as well. So we want to make sure we're trying to keep everybody safe.
NEXT> Unidentified: Wasn't it?

[10942-209] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Rebecca.
TEXT> I don't know, I just think we can get into this huge debate over mask versus no masks and and blah, blah, blah, blah, the same thing that the entire country has been doing for the last three,  four months. And I think it's a waste of our time to try and debate that, because you have a different opinion than I have. I have a different opinion than you have. It doesn't really matter. What we're here to do is figure out what is safe as a group for our students to return to school. So I think we just need to focus on that. I appreciate you saying you don't feel comfortable with having lesser standards than what the community has.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I don't, and from the survey and the conversations I've had with my staff and all of the people we employ to make all this happen. I know they don't.

[10942-217] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: nurses association, with everything to see what is what's doable. Okay. But that was our rationale for that. Mass breaks our big thing where I wanted to highlight the mass breaks because it's out there and it's it's we just want it to be supervised.
TEXT> We want to have that that control over that, particularly at the early grades with the kids, what they expect. The younger the kids, the easier, frankly, they have them, you know, doing all kinds of things. But we we know what that's like, particularly when you open up to have it as tight as possible and then relax it because it's tough to get anything back. Ask any first year, second year teacher if they don't take control at the beginning of the year, it's tough to regain that. So that that was our rationale. With that proven barrier cloth staff, we bought everything. We bought a full range. This is was a question for many of our bus drivers as well as to what we have. Okay. And we'll get to that as well in other people who are in close contact with students. So we have a range from a cloth mask, paper masks for the public,  cloth masks for every student, every staff member and multiple ones. We're going to launder those. We're going to assist with those  are we also have face shields, a thousand of those that we were donated from Whalen that you'll see in a upcoming slide.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And again, thank you. Thank you for for those again, more resources that we can use in other ways by getting those and the like. Okay. So these are this

[10942-226] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: But.
TEXT> These kids ride with those kids in the bus, so everyone's on the bus.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And it's middle and high middles ahead. So it's so it doesn't matter the size when we're talking about the distance.

[10942-239] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: For the amount of kids we again, we don't know. These are unknowns. We don't know. We got a survey. We got to get it typed, we get a pair it off. And we're very hopeful. But we have to get on it ASAP.
TEXT> And and one of the things too that, you know, we're looking at busses. I don't know if anybody's ever driven behind a school bus. The kids aren't sitting nicely in their seat.  You know, they're up jumping around doing things they're not supposed to be doing, you know? So we really have to almost train the kids that you have to sit in your seat, you know, in the same thing with siblings. A lot of siblings don't get along. And now we're going to, you know, when they're on the bus, they don't want to sit with their brother or sister, you know, and now they're going to have to sit with their brother and sister in these types of cases, because we need to make sure that we can get everybody that we can. So, you know, we'll try to accommodate as best we can.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So these and now we're talking about space in the room. So the this is what bluff looks like. We have it 12. What. You'll notice that you can see

[10942-241] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: of students. But some staff also, if we are lopsided, like we got caught over the some of the bluff sizes were really low, some of the maple sizes were high. We had some classrooms with about ten of them, and then we had 24.
TEXT> So if that's the case, we're going to make cohorts either if they're virtual okay or if we have to transfer a teacher to another building or things like that, or potentially if it works in the bus routes and it makes sense,  suspend the coverage of of who goes to what school so that we have class cohort sizes that are manageable and safe for everyone so that it's the equity there, you know. So the kids well there in initially hopefully only initially for a couple of days a week as we expand and then we look at it, maybe we get that Wednesday back. Maybe we get this, you know, as we open up, it will it will be even and it will be, it will be best for them to be in groups of close, close to about eight. And then we can use those teachers as well by assignment for, for a virtual folks. And again, we don't know exactly what that looks like yet, but we will soon.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And Jason, to.

[10942-243] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: And Jason, to.
TEXT> To go back to one of your questions. So if you look here at, at the classroom, as, you know, as a former teacher myself, so if I'm in the classroom and and say I'm at my desk, right, I could say to the kids, okay, we're going to take a mask break. You can remove your mask, you know, bring your mouse down. And they could all they're all socially distanced so they can have their masks down. Now, if I'm in front of the classroom and I'm walking around teaching my kids, you know, or doing work with them, then I would ask them to put their mask on for for the safety of all of us, you know, so those types of things, that's why we're saying, you know, the kids should have about having mask as well.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So when we talk about class space and class size, have you looked at I mean, because so Stephens High School, we traditionally have histories in this room. Science is

[10942-246] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Absolutely.
TEXT> So and we're also looking at one thing that's been really tough is as you could get and I don't want we have to let me just caveat we have to plan for this stuff. It's bizarre, but we have to. So we are going to do the temperatures. I'm thinking of Stevens now. It's our most challenging campus. Right. So if you if you have if we've taken temperatures for all the riders and then they're coming up to the front loop, which is the traditional hangout, anyone who's driven by Broad Street in the morning, those kids, they like to hang in the glass area, the foyer there. That's not going to happen. That's the express line drop from the bus. And in everyone else, all the walkers are going to come through what will look like. As Principal. Barry described. It to us the other. Day. A movie theater with concert lines roped off. You're coming in. You're you're scanned. You're in as fast as possible. Again. We didn't ask for this. Hopefully you're skinned. You're fine. You go. You are received by your homeroom teacher. If not, you are going immediately into a cordoned off area of the gym. We have to. We're not going to have gym.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We're not going to have gym. We're going to use gym. We're going to use the. Every room that we have is functionally to your point, as we need to

[10942-256] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Again. We're not overreacting. I'm just telling you what what we're looking at because we would rather have options for kids to be healthy. And whether that's playing five on five soccer, five on five field hockey, five, whatever it is, or skills and drills.
TEXT> And then what? Also, I don't believe it's voted on yet. I think all they voted on was the pushing the start date of sports to the 8th of September. But what's before committee now is to have open tournaments so that everyone is in the tournament. And whatever you do locally is whatever you do locally, and then the tournament starts type of thing because it varies so different amongst amongst communities. I think they're working out those, those details. They've also talked about swapping seasons the fall season for the spring season. I don't know that it will happen, but they're talking about it because the fall is so heavily contact sports with soccer, boys and girls soccer, football  and field hockey being close contact, expelling sports versus  softball and baseball, a little bit of contact, not as much  spring events in the like. I don't know where that's going. We're keeping it posted. What I do know in that I'm recommending in I'm not comfortable with it again,  nor are my bus drivers and is risking our transportation for sports, extracurriculars and things like that that we might need just to get our kids to school. Like I said, we have seven drivers or nine drivers hopefully, but if that goes down, if the fleet goes down, kids don't get to school and not it's a choice to play a sport.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes.

[10942-267] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Yeah. And I'm not even near mine so. All right. So so the so but but what we, what, what a lot of the students said and particularly in what was neat about this group, was you had long term athletes who were still,  way more articulate than I was at 17 speaking, speaking about this is my life. I love it, but it's still going to be a tough decision for me. Has to be your choice type of thing.  And then we also had people coming up with creative ideas for drama for, for for music, you know, smaller plays, venues, parades that could be observed by folks videotaping, volleyball, for example, no spectators in because it's closed and things like that. And again, we were we were talking about a range of options depending on and all of this to over the six weeks that we met. If it spikes, what's the range going to be? We knew we would have to make decisions on the fly. So, but those are some of the things they had in really good ideas. We don't want to take anything away at all. We don't, but we want to. We need to make sure that it's safe for students in. The hardest thing for us so far has been particularly what we all expect is hard work, dedication of the student athlete, the performer, and then there's some type of event that everyone goes and sees.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's the best thing about those things. Those of us who participate in, it's wonderful. Okay, you're competing against your neighbors this, that. No one wants that to go

[10942-270] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Yes.
TEXT> So some feedback from people who have sent emails  and my own thoughts on this. Sports are something and extracurriculars are things that kids choose to do. And there are things that parents choose to allow their children to do.  So if parents choose to allow the children to play a sport with the understanding of the risk, those that don't want that risk simply won't allow their parents or their kids to play the sport. Number one. Number two, we used to have a thing in the area called the Connecticut Valley League, and it was an air it was it was competing with schools all across the Connecticut River, up and down from Lebanon, down to Bellows Falls.  And, this may be one of those times when that's something that we should look at because our area from here to Bellows Falls and pretty much up to Lebanon and across into, into,  you know, the Norwich area or whatever is relatively unaffected as we speak right now. It's still like a definition of what a contact sport is. Are you going to get to that?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Yeah.

[10942-272] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yeah.
TEXT> Well yeah. His his definition is this statement no physical contact. So I've heard it described as this okay. No physical contact. If you touch bodies you're out okay. This is what we've struggled with as administrators form athletes and coaches as well as the ads have. You're really talking about mouthguard. Sports is like I can't think of a better way we anticipate contact and you protect that. Generally speaking, that's the colloquial language people are using to describe. That. Is is it defined? No. We wish I wish I wasn't in a public meeting right now saying, I don't really have a great definition for you as you have a very sensible question, but but that's where we are. We there has been no direct guidance from the Naia or canceling, flip flopping these things. And it doesn't hold up to what's happening in amateur sports. Right. So a kid right now can play youth sports, they can pay to do something and do that. And the families with the means can have that advantage that other kids don't. And it drives me crazy.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Just sort of golf every by that definition, every sport is a contact sport. In baseball you're going to contact somebody track and field. You're going to contact somebody. If

[10942-286] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: The.
TEXT> Specialists in. So the kids are passing fewer times with the schedules and then the next set of slides. I have some of the schedules  and I have, you know, households to show how that same cohort on the same day and the like, we've ordered, I believe, 200 or 300 of the temperatures  to have 10 or 20 of them at each school. And with all the coaches and all those other things that you have to, you know, used to be in my day, if you relate to you were running, you were doing all these other things, and now you better be there for temperature check, you know, so it's it's.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's.

[10942-297] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: Yeah. Okay. The child has to come back to like, a kid table to work with a teacher. They have these devices. They can work with the future.
TEXT> So there's nothing that's going to be going on the children's desks to to give them an opportunity to not wear their masks during the day. If I understand.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: We we have I don't know, you probably close to that dawn. I know we got of those new c c ones. I know not for a whole set, not

[10942-302] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: Right.
TEXT> One of the things that we were really lucky about is, is having  having the availability to have the, for us because we did purchase some, some of them that we purchased from, from a store, and it was a, the plexiglass on the bottom, it had a little plexiglass stand. It almost looks like they cut in it, and they just stuck the plexiglass in it. And, what really worked out well for us is this week we're doing kindergarten screening.  And so the Screen act, the people that were doing the screening were sitting there, and they're doing the testing,  and all of a sudden the kid pushes it over and it is very flimsy.  And so we ended up going out and taking the ones that we purchased and bringing the ones that we've made in there for them. And the kids can't push them over and they're like, wow, this is so much better. So the ones that we purchased, we're looking at putting something around. Now we'll possibly go into the older kids where we are not going to fall over on the teacher and the teacher. So we've been very fortunate, you know, testing things out this week to see what works and what doesn't work.
NEXT> Unidentified: I have 15 in my car right now in the. Show.

[10942-311] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: Leaving for.
TEXT> The day or they leave. But no matter what it's it's elbow to elbow. And no matter what, if you've been in the middle school or you've been in, this is what Stevens High looks like.  You know, all all last year and the opening foyer and stuff like that. It's what a school looks like. Okay. We hope to return to that. That's that's just, I think an exemplar of what we're trying to avoid right away and then get back to normal as soon as the numbers as soon as the safety and God willing that there's a vaccine as soon as possible as well. Again, this is this is  also on that same thing. There was another venue of parents coming up dropping. It's a it's a really emotional scene and it's going to be us soon. And  I know parents are struggling with I know what it's like to drop your, your, your kid off and trust others, you know, to to take care of your child. So that's pretty much what our foyer will look like. Or someone will be there for the temperature.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: The warm greeting, first of all, like there's always been, that starts with the bus drivers. To which I wish if you ever want to ride. They're amazing. You know

[10942-315] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: documents and things like that, and it changes within a couple of days. So you can just we can add on to this, revise this. And it's always a centering document to to go back and forth from, if you don't mind speaking about this.
TEXT> Two of the things that we were looking at doing is, educating our parents and guardians guardians as well, because one of the things we did when remote learning ended, we asked parents and community members and students and everyone, what was your what was your thoughts on what we just went through in case we had to do something again? So that way we knew what we could change or how we could fix it. And so through that, we found that we needed to educate a little bit more, you know, to teach them because, you know, they didn't know the programs. They were kind of thrown into the programs like the children were. So one of the things that we're looking at doing is we're looking at offering some types of some types of trainings for, for parents, guardians. And  it could be online, it could be face to face, depending upon the size of the class. It could be a parent or guardian in a child. But so we're doing like a Chromebook one on one, which is just navigating, you know, because, you know, one of the calls that I think I answered was, how do I turn the dime thing on, you know, so because sometimes they have, you know,  grandparents watching them and they're like, I don't have a Chromebook, I don't have anything.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So so we would help with things, things such as that we're looking at using the program seesaw for pre-K to two years old, which is the, the format that

[10942-316] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: because, you know, one of the calls that I think I answered was, how do I turn the dime thing on, you know, so because sometimes they have, you know, grandparents watching them and they're like, I don't have a Chromebook, I don't have anything.
TEXT> So so we would help with things, things such as that we're looking at using the program seesaw for pre-K to two years old, which is the, the format that we're going to be using, which Google Classroom would be the 3 to 12, which is currently what they've been doing. One of the things we're also looking at with Google Classroom and Seesaw was having it more, as I said Sunday, having it. So that way everybody kind of has the same format. So when somebody goes in there. One child. It's the same as the other. So they're not trying to navigate and figure, okay,  I went through this one. How do I do all this now. And this one looks totally different. So we're trying to make it so that way they're more they're similar in that. And then remote learning set strategy. So building a workspace what does a workspace look like for your child. You know what are some resources. How do you get the balance between being a parent and working with your child. You know. And when do you say, okay,  enough's enough I can't do this, you know, because we don't want it to be a fight.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: The last thing we want a parent to do is fight with their child about work, about schoolwork, because we know that we're the educators. And that's what our job

[10942-317] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: know what are some resources. How do you get the balance between being a parent and working with your child. You know. And when do you say, okay, enough's enough I can't do this, you know, because we don't want it to be a fight.
TEXT> The last thing we want a parent to do is fight with their child about work, about schoolwork, because we know that we're the educators. And that's what our job is, is to educate your children and the children in our district. It's not the parents job to do that part. That's ours. So we want to work together with how do we how do we balance that out, social emotional well-being for both students and parents? Because we do know it is very hard to have your child home with you all day. You know, even myself,  you know, growing up as an educator, having to educate my own child was very complicated. There were times when I just, I had to walk away and I said to my husband, you need to deal with him because you're going to have one less child, you know, and I went to school in education, you know, because it just doesn't work because it's different, you know?
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And that's why a lot of times when parents come in. They'll say, you know, oh, he's so good at school. And they're like, really my kid. You know, it's

[10942-318] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: had to walk away and I said to my husband, you need to deal with him because you're going to have one less child, you know, and I went to school in education, you know, because it just doesn't work because it's different, you know?
TEXT> And that's why a lot of times when parents come in. They'll say,  you know, oh, he's so good at school. And they're like, really my kid. You know, it's it's different. It's a different approach. So we know that it's very stressful for both the child and the parent. So doing some social and emotional well-being and supports and helping out with that, as well as talking about some of our technology tools and showing parents how to use them and working through them. So some of the things like Flipgrid  and Brain Pop and reading A to Z, these just are naming a few of the the programs that we'll go through with parents and students and how to do that. And the great thing about our hybrid is we're going to be able to walk the kids through how to use these programs. For the most part, a lot of them already know how to use them, but we can definitely say, okay, so tomorrow you're going to be doing this assignment on Brain Fog. We could bring a kid into that program having started already. So then the next day they're already familiar with what they were doing. So that's the that's the good thing about the hybrids program.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And that's what we're going to be offering for parents. So when we look at the staff, we're going to be we're going to be obviously talking about the district

[10942-319] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: you're going to be doing this assignment on Brain Fog. We could bring a kid into that program having started already. So then the next day they're already familiar with what they were doing. So that's the that's the good thing about the hybrids program.
TEXT> And that's what we're going to be offering for parents. So when we look  at the staff, we're going to be we're going to be obviously talking about the district policies and procedures that we have in place and some of our school policies and procedures. We're going to be looking at the curriculum expectations. So again, what is the Google Classroom need to look like? What does seesaw look  need to look like. How do we do that.  Looking at the competencies and standards and saying, what is it that our kids miss that we can kind of pull in to this year? And what is some of the things that we know we're going to be teaching, you know, in a in a month so we can hold off and teach something else right now. So we're going to be looking at those standards and grading. How are we grading. You know, because that was one of the big things that the parents were saying. It's you know, you're grading. How do we know that? Who's doing the work at home? You know, we hope that it's the student, but we know that the parents are helping as well.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So we need to look at that in the grading and make sure that we're we're being fair to all students with that, looking at our core programs, our online

[10942-320] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: was one of the big things that the parents were saying. It's you know, you're grading. How do we know that? Who's doing the work at home? You know, we hope that it's the student, but we know that the parents are helping as well.
TEXT> So we need to look at that in the grading and make sure that we're we're being fair to all students with that, looking at our core programs, our online programs, you know, familiarizing staff with them and making sure  and as well as doing some social emotional well-being with our staff, because we do know this is going to be very stressful for them as well. And so one of the things that we talked about is how do we get this out to parents? So we talked about doing some type of advertising or showing things on CCTV. We're going to be looking at doing an YouTube channel  that can that  can promote some of the things that we're doing in our district, then schedule drop in sessions. So we'll have a no sounds funny schedule dropping. So what it would be would be you'd scheduled time. So we may say, well, today we're going to be going over seesaw and we're going to have, you know, we can have for parents because we have social distancing or whatever. And then we could have, you know, you could schedule time to come in on that day because some people do much better sitting in front of someone then they do.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: If we send them a video and say, watch this video and make what that video does, because number one. How do you mimic it when you're on your computer?

[10942-368] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: our schools, then we have to target the parents that have high risk professions. If you're getting a kid with a temperature when they get to the door, I mean, that's not it's not really that's not really helping us any. Did the parents travel?
TEXT> Have you gone away on vacation? Have you been with anybody who's traveled? I mean, those things are the things that we need to be focusing on. Everything else is just catching it after it's already happened. As far as the masks, I'm not going to beat this to death because it's something that people feel really, really comfortable with. But all the mask data is based on adults and not children, and how children handle wearing masks and whether or not they're compliant with them and whether or not they actually contaminate themselves more. Wearing a mask without wearing a mask. And I know it's a comfort level that people have, and they've heard over and over that masks reduce transmission. And with adults, we know that for sure. That's something we know for sure. So I can get on board 100% with that. And I can also understand why people in the community, that's just an uptick that helps people get through the day. The other piece I think we're missing is that this was a super comprehensive presentation that didn't focus on how the past remote experience has affected our educational quality, how much our kids have lost, how we're going to make up for that, how starting 6 or 7 weeks when this phased approach with this remote, you know, with this phase approach, are we going to how are we going to recoup the losses that we've
NEXT> Heather Whitney: sustained there? You know, I think we've kind of like I said before, we're a little bit myopic. We're we're almost missing our primary mission, which is educating the children.

[10942-369] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: our kids have lost, how we're going to make up for that, how starting 6 or 7 weeks when this phased approach with this remote, you know, with this phase approach, are we going to how are we going to recoup the losses that we've
TEXT> sustained there? You know, I think we've kind of like I said before, we're a little bit myopic. We're we're almost missing our primary mission, which is educating the children. And my last point really is I probably have another point that I haven't thought of, but it's very observational. But something that's weighing heavy on my mind  is I work with a bunch of very affluent people, fluent people, and almost without exception, if their families or if their communities have decided to either have remote or semi remote or these hybrid models, they're sending their kids to private school. So they're they're literally going to pull their kids and they have the means and they're going to send them to private school, or they're going to hire a nanny or au pair or a tutor to be with their kids, giving them the educational opportunities that public school kids are not going to get. Again, I mean, in this whole movement for social justice and income equity and equity of outcome and opportunity, once again, I think we are potentially falling short and we're actually putting our highest risk kids, the most disadvantaged kids in one of the most disadvantaged communities in the state, once again at the bottom of the pile, with no way out for these families
NEXT> Heather Whitney: to elevate them. Education is the only way out for these folks, and we're just putting a boot on their neck. And not only that is, we're putting the boots

[10942-371] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: we're just putting a boot on their neck. And not only that is, we're putting the boots on the next to the parents to who are just struggling to put food on the table and keep their families together. And that's me off my box.
TEXT> Thank you. Well, I have a couple. Things I just wanted to. Put. Out because I. Just wanted to. Clarify and ask if if so, and I'll get to a few other things after. But so we have to we have to open school. So we have, as you know, as you were part of it from the very start we've been meeting, we've been talking about what we're going to do in all these other things,  and we have to open school. We, we, we know that our students have been out five and a half, six months,  and it terrifies us. So  to your point of if we should have come here focused on pre and post tests and things that we can't gather over the summer in benchmarks, I mean, that's that's just we can't do that. I know. So I wish I wish we could but that's just not even even when we do our baseline testing for entire years and cohorts and analysis and data review teams, which all of our teachers do faithfully every week, and they bussed hail to do it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And we're so proud of them. So we couldn't do that during we were just trying to stay afloat and give the kids something and they'll be it. That's why

[10942-372] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I wish I wish we could but that's just not even even when we do our baseline testing for entire years and cohorts and analysis and data review teams, which all of our teachers do faithfully every week, and they bussed hail to do it.
TEXT> And we're so proud of them. So we couldn't do that during we were just trying to stay afloat and give the kids something and they'll be it. That's why we're trying to ramp up. We'll focus on the capacity that we're going to build what hasn't been said. It has to. I have to say this, and you all know that it's part of our strategic plan to retain and draw people in when we have had a turnover problem forever, our our teachers, our powers, our  our staff are the backbone of our operation. They are they have to be here or we have no product for that. We have nothing to come back to. I'm not being inflammatory. I'm not speaking for them. They are going to show up and they're going to get it done because that's how they are. We can't take risks for them. They are coming. They are the people who live in Vermont. They are the people who live in. A couple of them live in Massachusetts. They live in all over the place. They are traveling. They're coming back. They are your workforce. So in terms of the transient nature of our demographic and all of the things that we have to, we signed up. We love this community. There are so many other things to your point that that we have to equalize.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Right? And so we're Spencer said about education, American public education. It's the great equalizer. Sky's the limit. I want these students back. We want to see them. We want

[10942-375] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: environment we can so that we are going forward with with our with our, our model. So that's that's a big piece at the back of it. So and we still haven't even met with them yet. We have concerns and things like that. But
TEXT> One of the things the Department of Education has recommended that the first two weeks of school be almost a social, emotional time because our kids have lost a lot because of that. So they don't want us to test our kids when they first walk in the door. They want us to be able to build those relationships and, you know, let the kids know where they are for them and support them in any way that we can. So we want to, you know, we want to make sure we make those build those relationships right off the bat. The second thing is, I mean, as as a former teacher myself, what I can say to you is that, as you know, having 24 kids in my class, I tried as hard as I could to individualize and try to get it on a normal year, if I could, as a teacher, have a cohort of seven, ten kids, 12 kids, those kids are going to gain much more than if I had 24, because I can really individualize and look at what they've lost and work with them on that.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So I can be working about what's going on in the classroom, as well as picking up on anything that they can missed. Miss better with a smaller cohort than

[10942-376] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: if I could, as a teacher, have a cohort of seven, ten kids, 12 kids, those kids are going to gain much more than if I had 24, because I can really individualize and look at what they've lost and work with them on that.
TEXT> So I can be working about what's going on in the classroom, as well as picking up on anything that they can missed. Miss better with a smaller cohort than with a whole classroom. So I think even by educationally, I think it's a smart move because we're going to be able to to individualize our kids so much better.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But you're going to see about half the time that's my I mean, I'm just struggling with this and and I'm, I'm trying not I'm not trying to be critical.

[10942-378] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: struggling with this and and I'm, I'm trying not I'm not trying to be critical. I'm just really I'm struggling with if, if I, if I can, in my gut feel it's the best thing to do, then please convince I really want to be.
TEXT> You know, the goal is every teacher wants to be back. Eventually 100% with their kids every single day. So so what we're looking at is this is a stepping stone to get us to that point. So when we do get back to that point, the kids that are that have fallen behind,  we're hoping to have them right back. So that way it's like, not like last year never happened. So we we have those relationships built and we can start like  almost like the first day our kids didn't lose anything. We've we've gained all this and moved forward with our kids.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: But back to the infection rate. If we can't be okay at zero, what are we going to be okay at? And what are we going to shut down for?

[10942-408] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Time, I want to give other people a chance, like. Right.
TEXT> So my my point is, you know, we're talking full open versus hybrid where for either way there's a remote learning option. Option. Yes. So when you look at the the numbers from your survey, you did just purely on parents and it was about a thousand parents that responded. About 450 were for the reopening. About 250 were for the hybrid is 300 were for remote. So that's about 30% of your parents that if we do a full reopen, 30% of those parents are going to keep their kids home.  So we're not talking about reopening with 1800 kids. We have still if these numbers are continue to be accurate, we have still 30% of our student population that won't be coming to school because they'll be doing remote learning. So. So numbers with people that are keeping their kids home for remote learning, that gives you more space to do the best we can with the social distancing, do the best we can to get kids to wear masks while they're up in about or all day if that's, you know, if that happens to be the directive. But we can't do anything more than the best we can do to keep these kids safe.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Whether it's.

[10942-411] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Full remote. Or hybrid.
TEXT> I think it would be really hard to pull that off. So if we right now, like Newport went, went out and said, all in, all out, let's hope it lands in the middle, lets you know, I think it's going to be hard to pull that off, I really do. We don't have the infrastructure. Right.  Like I said, they have half the kids, half. If I can, I can model that. We can go for it. We also don't know from that survey. That's why it's critical for those those watching that we get those numbers tight. Even though that was a nice respondents rate for surveys, it wasn't the full sample. So it could skew one way or the other. And we won't know that until we have the second round. But we didn't we didn't want to start  based on reactions and things like that. We didn't want to start sampling until  the second round of the survey, until we had these discussions publicly.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Okay, so. Let me turn on my. I want to begin by saying I understand this took. A ton of time. And I know there's a lot of work put

[10942-412] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And we won't know that until we have the second round. But we didn't we didn't want to start based on reactions and things like that. We didn't want to start sampling until the second round of the survey, until we had these discussions publicly.
TEXT> Okay, so. Let me turn on my. I want to begin by saying I understand this took. A ton of time. And I know there's a lot of work put into this, and I appreciate that. But I feel and I. Agree with Heather. I feel a lot of it missed. The mark to some degree. Where do I begin? Since. We've been talking. About this, I believe our risk is relatively low. Also  based. Upon looking at the numbers. And I touched on this on Sunday. I'm not going to rehash it too much, but I do believe that the survey was flawed. I don't think it was effective, and I don't think it asks the right questions. And it really didn't have to be that long. It should have simply asked  today, understanding what the risks are, would you send your kid to school or would you have them remote learn? Because if we had those numbers, we'd have a much better idea of what we're talking about. If we went for a remote option or a full open for the kids who wanted to come. We don't have that. But based upon the numbers Mike threw out, we had. 45% send them to school. We had  35%. Remote learning in the middle was the rest for the most part.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Now, since we knew that we did this weighted survey, which stuck a bunch of people in the middle, because the people who wanted to send their kids to school,

[10942-413] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: or a full open for the kids who wanted to come. We don't have that. But based upon the numbers Mike threw out, we had. 45% send them to school. We had 35%. Remote learning in the middle was the rest for the most part.
TEXT> Now, since we knew that we did this weighted survey, which stuck a bunch of people in the middle, because the people who wanted to send their kids to school, the next closest thing is the hybrid model, the people who don't want to send their kids to school and they want to have a remote learn the next closest thing to that, if they have to make a second choice, is the one in the middle. It's the hybrid model, right? Based on those numbers, I would expect, and I don't know because I don't have them, that we'd have some going from each direction to either side, and we'd probably have a roughly a 6040 split going to school, not going to school. Where am I going with this? This is where I'm going with this. We talked about bussing. You did a survey on bussing. Roughly 50% of the kids don't use bussing. According to your survey, roughly another 25% of those people surveyed said we use bussing, but we could use another method, which leaves you about 25% who use bussing. Okay, 60%. If we had 60% of kids going to school and then 25% of that 60%, which gives us about 15% of the population would actually use school busses out of 1800 people.
NEXT> Jason Benware: That works out to about 240 kids. I've had several respondents send me messages and say this right now. The plan is damaging to me, my family, as from an

[10942-414] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: use another method, which leaves you about 25% who use bussing. Okay, 60%. If we had 60% of kids going to school and then 25% of that 60%, which gives us about 15% of the population would actually use school busses out of 1800 people.
TEXT> That works out to about 240 kids. I've had several respondents send me messages and say this right now. The plan is damaging to me,  my family, as from an economic standpoint, it's very going to be very difficult for me to work and provide for my family with my kids at home three days a week, trying to figure out how to  get childcare and and get them educated in the manner that they should be educated. Those people would much more be willing to figure out a way to get those kids to and from school on their own, than they would be crippled  economically from this plan.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Are you saying our plan. Cripples the economic like? I get that it's impactful, but we are not the drivers or intentionally.

[10942-435] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: progress one way or the other. So to me, it's it's not that they're their choice is really being ignored because it would be taken away one way or the other. Either we're going to move to full or we're going to move to remote.
TEXT> But again,  going with the survey that we both know, everybody knows. Yet most people, their preference as the word in the survey said, their preference is that their kids be back in school and the teachers, their preference is that the kids will be back in school. As Jason said. How did you phrase it? Because you phrased it. Well, would you would this be your first choice if you knew? What did you say?
NEXT> Jason Benware: I said. Given the the situation as it is today, understanding the risks that are involved with that, would you choose to send your kids to school full time or

[10942-446] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Oh I'm sorry, it's Rebecca.
TEXT> Yeah, I'm I'm just going to say something super salty. That's probably not going to make me a lot of friends, but I think that we need to remember that the sole purpose of school is to educate children. So  I feel terribly for parents who have to work, and I feel terribly for those of us who suffered during remote learning, and I feel terribly for the parents who are going to have to figure it out and all of that. And I totally get it. But our purpose is to educate kids. So the mean part of me thinks that it should be a parent's responsibility to figure out what they're going to do with their child. It's not the school's responsibility to figure it out. The hard part of me doesn't doesn't feel that way. The hard part of me worries about the parents and how they're going to manage economically as well. But I don't want to hear one person complaining about budget when it comes around. When we're talking about social emotional services and all of those other things that we provide. Because that is all I keep hearing about at budget time. I keep hearing parents should provide for their kids, and now I'm hearing the school should provide for the parents so that their kids can be in school so they can work.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So it's the whole thing is just like I said to someone else the other day, the irony is not lost on me in this whole situation.

[10942-452] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter by phone, Ward 1 (former Claremont School Board membe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jeff Small: I can hear you.
TEXT> Okay. This is Patrick. Adrian, Ward one. I'm going to speak as a parent. So I'm going to bite my tongue on anything related to the. Question about the structural opening. But I do have a couple questions as a parent, and I think it does kind of concern the remote learning. First one is, with the Wednesday  Personalized learning day, I was very concerned when I heard on Sunday mentioned a teacher prep day. I understand you're going to be doing cleaning in the schools. I have a I am adamant, I feel adamantly that that day should not be for teacher prep, for teacher planning for anything other than  if you have all the kids at home and we have the digital technology. It needs to be a structured school day. Teachers, parents, we, especially the elementary level. I understand the high school and the middle school have come different scheduling structures. So, you know, I understand that you can kind of use that a little bit more flexibly. I don't want to see what happened last year. I understand the end of the year. We needed kind of a day for making up work, but it was pretty much and many times became very kind of too loosely structured. Not a lot of kids doing academics, that needs so, so it cannot be a teacher prep day.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: The teachers need to be focused on their students that day. And I think Frank also nailed something very important, I guess, about the remote side of it. Unfortunately, I

[10942-453] Patrick Adrian | Public commenter by phone, Ward 1 (former Claremont School Board membe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Patrick Adrian: the year. We needed kind of a day for making up work, but it was pretty much and many times became very kind of too loosely structured. Not a lot of kids doing academics, that needs so, so it cannot be a teacher prep day.
TEXT> The teachers need to be focused on their students  that day. And I think Frank also nailed something very important, I guess, about the remote side of it. Unfortunately, I can't remember what that was, but, yeah, I,  I don't know. Yeah, I kind of worry about the. Okay, I know what it was. Yeah. We need to find out how is it going to work? Because I guess, and I understand what Donna McGowan was saying. It's not going to work that way, you know, because to say that the teachers, oh, they're going to have 12 kids in the classroom, the reality is they have 24, 12 are in remote, 12 in the classroom. I'm sure you're going to find some teachers are going to bring that up that, you know, they are being divided. And we do need to kind of figure out how are we going to address the kids who are at remote. How is that going to work? Because I, you know, really don't want to have this kind of, just putting a bunch of work on them that doesn't really connect to what happens when they get back into the classroom.
NEXT> Patrick Adrian: And the last thing I just want to bring up, it's been talked about. There's needs to be some measurable data, for how we are going to determine phases, sitting

[10942-462] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (addressed as Frank [723]; 'the chair doe | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: experience he had with remote learning. And we've heard that that it was very, very stressful for people and a little humor that algebra two was a dark chapter in the recent past for my older son and I, and I can relate to that.
TEXT> He is terrified by remote learning or hydrogen feels that students should be back in school. The last is from  former board member Steve Ski,  and he starts with some concerns regarding the the survey, very similar to what we've discussed around the the weighting of the of the of the different categories of different options for people and the, the other part that that Steve is unique on is that he feels that, financially, as a taxpayer,  when we've got people who are not working in the schools, that, there should be people, not people not being paid if they're not actually working in the schools. I think I'm capturing that. And, strong workmen call for special meeting a vote in the event of a district choosing the options of a part time schedule. And that's something we would have to discuss.  And again, about discrepancies in the budgets as the proposed budget, proposed schedule and the one that we're using. So I think that his concerns are with the, the survey and then the finances of having less than everybody back in school. And again, he thinks that everyone should be back in school. Those of you, everyone else who wrote  I know, I read them all. I think everybody on the board did. And, and we really appreciate it. There were many people who do support. I've read  we've had several, letters from teachers and different people who support the hybrid.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: There are people who support the full remote. I'm guessing I received 30 or 40 emails. And thank you to those of you, those many of you who, appreciate us

[10942-466] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: Hybrid like hybrid forever.
TEXT> Correct. So what I'm saying is that the hybrid model is going to transition either to full in time or full remote.  So. For me, I haven't there hasn't been a case made that it's safer. And I saw one comment from somebody who's watching the CCTV that they believed if one case came and we had half the school time, that would mean half the half the risk. And that's simply not the case. If we follow the CDC guidelines and if we're keeping kids in classrooms and moving teachers instead of kids, those kids would still be the same. Kids would still be in contact with that one child that brought the virus in. So you're not having or or or making a three quarter improvement in the risk of spreading to the rest of the school. It's really a nominal. It's it's  it's almost a  non it's almost a non-issue. It doesn't improve your safety. And so there hasn't been a case that this is safer a safer option because at any time the infection could occur if we go to full time. Also, there's been no case that transitioning this way is a better educational option.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Lastly, when I'm thinking about the teachers, I heard what Mr. Ward said. I had read his email as well. And to his point, I think the teachers are feeling

[10942-499] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (by phone; ASR 'Principal Bailey', 'Pat | 2020-08-05
PREV> Frank Sprague: So that there is actually. Go ahead.
TEXT> Hi. Thank you. Can you hear me? I just want to thank everybody for all the perspectives that you've given tonight. I've the problem. And what has kept most of us up for so many nights is that you're all right. There is no right. And there is no wrong. We can open and go back to 100%, but we cannot also meet the CDC guidelines. Those two are mutually exclusive. And that is the rub. So if we go back on September 3rd, 100%, there is no way in any of our buildings that we can maintain the distance. And follow what we have been told by the governor and by the CDC. That is where we are stuck. So if we are to do what we are told by the scientists and by everyone who has told us what we need to do to be safe, it does not give us  100% back in our schools at this time as an option. And so if we are to have six foot spacing, even three foot spacing, we can't have all our kids back in the building at the same time. And if we can figure out how to meet both of those needs and and and obey both of those masters at the same time, that has been the struggle. And that's why the hybrid is where we landed.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: So that we looking at it, if you want to call it a phase two, so that we could get our kids back in the classroom, even if it's only

[10942-500] Patricia Barry | Principal, Stevens High School (by phone; ASR 'Principal Bailey', 'Pat | 2020-08-05
PREV> Patricia Barry: the building at the same time. And if we can figure out how to meet both of those needs and and and obey both of those masters at the same time, that has been the struggle. And that's why the hybrid is where we landed.
TEXT> So that we looking at it, if you want to call it a phase two, so that we could get our kids back in the classroom, even if it's only for two hours a week with each of their teachers knowing that we've established an online presence that we are continuously upgrading and doing better with and with PD at the beginning of the year with our teachers. We can improve that system of online as a supplement and as a resource. So get our kids back in the classroom doing the things that don't translate well in virtual learning, and then continue to use virtual learning as that support system until the number is either go up and we make a choice in that direction, or  the numbers go down, or a vaccine comes out and we make a decision in the other direction. And that's why after so many weeks and 60 something people on that ask force, we came up with the recommendation we did for a hybrid, because when we looked at the numbers and the logistics of going back full time, we couldn't meet the requirements set to us by the governor and the CDC. So there's the rub, and I, I again, I want to just end by saying thank you to everybody because there's no right and wrong.
NEXT> Patricia Barry: And I know how much parents are suffering. Community is suffering. We want to get back to the schools. We want your kids back in the schools 100% of the

[10942-510] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Tempesta: recall, because we knew what our capacity issues were. We knew what the logistics were. We knew our representation of walkers, drivers, poverty, all those things. Inequity. So that's where we were, and that's why we came up with it in terms of transitioning back.
TEXT> It would probably take we would go for a month. We'd see if it's if it's fine immediately. There's no spikes anyway. We would look at the metric. We didn't get down. We didn't drill down to do the exact things. I know what you know, Newport has,  but we can look at area, you know, rates and things like that. And we could decide to go back. Our issue, as we saw it logistically, was we want to make sure we have enough drivers, we have enough capacity in. Our focus was just on getting our kids back into be very candid with you, our most at risk kids. Okay. That's that's  that we haven't seen for a very long time that we're that we're worried we're worried about all kids. But there are some kids where we need more check ins because of the quality of their lives and some major stressors to them. So that's that's what we were focused on. We know that we would transition. We also know, that we could transition back to remote. And that's what that's what we're afraid of if it goes the other way.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I know there's not evidence of that. We were looking at that. And at the time we were looking at, there wasn't even the spike in the South that there

[10942-554] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Heather Whitney: Which is what we have now.
TEXT> But we haven't. Like but we haven't compiled all the children yet. So it's that it's it doesn't. That's your that's what you that's what you believe. Yes. It's what you believe.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: It's zero. Zero no matter like zero plus.

[10942-557] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-08-05
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Zero based off one person not coming into the computer.
TEXT> You have. The. Differences when you. When you take the largest business. And you bring everybody back. Yes. Then we need to look. That's what we need to do. We need to bring everybody back and see what happens from them. Right. But it can happen November. Because that point. It still stays flatline. Then we look at okay it's it's staying flatline. It's there's no impact because you can't say it's zero and it's going to be zero because that's case you're putting you're putting everybody back together. I'm not saying that at all. This is what I'm trying to say. And I don't know how, how other way I can say is if the case has happened in January, after they haven't happened and we reopened because they haven't happened and they happen in January, it still happened. There's no way we can say that by doing this hybrid approach, we're mitigating that at all. Our numbers in the community are zero. Essentially zero zero children have been identified. All the children that have been tested that have been symptomatic in Claremont have tested negative up to this date, and they will test negative until they're not negative. And that can happen any time until we get a vaccine, which we are not going to get for children because they haven't even started trials on children.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: So if we're waiting for a vaccine, then it's then we might as well wait five more years. And if we're waiting for that one time, it's going to if

[10942-562] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (named by others: 'Richard's questions'  | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm guessing.
TEXT> Well, if you wouldn't mind, the, this is purely a financial question. If we are going to have teachers or staff in the building having to handle the kids that are in the building, and we're also going to ask them in the same course of the same day to handle a cadre of kids who are not in the building, which is a different teaching method, which is different, a whole different medium. I'm concerned whether or not we have adequate staff or adequate people to be able to handle 50% that are in the building, 50% that are out of the building on every day. So I'm just asking the question from a from a superintendent perspective, because I have a feeling that there is a significant financial ramification of half and half, but I'm not sure. So I'd just like to ask the question out there as or as we're looking at it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: There, there could be significant impact. So same thing when we're talking about and again, I don't want to we haven't met with the union yet, but but I've met

[10942-575] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 (addressed as 'Mr. Dempster' [744] and 'Mr. Temp | 2020-08-05
PREV> Michael Petrin: Not off, but you don't have kids in the building on Wednesday. Yeah, you might.
TEXT> Know, but we're following the the staff is following those. The kids that are off for services. We don't  they're there are some like PLC work groups and things like that with products. But the intent and we don't have this  completely fleshed. Now the curriculum team is still working on it, but  the intent of the, the,  the work is that there's a lot of particularly at the middle in the secondary levels, that there's a lot of group work and projects being done directed with other videos and things like that, where where you have a flip video created by the teacher and they're doing that. So that day is already prepped and that day is already have has expectations. And then they have to follow up with other things. Right.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So my point was to the the concern about adding more staff, because you're 100% in school and with the option of remote learning, you're still going to have to

[10942-665] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Unidentified: So what.
TEXT> We did is. We we put maybe. Three and I think I gave you a. Breakdown and we just the, the, I met with the committee. They said. Can we just. Look at. It and do it for. The year, just so that way it's straight across the board. And so I said, yeah. So all we did was we took  any, any. Fridays that were, early released and we brought them to a Wednesday. So that way it wouldn't impact the kids at all. It wouldn't. Take from either cohorts. And then we have the three PD PD days in front.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: And then the start date is September 8th or September 9th.

[10942-680] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: Yes.
TEXT> Is there somewhere in this calendar, then, where the kids who didn't get class? Because if the Thursday kids are going to get a class that day and you you might have said this and I just missed it completely.  So then somewhere down the line, the kids who didn't get that first  class are going to get caught up. You just.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Well, when we went through the whole we did it through the whole entire calendar. Just so that way we can make sure we count the days. So it would

[10942-681] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 (ASR 'McGowan'; cluster also carries H | 2020-08-05
PREV> Jason Benware: Thursday kids are going to get a class that day and you you might have said this and I just missed it completely. So then somewhere down the line, the kids who didn't get that first class are going to get caught up. You just.
TEXT> Well,  when we went through the whole we did it through the whole entire calendar. Just so that way we can make sure we count the days. So it would be exactly even through the whole year, it would be the kids would have exactly the even amount of days.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And so we have no expectation necessarily, then, of the kids being on the same material in the same weeks.

[10942-682] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: the whole we did it through the whole entire calendar. Just so that way we can make sure we count the days. So it would be exactly even through the whole year, it would be the kids would have exactly the even amount of days.
TEXT> And so we have no expectation necessarily, then, of the kids being on the same material in the same weeks.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: I'm sorry I say that again.

[10942-684] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (recognized as Jason repeatedly; cluster | 2020-08-05
PREV> Donna Magoon: I'm sorry I say that again.
TEXT> I'm saying that then we don't necessarily have the kids being on the same material in the same weeks. Right? Because if, if, if the kids are go on that Thursday, they're going to their material is going to be of course you're doing.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: Oh, I see what you're saying.

[10974-49] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair's opening segments [0]-[54] in th | 2020-09-02
PREV> Richard Seaman: some paving work around the back of the building. If you're familiar with where there was a sinkhole going in through some of the, where some of the storm drainage, which so that has been completed updating on bathroom stalls and, some other interior work.
TEXT> Was, big project related to the heating system. So the heating system was basically putting in heating controls all the way down. The. Is that the new wing or the old wing, the north wing that goes from and heads off to the north? A youth project. We are not quite completed with it. All of the piping has been done. All of the radiators are in some of the control part is still has to be completed. Will be completed prior to the heating season opening up.  But yeah, that was an enormous project. And thank you to the people in the building, because if you went in there during the summer, it was it was really torn up and it was appreciated.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Hey, Richard, since we're talking about designer and I'm just curious. It's unmuted in the in the Dennard repairs and things like that. Did we replace the fire panel there

[10974-74] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Now we're going to go to the superintendent's. We'll now go to the superintendent's report.
TEXT> Okay. So. We have double mikes. Double computers. Let's see what we have here.  How how's everyone on online sound check. Everything good. All right. So obviously we're we're really excited to have students back. It's been a long time over five months tomorrow. Teachers have been in constantly the past week. We've had some amazing professional development renovations inside the building. Some of the things that I'm just going to, we put a slideshow together to kind of take you in to what it's been like in the past week, and somewhat of a before and after, because, to be completely honest. A week ago in each school, you wouldn't think it looks like it's ready to go, like it is for tomorrow. So, first, those are I have a slide of our students in fall sports just getting back. And they're starting their workout. See how they are,  you know, spread out and trying to do that. In some cases, they're wearing masks. Some cases, they're spread out 5 or 10ft in there. They're not because they're exerting, this is a slide that takes us back to September of 2019  on a happy day in Maple.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And, it's going to be a little bit I use it for comparison purposes. To see what we have. Not that we're not going to have a happy day tomorrow,

[10974-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Learning the promise of.
TEXT> Of this and why it's so germane to. The reason it's so important for our kids. John Hattie was also one of the other coauthors. And the premise of this is in a couple of the sound bites that they that they talked about, and we obviously read the book to help lead the staff with it, is that we didn't really do remote teaching. Okay. It wasn't a remote teaching situation in the spring, right? It was crisis teaching. Everyone was ushered out in and we may do and things like that, but there's there's a lot of intentional PD and a lot of steps and a lot of recurring PD that will happen that the the team has put countless hours into  doing that, offering courses over the summer for folks to come in on their own time, which many of our staff did on their own time. The Stephen's gym was full. I passed through a couple of those people. Really took advantage of, really excited to get back with students and offer a lot of opportunities. So this is I was with at this juncture, we had multiple workshops today. I happen to attend this one in the afternoon for a little while with the Maple Crew.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And you can see them all, all spread out, socially distanced. This is another professional development we had talking about social emotional care. And in things like self-harm and suicidal

[10974-92] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: I believe. So you can see that the balance that we have achieved these might be slightly skewed. I think they were from a 3 or 4 days ago Saturday. Okay. So but they're but they're pretty much everyone is accounted for with the tracks.
TEXT> The see track is the remote track what you can see. And we did not anticipate this, that there were 161 remote students in the elementary school. We did not see that coming. Very high. But there was enough because those cohorts were large enough. We were able to dedicate teachers directly to their own class remotely. So that was not the case, as you can see. In the in the high school, in the middle school, where there are approximately 174 students. But you can't tease out you don't have because of the difference of subject matter certification in the specificity of the curriculum. You can't just tease out whole cohorts. You didn't have a complete set of English, you know, nine teachers. And  so those  we had to have the, the, the remote students in the classes and the C cohort with the other students as well. And that's explained on, on the website so that they have in addition to that, some of those students I believe, have some courses in other  types of offerings. Odyssey where but most of them follow the Google Classroom, just like the kids who are in the hybrid. But they have to do that remotely with some assistance from the teacher in the paraprofessional are pushing out information to them.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So that's that's what we have the most remarkable stat that we've seen in recent years. Okay, so last year at this time, we had six students requesting, to be

[10974-100] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Jason Benware: with, how did it work so that you could get a decent blend so you didn't get one class that had a lot of kids with needs in one class that had very few, or, you know what I mean? Did that work out okay?
TEXT> Well, one of the things that we were very, very no, one of the things we were very, very fortunate about is that, well, what we did at first is we we looked at our cohorts, so we followed kind of the high school did theirs, and then the middle school did theirs. And so we kind of followed that all the way down through and try. And the very first thing that we did is we looked at household members. So we put all household members together. Then it left us some flexibility. So if we saw that we had, you know, our B group had, you know, a lot of kids that may have, you know, needed more assistance. We could take those kids and move them to the A group. So we were able to have that flexibility to do that. So we were able to make some changes. So they didn't have that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: I just have a quick, quick question about the home schooling number. So it's my understanding it correct me if I'm wrong, that if a family request for their child

[10974-101] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: kids that may have, you know, needed more assistance. We could take those kids and move them to the A group. So we were able to have that flexibility to do that. So we were able to make some changes. So they didn't have that.
TEXT> I just have a quick, quick question about the home schooling number. So it's my understanding it correct me if I'm wrong, that if a family request for their child to be to go to the home school track, that they become independent of the school district, correct. And they're no longer being provided services from the school?
NEXT> Jason Benware: Yeah.

[10974-105] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: any time? Can somebody who has chosen to go to the home school model come back into the district? Yeah. Or is it at the end of the school year? Can you just, like, jump in and out of home school and. Yes you can.
TEXT> Yes. One of the things that that, you know,  that we look at, too, is what we reached out, you know, we reach out to a lot of the families because we wanted to make sure that they were aware that, you know, once you become homeschooled, the district is no longer responsible for your child, that that's something that you have to come up with the work and everything yourself. We don't have to provide anything to the families. And so a lot of them decided that they wanted to do that. We had quite a few that said, oh, I wasn't aware of that and came back to do do hybrid.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yes, Jason.

[10974-107] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Yes, Jason.
TEXT> So in that sense, and if you said that while I was killing the bee, I apologize. When we have people that go homeschool, then we we lose the state revenue for those kids.  How long do they have to be in rolled in the school for us to get that revenue? So in other words, if a kid becomes a homeschooler at the beginning of the year, then we lose the revenue from the state for that kid and it reduces what is it called our average daily attendance? Is that what it is? Yeah. So if then they choose at some point to come back to the school, how long must they be in the school for us to get their revenue back?  Do you know, I don't mean to throw this on anybody.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I think I think of that. I don't I don't know specifically for New Hampshire. I don't I think.

[10974-117] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and out. And so it's going to the wire like like it does. It's just a matter of degree each year. But we know that we have to up our game with that this year. And it's going to be a focus for us. Yes.
TEXT> This will be the probably the last one for a few minutes. Anyway. Do are we required to provide bussing for every student in the district.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Within a certain range? Yes. Yeah. We have they have to have access to that if we decide. As for a policy that we're going to eliminate that.

[10974-120] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: But the state of New Hampshire, the reason I question that is because there are certain districts within New Hampshire that are not providing.
TEXT> Saying, I was going to say, I don't think so, because I know my daughter's school district where she works, the elementary school, they bus, but then the kids go to a high school outside of where they, you know, outside of their town. And it's up to the parents to get their own kids to those schools. So I, I'm guessing, you know, I don't know, for 100% sure I can look into it, but I don't think it will private law to.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: In particular, in response to the current environment that we have with the virus, there are some districts that have opted out of providing bussing because of the issues with

[10974-121] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: know, outside of their town. And it's up to the parents to get their own kids to those schools. So I, I'm guessing, you know, I don't know, for 100% sure I can look into it, but I don't think it will private law to.
TEXT> In particular, in response to the current environment that we have with the virus, there are some districts that have opted out of providing bussing because of the issues with social distancing in the bussing to allow for full school attendance. So I just have some concerns that, you know, we may be presenting,  a, desire of the community to provide bussing versus a requisite for the community, for the district, to provide bussing for the community. And if that's a barrier to returning to, full end time school, then we may need to consider, how we feel about providing bussing to every student if it's going to be a barrier to having all students return to school who choose to return to school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: I think I think that there was a on the survey. That there was a question, I believe that sort of led to the, response that about 25% would have

[10974-142] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: We can all kind of.
TEXT> We just  obviously are the concern of the administrative team. And I will speak for all the, all the, the  all everyone is just the safety of the kids and it being unknown. And I, I get all of the, perspectives that, that were very low from the other. But I do think it's in terms of comparing the summer to the fall. And when people come back,  I think, maybe it's just psychological safety, maybe it's other types of things. I'm not, as I mentioned, but I do think, there are some other logistical concerns, including, you know, semesters when the grade cutoffs are how you did, you know, but I do think we should start. We should get that committee. We should start looking at it right away. And,  I mean, I'm not ready to propose a  date and time on that. I. I haven't even seen the document yet. We've been too busy opening school, you know? So, we have to get everyone in first. We have to get all the systems going, but we're we're open to start looking at that, because what we do know from this model, and  there's certainly not no one's in love with this model, believe me.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But we do know that it's going to take a lot of time. Just the communication of where we're going, getting all of those things, getting everything as to what

[10974-144] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: didn't have transportation, if we had this, what would prohibit a full there's a lot of a lot of moving parts in all of that. It's it's sounds somewhat simplistic, but there's a lot of information that to gather. So sooner the better, I guess.
TEXT> So can I, I just want to get a point of clarity to what you're saying, just so that I understand. And I'm going to let, like, go. When you say full open, you're saying those people who are out on home school, those people who are out on remote remain correct? You're talking about the kids who are currently currently here. Yeah, because I want to make sure that that's perfectly clear.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: So you're talking that the kids that are currently hybrid becoming full.

[10974-145] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: When you say full open, you're saying those people who are out on home school, those people who are out on remote remain correct? You're talking about the kids who are currently currently here. Yeah, because I want to make sure that that's perfectly clear.
TEXT> So you're talking that the kids that are currently hybrid becoming full.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: A and B.

[10974-147] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: A and B.
TEXT> And B, that what you would see is the kids that are remote may come. Some of them may want to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Come back.

[10974-163] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (medium - same voice as Speaker 24; work | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: know you keep mentioning, you know, having a committee work on it or whatever, but I'd really like to see a clear timeline on when we can review this type of stuff and, what our goal is for reopening and realistically, the timeline for that.
TEXT> Now, the other thing is that we keep talking about in my district is, the hot topic, actually all the every day this week and it sent me right over the edge is, you know, how are we going to do a full open like  where all, you know, planning for the hybrid and then at their next school board meeting, we could end up going full  open for all students if the school board decides that. So  I want to know what you guys think. The turnaround time to move back to a full reopen for cohorts A and B not see, would be because I think people don't understand that that's going to take a minute to a hot minute, because it's not just as simple as tossing all the kids back in a classroom. There's a lot of logistics that goes behind each and every detail. So what are your thoughts on how long that might take for the turnaround?  What are your thoughts on having a solid date? To be able to review this and think about a reopen, should it be prior to November? That's it.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Yeah. I mean just initially. So to have it's a matter of degree how we would space all of those kids and double the size. So if we're, if we're,

[10974-164] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: and every detail. So what are your thoughts on how long that might take for the turnaround? What are your thoughts on having a solid date? To be able to review this and think about a reopen, should it be prior to November? That's it.
TEXT> Yeah. I mean just initially. So to have it's a matter of degree how we would space all of those kids and double the size. So if we're, if we're, if we're going for under ten in a class to go into 20 in a class in the degree to which we,  you know, are encroaching upon the two foot guidance to have everyone in all at once, that type of thing. I mean, I think in, in if that's what you're going for, right? You want everyone back at least four days every day in person. Right. I don't know, we haven't.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Let me I haven't really spoken. So, I, I have the benefit of being retired. So I haven't been starting up a school this fall, thank God. So I've been

[10974-166] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: a that's a hard no elementary kids. Yeah. I don't I don't think there's a reason why not. We have to look at the numbers. We have to look at the bussing issues and things and really test people's the community's commitment to to that.
TEXT> Is this what you really want? Then you're going to have to step up and and get the kids to school.  So one of the other things that's in this guidance that I liked a lot  was most of the models that I've seen out there in the world are based on county infection rates, which is a good, safe, data driven way to go  based on infections per 10,000 of population. And if you look at New Hampshire right now in Sullivan County,  we are so far in the green for that that it's it's absurd that we're, you know, by a lot of standards that were were not in school. And I will say based on my motion, when we decided to go with the hybrid, I felt it was extremely important to give the administration and teachers and kids a chance to adapt to the interventions that we have put in place. To have everybody come back at once would be an overload, and all of our precautions would have been overwhelmed and failed. I'm confident of that. So but at this point in time, giving time for people to get up to speed on all the systems, I would support an early.  Earlier, little kids, later big kids. And I support what Rebecca said. I can see a committee  coming together, but I'm not sure how much they can improve on that document.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: That's great.

[10974-306] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: I mentioned in my emails, has been fruitless. It's frustrating. And and that's the hard part. I don't necessarily need to agree with your plan. But gosh, when I asked for information and no one of multiple people wants to even respond back to me.
TEXT> It's really hard to stomach, as someone who is a single parent and has been a member of this community for a very long time and pays taxes, owns a home, and literally said, don't worry about the busses, I'll figure it out. Even as a single parent, I'll find a way to get my child to school and back so you don't have to deal with that burden. So people who really need it, it's available to them, and I can't even get a response from you. And then to hear, you know, like the thing to the child will have you emailed anyone or have you told anyone? All of this is just really frustrating for me. I don't mean to sound like I'm coming down on you as an individual as much as this whole process, whether I agree with whether we should be in school or not. Goodness gracious you. You guys are the ones who are responsible for this. And the fact that I'm reading studies hours and hours before you, and that a child is suggesting something that you hadn't even considered or thought of.
NEXT> James Ward: And then I've emailed multiple times and can't get a response. It's very frustrating. And as I said, I'm not here to say that you're right or you're wrong and

[10974-307] James Ward | Public commenter by phone, Claremont (single parent of a Stevens stude | 2020-09-02
PREV> James Ward: be in school or not. Goodness gracious you. You guys are the ones who are responsible for this. And the fact that I'm reading studies hours and hours before you, and that a child is suggesting something that you hadn't even considered or thought of.
TEXT> And then I've emailed multiple times and can't get a response. It's very frustrating. And as I said, I'm not here to say that you're right or you're wrong and I'm right or you're wrong. The communication has been really, really hard to stomach. As someone who's outreaching, just trying to get an understanding of what needs to happen to make this plan work that you say is the best. And even when I say, okay, I can stomach your plan, I'll figure it out. If you think this is what's best for my child, I'm I'm I'm  on board for that. When I can't even get a response to that. I can't even imagine what you're dealing with. The people who are really frustrated and hurt and is going to, like, cripple them from a family or economic standpoint. And I'm I'm not trying to sound like I'm on a soapbox or I'm ranting. It's just you can't tell me that that. People who are trying to communicate with you and to make the best of the situation and stuff that you're being completely clear up front with, and I'm losing confidence in what my tax dollars are being spent on.
NEXT> James Ward: When you can't respond emails, you can't answer phone calls, nor can you even be aware of studies that I knew about long before you, as an individual person who's

[10974-363] Richard Seaman | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (chair's opening segments [0]-[54] in th | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: There's there's the CDC.
TEXT> Is there anything in that document that says they we will no longer maintain any degree of separation between our students?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: No. We can we can still maintain.

[10974-382] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: community thinks that what we did was, was not a good plan. So I just want to make sure that the people in the community out there that that like this plan, know that we do recognize that they did. They agreed with this plan.
TEXT> I personally, I think it's a very good plan to start because it gives people the opportunity to get their feet under them legs unto them. For the beginning of the school year. You've got a lot of interventions. It's easier to do with half the kids.
NEXT> Donna Magoon: And and I'm trying to I'm currently trying to find I every Friday I sit in with with Doctor Chan. And one of the questions, because my big thing was,

[10974-391] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member (medium - same voice as Speaker 24; work | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Petrin: So the 23rd is another Wednesday. That's three weeks from three weeks from today. Three calendar weeks from today.
TEXT> I would. Sorry I didn't raise my hand, but I would I would advocate for three weeks as opposed to two weeks for anything. Because and this isn't to take away from anybody, but unless you're in education, you do not understand  the magnitude of the decision making and everything that is going into right now, being able to get kids in, and whether you like the hybrid plan or not is a moot point at this point, because that's what's happening. And so there's so many millions of things that need to go into making that happen. And in a regular school year, it takes a couple of weeks to get acclimated in general. And I'm talking about kids who are conditioned to five days a week with with everything. Like, I can't even imagine how. People are going to hate me, but I can't imagine how, administrators and staff are going to be able to even comprehend trying to gather a whole bunch of new information when you're still trying to just figure out this information, whether you like it or not, and how to make it work for now. But I would I would advocate for three weeks minimum, and then I would just advocate for it to be a plan or something along those lines.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I do like this and it is the hot topic of today. I'm not going to lie, it is the hot topic, but it's hot to me because it makes

[10974-483] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yep.
TEXT> For administration. So a lot of the things that that come up have been like, the biggest question that I've been getting is, why are we not doing live instruction in the classroom for the kids at home? Can you guys explain the logistics behind that and the reasoning behind why? And I've heard some rumors that, tools for being able to do that were on back order. So can you just explain to the public why we are not doing that at this point in time, just to clear that up for everyone.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: For the first issue? When you're talking about back order. So we, we pre Covid had made the the move to go to 1 to 1 this year. We had

[10974-520] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Do that.
TEXT> That's a  that's a solid no for me. For a couple of reasons. So what we're saying is, is that sorry. I'll do that again. This is a no for me. So what we're saying is or what what you just said to me was and what was in the letter was, it's disingenuous because we're telling them they need to do something for others with nothing in return. But then in the next breath, we're saying, but it'll be great on your college transcripts. It'll be this and that and the other thing. So they're still getting something out of it. And I don't care one way or the other what necessarily. I do care that they they learn how to possibly do community service, because a lot of these kids probably would never get the notion of it without this being presented in this way. But secondly, even if they get nothing out of it and they do a mad scramble, there is a benefit because somebody is benefiting from this. There's a community benefit to this. And I'm I just have a hard time removing it from the,  from the curriculum.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So so, Richard, I'm going to pick your brain for a second.

[10974-541] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: for each year, I would I would do that. But I don't want to take community service away. Wondering if there's more to it than just what was in the email like. Is it a pain in the butt for tracking for school purposes, or.
TEXT> I don't  know, the kids fill out? Yeah. And then they bring it to the person. The person signs off on it, and then they bring it to the school and the school uploads it into the system.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: So and if kids aren't going on community service day, could we just not do that community service day? And then they'll have to figure it out.

[10974-544] Heather Whitney | Claremont School Board member | 2020-09-02
PREV> Donna Magoon: Like, you know.
TEXT> I, I would support more of a community experience versus community service. And I like the what's that? And I like the idea of students being able to job shadow, to be able to get out and maybe go to a day at Dartmouth or at another local college to just experience another way of living and seeing the world,  and to have it to be a growth opportunity. I think that that would benefit students, you know, and maybe motivate them a little bit more to engage.
NEXT> Unidentified: What did you call it?

[10974-593] Donna Magoon | Assistant Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: are still working on extensions. So the 65 classes that will not have to be retaken, that's progress, from previous years. So that that's something to be applauded, particularly in spite of of the situations out there. So I don't have anything more than that.
TEXT> I think it was just more informational that they, you know, that I know you wanted to look at seeing what it kind of looked like over the last few years. You can see that the dropout rates declining, which is a good thing. You know, we did have, of course, because of Covid, a little bit of issues.  But the kids were able to come back and, and do some really good things during the summer to get, you know, 65 classes. That's big, that's big. So and, and you may have seen on some of our, our, Facebook pages, kids that were graduating due to discredit recovery. So it was very successful this summer for our kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay. Thank you.

[10992-30] Shannon Popescu | SAU 6 Board member (Unity) (uncertain - sports update right after Eric | 2020-09-22
PREV> Unidentified: Not that long ago.
TEXT> Because of lack of participation. But we are starting with a younger group, and we've got a pretty good start with these kids, so it's exciting.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Anything for an update? All right. Well, if we're all good, we're on to the superintendent's report. Sure.

[10992-36] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-22
PREV> Michael Petrin: Sure.
TEXT> All right. So. So we had a just to talk about the opening of school in both unity and in Claremont. Off to a fantastic opening.  Particularly in unity. Great transition from the principal ship to Susan Schroeder, who was hit the ground running. No stranger to the unity. Just amazing things happening in the school. You can see the upper left picture for those at home. You see this? I tried to get both in both frames. The teachers kind of pining for the kids to come back all summer and all spring and just really excited about it. Kind of before and after, you can see some of the dividers that are visible. The plexiglass dividers made. Down here. We got a bunch up. To the school made here by the by the prisoners. And sharing those, you can see the cardboard dividers. Definitely an enormous change, you know, for everyone in both places.  In another. Another event. Second year seeing at the September 11th celebration at the flagpole. Absolutely. Moving remembrance. Just a great community event. Kid. Kids reciting, you know, essays of  of what it means to them, you know, years later.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's just just a just great thing. And then we had a the town meeting before that too, which went very well without a hitch. You can see the,

[10992-37] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2020-09-22
PREV> Michael Tempesta: for everyone in both places. In another. Another event. Second year seeing at the September 11th celebration at the flagpole. Absolutely. Moving remembrance. Just a great community event. Kid. Kids reciting, you know, essays of of what it means to them, you know, years later.
TEXT> And it's just just a just great thing. And then we had a the town meeting before that too, which went very well without a hitch. You can see the, the lonely social distance. Slide to the right with all the seats before from the upper deck. They. I thought they did a marvelous job spacing that  as well. And it went. It went really well. We have a budget. We're ready to go. Now we're going to start on the next one. Right. So so it was a great opening.  Similar. And Claremont reopened with the with the hybrid. And you can see some of the happy faces the kids again adjusting to the mass and things like that. The quote new normal. I have a couple slides in there. Board members went around. We're trying to get our numbers and talk to people about moving towards, as we were tasked to come up with, that, we'll be presenting tomorrow what the impacts will be to go back full remote sooner than we anticipated.  And we'll have more on that, more on that tomorrow. We thank you know, there's there's trade offs. We're going to have, you know, some some more data to go over and things like that in the about doing it with compliance.  But we'll have a whole presentation on that tomorrow.  But but that's all I have both both places. It's just amazing to see the kids back. The principals energized, the teachers energized.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: And it's very different than it was before. But it but it's things are going along very early and systematically a lot of planning, a lot a lot of people.

