[10274-227] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: So not all of the preschoolers are eligible for the program.
TEXT> So I have one last question. So we were cited by the state for being out of compliance that related to the students who had IEPs. Not either students. Correct?
NEXT> Diane Edwards: Yes. And so at that time, we weren't an early childhood model. We were considered a self-contained model. And that means more than 50% of the children were on I.

[10274-228] Diane Edwards | Director, early childhood (preschool) program, Claremont School Distri | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: So I have one last question. So we were cited by the state for being out of compliance that related to the students who had IEPs. Not either students. Correct?
TEXT> Yes. And so at that time, we weren't an early childhood model. We were considered a self-contained model. And that means more than 50% of the children were on I.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So yes, pertaining to the kids were identified, but.

[10274-229] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Diane Edwards: Yes. And so at that time, we weren't an early childhood model. We were considered a self-contained model. And that means more than 50% of the children were on I.
TEXT> So yes, pertaining to the kids were identified, but.
NEXT> Diane Edwards: That's who the program was serving.

[10274-258] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I just.
TEXT> Had a well, you usually ask questions after having questions. I just have a couple questions for on is it so is that sent out to all of the,  online folks? That  is there a letter that's drafted that says this is available if you're interested or does it go home with the kids in the backpacks?  I just kind of wondering how it's getting relayed related out. As beautiful as great job is when I make sure it gets out to the especially the parents and the children, because this shows how wonderful things are improving, especially over the last three years.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It hasn't been distributed via backpacks or to students, but I can look into how we can make that happen. It, my recommendation would not be to distribute via backpacks

[10274-285] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Cory LeClair: Claremont School District memorabilia, so I know you're involved with them. So maybe you can look into that and let us know what they currently have. And then maybe if there's something specific they're looking for, if we have duplicates, we could certainly discuss that.
TEXT> Okay.  Looks great off in that. If they want to do that because we're trying to plan a symptom with the homecoming this year. And the other thing about that was I asked about a document, if we could send it like,  it was a just a information flier. And I haven't received that yet.  However, do you do with the election whether I'm here or not after? I just wanted to kind of keep that in everybody's ears that,  you know, the Struggle Society program and how, you know, they'd like to reach a reach children more and get the children involved. And, you know, something that we're going to start really working on. So  with the alumni being part of it, and then, of course, you know, trying to get,  that so  if not elected to come back. Then  I just want to make sure before I go  that, that historical that we talked about just being able to, have a letter be sent out with the, Regular email that goes out to all the parents and stuff.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And I was supposed to send you the flier distribution policy, which I didn't do, but I'm doing right now, so you'll have that, so I apologize. That's all right.

[10274-288] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Food service contract.
TEXT> At our last meeting, when we were looking at the financials in terms of the student lunch debt, the question came up around the contract. It's the time of year for you as a board  to decide if you want to continue with the current contract, or make any sort of changes. So I'll talk just briefly and then largely turn it over to Mike, because he has much more information about this than I do. One of the things I've learned is the contract is, almost completely dictated by USDA federal guidelines. And,  our contract that you see in front of you,  the, the components that we actually can change in that are minimal. It's the budget and things of that nature. It's not the language in those contracts. Those are all predetermined. And we just fill in our few pieces. I can speak specifically to what additional pieces we fill in, but but it's largely out of our control.  One of the questions that I know came up, it might have been at the last meeting or at a previous meeting was what about the la carte options and how can we address those? So I reached out to the Department of Ed. Catherine Hodges is the individual at the department of editor who manages all of the contracts, and, Indicated that.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: If we're looking to, make a change to something like the a la carte options, if it's a substantive change, then we potentially would have to redo an RFP. So

[10274-305] Michael Petrin | Claremont School Board member; SAU 6 Vice Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jason Benware: Mean, I like.
TEXT> That. You're not going to get the kids. I mean, it's it's a nice, healthy lunch. You're providing adequate. Food and healthy food. But I think you do away with the debt problem.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: My thoughts kind of piggybacking on what Rebecca said, that, if we if we. In my mind, I'm still going to having done 10,000 lunch duties, probably, I think that,

[10274-306] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-03-06
PREV> Michael Petrin: That. You're not going to get the kids. I mean, it's it's a nice, healthy lunch. You're providing adequate. Food and healthy food. But I think you do away with the debt problem.
TEXT> My thoughts kind of piggybacking on what Rebecca said, that, if we if we. In my mind, I'm still going to having done 10,000 lunch duties, probably, I think that, the cart in the fact that the, the waters and the, the power aids and such, they're selling them and we're paying for it. The kids are drinking it. I think if we were to say, okay, no more vending machines, we're going to take the vending machines back. No more ice cream. We're going to put vending machines in for that, and we're going to get the money. In my mind, that's a substantive change to the contract, because I think that they they  planned on they plan on that when they make their bid that we can sell  so many Power eights and they're selling them at a good profit. I mean, if you  even if you went to Walmart and bought them for what they're selling them for, you're probably going to double or triple.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So this is the exact language from the state. If you decide to change provisions significantly within a renewal option, that would have caused the vendor to have issued a

[10274-316] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-06
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm somewhat in support of Mike's idea. You know, I think that if you want to simplify things and reduce cost. Provide people with a, An adequate lunch, but, you know, not the bells and whistles. It's not a bad idea. Just something to consider.
TEXT> I wanted to hear from our student rep as to he's graduating this year. He said four years, and he could probably give us a firsthand comparison as to how you think the program is going. And you've listened to our discussions, so you're well aware of what's going on. What would be your opinion?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Well.

[10274-373] Michelle Pierce | Claremont School Board member (final regular meeting before March 2019 | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Holy mackerel. So this we'll have we'll have to hopefully have them here next time.
TEXT> Michelle  I just wanted to  do I on this on your nuclear lunch bag thing. It's going to be a cost on both sides. So how do we know when the children who do get do not get?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I don't even feel like we need to worry about it right now. Honestly, Michelle, because that's not something implementing anytime soon.

[10274-385] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Let's move on to future agenda items.
TEXT> So  for future agenda items, if time permits in the 20th we'll do the high ready midyear discussion. And then one of the things that we are struggling with, with the impact of full year kindergarten is, something that actually came up earlier this evening in the preschool presentation is  our our data collection at the beginning of kindergarten is  much more anecdotal and developmentally appropriate for those students. Then something that's highly sophisticated that we see with some of our older students. So we have piloted using I already, for instance, with our kindergarten students, and we're using it more than we have in the past. But  having the, hard evidence or the hard data for that young of a children is challenging. So in terms of the impact of that, we're looking more at older grade levels and how students are  performing on, for instance, third grade, I already assessments  those who had full day kindergarten and those who didn't. Instead of looking at kindergarten data specifically. So it's just taken a little creativity to think about how do we actually measure the impact of full day kindergarten? Beyond the really positive anecdotal reports that we've gotten from first and second grade teachers? And so that might be a presentation that happens a little bit later as we can get.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Sort of working around some of those instant hurdles to figure out what are some good, solid, reliable, and repeatable ways to measure the impact of full day kindergarten. So,

[10294-87] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Representative.
TEXT> Report everyone. For those newly elected members of the school board. My name is Prescott Herzog. I'm one of the two school board representatives from Stephens High School.  I'm a sophomore, and I have here some information about all of our schools in the district,  in Claremont. So,  for the update for Stephens High School is the youth risk Behavior survey was given today to all students during a 60 minute advisory period. Students who opted out of the survey were in the auditorium during that time.  29 students will be leaving for the Washington, D.C., trip on 8th April first for five days, including a stop in New York City at the nine over 11 Memorial on the way home.  Our Thursday, our concert this Thursday is this Thursday?  March 21st in the auditorium. We will also be performing in the large group festival at Bow High School on Saturday, March 23rd  at 130 and 330. And youth and government students have been practicing running bills through committee. They went to pre on March 16th and will go to their overnight trip on March 5th and sixth.  We have students serving as Chairman of committees, co-chairs of committees and President pro tempore of the Senate.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Other students are also serving in the press corps as lobbyists and legislators at the sugar River Valley Technical Center. The culinary program at the tech provided 300 dinners over

[10294-88] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the board, Stevens High School (self-identif | 2019-03-20
PREV> Prescott Herzog: students have been practicing running bills through committee. They went to pre on March 16th and will go to their overnight trip on March 5th and sixth. We have students serving as Chairman of committees, co-chairs of committees and President pro tempore of the Senate.
TEXT> Other students are also serving in the press corps as lobbyists and legislators at the sugar River Valley Technical Center.  The culinary program at the tech provided 300 dinners over four days. At last week's dinner theater program, in collaboration with Stevens High School Theater program, a number of the students in the culinary program helped create the meal under chef, encouraging supervision. And also, the Tech Center on Sunday hosted a visit from New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. The roundtable discussion was focused on the opioid epidemic in America at Claremont Middle School. Finding our stride and new running club is starting in April. Coach Alyssa with lead the club starting March. I mean sorry. Monday, April 8th. Practices will be Monday and Wednesdays from 230 to 430, and the club is open to all grades. Also, the National Geographic Society is pleased to announce that Aiden Goodrich, a seventh grade student from Claremont Middle School, has qualified to advance to the New Hampshire state level of the geography be on March 29th  after winning the CMS. B Aidan's geography skills were tested again at all other school champions in the state, where he scored in the top 100.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: The principal says congratulations and way to show that Eagle Pride from Desert Elementary School. They were celebrating Doctor Seuss's birthday and read Across America Week. Students have been working

[10294-145] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: They want to see it on TV.
TEXT> Oh, Alexis. Call it. Sorry. Bryson. Wyman.  Wow. Thanks. Who is that again? Bryce Weymouth. Wait a minute, wait a minute.  Matt. Zealand galaxy. These kids are just killing my name. Clayton Wadsworth. I  can get that one correctly. My JV assistant coach, Jim March, and I'm Sean Wadsworth.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So how many years ago was it that you and I.

[10294-151] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: It's bowling, so it's near and dear.
TEXT> We've been runner up two other times, 2008 and 2012, 12 and 16,  2012, 2016. The good thing was, by winning this year, we beat Keene, who had everybody's number all year long. They just we knew at the beginning of that was the team that we were going to have to be, through the whole year. It's kind of funny because a couple of the kids that were on the team in 2016 when we lost to Keene, their siblings were on the team this year, which was kind of a cool thing where Sean Fitzpatrick junior was on the team in 16. Ian Fitzpatrick was on the team  this year.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: It was not here.

[10294-167] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Thanks.
TEXT> We will be coming to the board looking for because we're going to be looking for some donations. We're going to be buying getting jackets for all the the kids all the students.  Also we're looking to do rings. We've got quotes on both of those. I have a couple of people that are looking to, give fairly substantial donations to take care of it. I have one gentleman that wants to do all the jackets  on his own, which is about $980, so he wants to do that, and then we're going to we've got the rings kind of designed. We're working on that now. And then we'll know what the price is for that. So we'll be coming back to you for that, or at least how that works.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Is it so that there's an account that's been opened up at the. Well, we were going to.

[10294-180] Sean Wadsworth | Bowling coach, Stevens High School (self-identified 'I'm Sean Wadswort | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Oh, good. I'm so happy about that.
TEXT> So it seems it's funny because we put the post out and we're getting lots of interest in it, and it's not going to be a lot of money considering what the football team had to go. But the football team at that time had the bird gang, but we don't have that any longer at the high school, so we have to kind of do it individual. But the kids are pretty excited about it, trying to get it all done and.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Very proud.

[10294-191] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Okay. Okay. Acceptance of donations on the anticipated revenue wiped. Open up a public hearing.
TEXT> No, you don't have to open up a public hearing this evening. We need to schedule a public hearing for a future meeting.  And then I have a couple things. So there's two things for which we need to schedule a public hearing. Because the size of the,  amount. And then there's one that we can accept this evening. And Mike can speak more clearly to the RSA. 198 colon 20 B the notice of the public hearing and the requirement for that. So first I'll start with this. What I consider the more simple one is, the Stevens High School Spirit team has received a donation in the amount of $3,000 from the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation. I understand, that this needs to be approved by the board. And so,  the  funds are for,  in the past, they've used them to help purchase new uniforms for competition, paid for students to attend the UK summer camp.  And then,  some other things to support the, the team specifically. So  the Jack and Dorothy Byrne Foundation, as you've probably noticed, supports the Claremont School District extensively. And we are very grateful to  that particular foundation and what they offer  for our students and the opportunities that they allow our students to have that they otherwise would not be able to have. So this funding is for the spirit team at the Stevens High School. And on behalf of Jennifer Ferland, I'd like to request that we accept that donation.
NEXT> Jason Benware: To accept the donation from the Byrne Foundation for this team. Team second.

[10294-293] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: are one grade level below, it'll give them a different number to reach for than it would for a student who is on grade level. Their typical growth is the average growth. So that's the growth that we want to see in a typical student.
TEXT> And then there's a stretch growth. And it's just that it has two purposes really. The first purpose is to give students who are on or above grade level that extra push to get them to to go a little bit farther.  And this stretch growth. And the other purpose is to give students who are below grade level, the goal to get them closer to grade level. So it really serves two purposes. So this year. This is a new report for I ready. It's showing the district growth  from fall to winter. So the first half of the year that 75% that you see there  is the average growth for the district. So it could mean that there's students that have made more than 75% of their goal. Or it could be that they have less. And that's the average for the district. You'll see the, the typical growth. You'll see that 41% of our students across the district have reached their goal already. And this is as of January.  So I think that's pretty great for halfway through the year. And for the stretch growth, we have 17% of our students who have reached their stretch growth goal. So above and beyond what was expected. For their questions.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'll wait till the end.

[10294-316] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: So surprised. Yeah.
TEXT> So this is for reading. This is what our triangle looks like. And I like to focus really on the percentages. And in the gray  is where we were in the fall. So when the gray we had 32% of our students who were at risk tier three. And now it's only, it's gone down to 24%. So we've made some good growth there. Tier two, we were at 36% in the fall, and now we are at 29%. Again, that's a really good growth. And tier one, we want that number to go up. 32% of our students were in tier one in reading, and now we're almost at 50%. This is broken down by grade. So this is one through five, that 75% that we saw on the first slide for the district, this is just broken down by grade level. So we're at the median growth is 67% for first grade  all the way down. You can see the median progress for those grades. And then the next column it tells you what percentage of students have reached their goal already. So first grade 27% of our first graders have met their goal. 50% of third graders have met their goal already. And then the stretch growth and it goes and it goes over.  I like the last column. That's the percentage of students who have improved their placement. We really want them to be improving regardless of where they're at on the trajectory.
NEXT> Jason Benware: And I yeah, I, I so in grade three we show 99% of shown progress. It just simply means they've moved up. Yes, yes. Okay. Thank you.

[10294-335] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Exactly what I was thinking.
TEXT> Hence grade doesn't have that report and I, I looked into it. They don't they don't have it. But I do have some data to show how they were in a fall versus how they were in January, ninth and 10th grade. So you can in its color coded, ninth grade, 33% in the fall were red, 40% were red in tier three for, January. And you can see the numbers. I don't need to read that to you, but moving on to math, it's going to have the same looking reports 52% is our median progress towards typical growth for math across the district? Not as high as reading, but still in the 50% range. 27% of our students have reached their goal already in math. And again, that 32% in less than 19. That means that we, you know, they have some extra work to do. Our tier triangles. So 26% were in tier one at the beginning of the year, 40%. So we jumped from 26 to 40% and half of a year. Who were in tier one. And again, our other numbers went down. Yeah, the tier two, not so much. But tier one went down pretty much for under 20% now, which is in the grand scheme of our kids. That's not very many students. Yes. Heather.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Can you explain what the tears actually are telling us as far as where they are? Yeah. You are, of course, tier one proficient or.

[10294-389] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Oh, okay.
TEXT> Just I guess a question when we talk  about the seventh grade was, what did the  sixth grade I ready testing last year look like? And was there an indication from the  sixth grade testing last year that we would see this kind of result for seventh grade? Because obviously these kids were in sixth grade last year. Yeah. And if indeed it did not indicate that, then yeah, we really need to figure out what on earth happened in the last year. Yeah. If we had low test scores and we had low, low, progress last year, then we could certainly see there's a reason or at least a correlation. But if we don't see that correlation, then we really have to figure out what on earth is going on. Yeah.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So I can look at.

[10294-397] Bryn | Curriculum specialist PreK-5, Claremont School District; i-Ready prese | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: I know that there are certain children that just aren't quality test takers. Does this take any provisions for children like that?
TEXT> So  yeah, it does. They have the opportunity to earn points. It's kind of like a video game almost.  They earn points throughout their, they're their tests and their lessons,  and they get to, in the middle of their test. Stop them. They can take a brain break and play a little game on there. So it kind of releases that anxiety a little bit. I think it's also helpful that the kids are so used to it at this point that they know what to expect. I think that's helpful. There's training videos that they can watch if the teacher chooses to do that. So I think there's a lot of it's very appealing to kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: It's a computer adaptive assessment, meaning that it it asks harder questions or easier questions. A child is getting approximately half of them correct and half of them wrong. And

[10294-403] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: And we can kind of have conversations with students and say, you know, what was going on here? Because I know you know how to do this. But it's also really important for teachers to be actively proctoring to make sure that that's not happening.
TEXT> Jason, I also think it's important that the the lower grade levels to that, the teacher really explains to the kids the nature of the test and how it works.  Yeah. Because my little guy got very frustrated the first time he took it because it just kept asking him questions and they kept getting harder. And he didn't understand that that was a good thing. And so he kept at it and he kept with it. But it really bothered him. Because nobody said it's going to get tougher and tougher until he can't do it anymore. Yeah. So I think that's information that these kids really need.
NEXT> Bryn: To.

[10294-408] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Bryn: That is good feedback.
TEXT> I looked into the question a minute ago. What did sixth grade look like last year compared to this year? So one of the things to  consider is sixth grade. Last year in reading, we had, in the winter we had 35% of students on or above grade level. So if you look for placement distribution for seventh grade in the winter, you have 42% of our students on or above grade level. So it's that's not that different. We didn't have the typical and stretch growth charts last year. To be able to compare that. This is one of the new features to say this is typical growth courses stretch growth. And if you remember back to the beginning of Britain's presentation, she said, she said that last year, there was this it was a one page chart. You figured out where your grade level was or where your score was at the beginning of the year, and that would predict what your growth should be. And it was the same for everybody who started there. Now, we have the typical growth versus stretch growth. So they have a different growth model that they're using. So we I can't compare apples to apples for that particular. Data set.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Other questions.

[10294-413] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Cory LeClair: ago when we were first looking at things like this, new Hampshire is a tiny state. New Hampshire had their own standards, and a lot of the time what we were teaching in New Hampshire didn't necessarily match the standardized assessments that we were giving.
TEXT> So there was often a disconnect between what our internal assessments might have said and what external assessments might have said. Those are much more aligned now. And we've done a lot of curriculum work in the last several years to align that better, to ensure that what we're measuring our students on as what we're teaching them. But there's more alignment to still do there. But I would not be surprised to see a similar result on  our state assessments as well.
NEXT> Mary Woodman: All right.

[10294-470] Unidentified | Abbey Group regional manager (name heard as 'Jasa'/'Jace'/'Jason'; not | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: I guess I can running out of the food that was on the menu. How is that. So if somebody wanted to get say, pizza that day and, and you ran out early or, or pasta or something like that.
TEXT> So it's, it's like if you go to a restaurant for dinner and you go in and they're special that night, it's prime rib. You go in at 9:00 and they say, I'm sorry, sir, we're out of prime rib. Oh, I really came here for the prime rib, but you're not really going to leave. You're going to order something else. So we try to to make sure that we have enough hot meals for every student that we think will participate, but we can't manufacture a hot meal for every student. We'd be throwing food away. Right hand over.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: And we try to forecast.

[10294-472] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Deb Belanger: And we try to forecast.
TEXT> So I'm just wondering if there's a way to better plan for  that, because these are kids whose parents are picking out their meals, you know, online and via the menu that we see.  And that's what we're planning on our kids eating that day. And that's what they picked out. And had they known that they weren't going to get the spaghetti and meatballs, then they might not have chosen to get the hot lunch for the day. Like, I know my daughter has type one diabetes recently diagnosed, so if I'm putting her in for the menu on a spaghetti and meatballs and that's what I want her to get, I don't want her to not be able to access that and then have to choose something else. Otherwise I would just send it from home. So I think we just need to make sure we improve.
NEXT> Deb Belanger: Right.

[10294-482] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Yeah, it might be a pain in the butt to have to go, you know, individualize for everything. But it sounds like that might be a way to,
TEXT> I think we also want to keep in mind. The impact of doing that. And so you could have a scenario where, you know, when a kindergarten and a first grade classroom, it takes ten minutes to figure out what every kid wants to eat for lunch and lost ten minutes of instruction for the for the possibility that one of those kids might not get the exact meal they want for a month. So you have to weigh that too.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: But it sounds like you guys have that happening some in some schools already. It sounds to be helpful.

[10294-494] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair; re-elected chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Unidentified: batched, cooked. We really have moved away from processed foods, so our salad bars are in every one of your sites, and we're hoping that we continue to develop our menus so that the food is cooked fresh and and homemade as much as possible.
TEXT> I'm going to ask you a question.  Do you have everyone email all of the all of the clients email the kids. Do you have their emails?
NEXT> Unidentified: Yes, yes, yes.

[10294-578] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (director of business and finance) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Michael O'Neill: we went out, we put an RFP out, we got some quotes on school busses. We decided we were going to buy two additional propane busses. The 2020s models had some enhancements that we were interested in getting easy a cabin space, easy to operate.
TEXT> So we waited till the 2020s came out. Now we're at a point where we're ready to lease these busses in order to lease the busses, the school board is going to, basically put a resolution in place. Two, two reasons. One, that they will pay for the busses and it's been approved by the the voters. And two who can sign for the school on the bus lease is the other thing the board has to determine. So what you have in front of you is a resolution. It's not any different than any other resolution we do when we do a capital lease. It's basically just, agreeing with the again, with the funding and with the fact that somebody can sign on behalf of the school board.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Sign for it.

[10294-580] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (director of business and finance) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: Sign for it.
TEXT> But basically you authorize somebody at the you could authorize Corey could authorize me basically to sign the documents on behalf of the Sioux.  And as you can see in front of you, the, the under number two is the authorize individual goes. And then is this the signature of secretary, board chairman or other member of the governing body and then a signature, one additional person who can witness passage, this resolution, which might be Josh because he's on the other person here. I'm sorry. So I got you in that.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I could fill one of these out.

[10294-601] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: You want? Yeah.
TEXT> Go ahead. Be it resolved by the governing body of obliged as follows one. Determination of need. The Governing Body of obliges has determined that a true and very real need exists for the acquisition of the equipment described on exhibit A of the government obligation contract dated as of March 1st, 2019, between Claremont School District Oblige and Tax Exempt Leasing Corp. oblige. Two approval and authorization. The governing governing body of Obliges has determined that the contract, substantially in the form presented to this meeting, is in the best interests of the oblige for the acquisition of such equipment, and the Governing Body hereby approves the entering into of the contract by the oblige, and hereby designates and authorizes the following person to execute and deliver the contract on obliges behalf with such changes thereto as such person deems appropriate, and any related documents, including any escrow agreement necessary to the consummation of the transaction contemplated by the contract authorized individual. And that would be Mike O'Neill. Michael O'Neill. Number three. Adoption of resolution. The signatures below from the designated individuals from the Governing Body of the oblige for  evidence the adoption by the Governing Body of this resolution signed and I assume that signed by Frank the chairman and and then she's going to a test by Rebecca Zulu.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I second that whole thing.

[10294-692] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: That's one of the things about this time of year, is it? There's some so much testing going on. Sure. And there's a lot and it just it can be really be overload in the spring. Having been a testing coordinator, there's a lot.
TEXT> With the alternative. Then be including some of these questions into the family school climate survey questions because it sounds like for some of these family school questions, they're going to have to talk to the child anyway. I  should not be answering whether or not my student feels safe at school. I should be asking my child that. So could we incorporate some of those questions to the family side?
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Well, my student feels safe at school, is there?

[10294-694] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Well, my student feels safe at school, is there?
TEXT> I know, that's what I'm saying. I shouldn't be able to answer that for my child. I should be going to my child. Do you feel safe at school  if I'm doing my job as a parent? So I'm saying, should we at least incorporate some of these? I don't care whether or not my kid like school, but it would be nice to know that they feel safe at school. Or this the students treat each other well. Some of those questions seem pretty important.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: There's an adult at my school who will help me if I need it.

[10294-702] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Yeah. Can you just have this this conversation with the family one as a family? That's what I'm saying.
TEXT> Some of these, I feel like these are important, that a child should have the right to answer that. You know, I feel safe sharing my feelings with teachers at school.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: Independent of the parent.

[10294-705] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Rob Lovett Jr.: we cherry pick some of these? I and then to your point, if they're already doing a test when they go to turn in their test at the end, can they just a circle these 3 or 4 real quick? Give us some quick feedback.
TEXT> I'm actually with you on this one. I thought I in the very beginning like I, I, I don't think that too many kids are like I would love to see how many kids actually fill it out last year, but I still think it's so important to at least distribute it, especially for the kids who.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: I get that.

[10294-719] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair; re-elected vice chair this meeting | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: Versus just circling?
TEXT> Depends on the student stuff.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But I mean we've got we've got some suggestions out here. So, if you want this to be done, I think Corey probably would make sure it got done. So

[10294-777] Michael O'Neill | Business Administrator, SAU 6 (director of business and finance) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Jason Benware: 142,203 10.5. And then it says our encumbrance, we're still encumbered at 500, almost 592,000. Is that correct? Are we are we looking at having a shortfall of over $300,000 in our special education budget just for that one line?
TEXT> Well, yes and no. I mean, part of that is the fact that we've been, as we've been saying all along, we've been unable to hire employees. So in some cases we're forced to hire contracted services. So for example, I mean, there's a 20 different ways you can sort this report.  So when I started it by by object code, which is the salaries, the benefits, I have $400,000 left in salaries and $700,000 left in benefits. Part of that is being paid for through  outside services right now, because we're unable to find qualified people to fill some of the needs of these children. So what I do this time of the year, and I've met with all the department heads over the past week and and people to  have them look at what's encumbered, because what happens is they encumbered a lot at the beginning of the year sometimes if they don't need. So instead of me just closing purchase orders, I meet with them all. So they've all been studying that. So they're going to all come back with the responses. And Leslie is a new person doing it at the SA. And what I do is I look at the relationship, I say, okay, well, with three quarters of the way through the year, we should be three quarters of the way spent through that encumbrance.
NEXT> Michael O'Neill: But if it's half and half, I say, wait a minute, that doesn't make sense to me. What happens is two things we either over encumber or we don't properly

[10294-841] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Frank Sprague: Because there may be other there may be other things that we want to form committees. In fact, of full year kindergarten at a one funding spring, creating an ongoing.
TEXT> They are ongoing. Quite frankly, the BC and D really have to do with I don't have the capacity to pull those forward for you right now. Impact of full year kindergarten. Bryn has been working on that. The challenge is  lack of data. So when we had half day kindergarten, we didn't do, assessments the way we do them now. And even what we've talked about in terms of what we do for assessments now, it came up recently with the kindergarten screening assessments. And what do we use? Is it in-house? Is it something specific? We talked about the Bergens. So we're continually improving. I actually have a, email out to the superintendents list serve to ask how other districts are measuring the impact of full day kindergarten, to see if we can generate any ideas  that way. We looked at second or third. I forget which grade level scores for those students who had full day kindergarten versus those who didn't. Not a statistically significant difference. So, we also thought about asking first grade teachers, what have you noticed? We've had a significant amount of turnover in first grade teachers, so they don't have that comparison. So for the full day kindergarten presentation, we are struggling to find legitimate data to share with you to say what the impact of full day kindergarten is.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we're continuing to work on that. It's tentatively on here for April. I don't know that will have it in time for, you know, April. But it's it's not

[10294-852] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (Assistant Superintendent) | 2019-03-20
PREV> Mary Woodman: Yeah, yeah.
TEXT> So I didn't want you to think that we're just kicking that down the can, kicking the can down the street, whatever that saying is. We're working on it, but just haven't found anything. To. That is for value for your time  at this point. Yeah. We do have some other agenda items for the April 3rd meeting already that are brewing. So, one of which should be a memorandum of understanding between the Claremont School District and the Claremont Police Department. Just what is our working relationship back and forth? It,  they are fabulous supporters of the Claremont School District. This is just a process to formalize that relationship a little bit more than we have now. The administrators had a training on Monday evening. We had our legal counsel there, and we also had both our SRO, Crystal Simons and Chief Mark Chase, at the meeting talking about student investigations. How should they be conducted, what are the pitfalls? Who's responsible for what component of that? We ran through different scenarios, and it was it was awesome to have not only our administrative team in the room, but also to have the police department represented.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we can be very clear about how to handle delicate situations to have the best outcomes for kids. So we have a wonderful working relationship with them, and it

[10304-123] Mimi | Public commenter, Stevens High School employee (ASR 'Mimi, rise for on | 2019-03-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: And I believe that brings us up to date with all of our minutes. So we're we're good. Okay. Now, I would like to invite any citizens who have comments to please come up and state your name and let us know what you're thinking.
TEXT> Hi, guys. Mimi, rise for one. So I got a long time no see. I work at the high school. Just full disclosure before I started my comments.  I'm. Here to talk about our lunch program a little bit, because I know there have been some concerns, I guess, raised by at least the Claremont board and also board about the school lunch program, the quality, how it's running, etc. I can't speak to how it's run because I don't know that I eat school lunch every day, every day because I like school lunch. And so I'm in the lunch line with the kids every day. So I see the kids who get the hot meal. And for some of these kids, it's the only hot meal they get. You know, it is. Sometimes they get pop tarts on their way to school, they get home and it's it's, you know, whatever is in the fridge. Or it might be remarkable. Also hot, but not like, like, you know, full on hot meal. I know there have been some questions about, you know,  how it tastes and if kids enjoy it. And I think it's important to remember there are federal guidelines with what can go into school lunch. So they have to use whole grain things.
NEXT> Mimi: So sometimes the spaghetti is extra grainy, as I call it, but it doesn't mean it's not good. And again, the salad bar is just phenomenal. They do a great

[10304-126] Mimi | Public commenter, Stevens High School employee (ASR 'Mimi, rise for on | 2019-03-25
PREV> Unidentified: These these.
TEXT> Things are pretty good because they make parchment chips.  For the, you know, for lunches sometimes.  And I just, I, you know, I understand there have been issues. I'm not disagreeing with that at all.  I'm not. But it's also only year two of this program. So I think giving it time to grow a little bit. And I think keeping the hot lunch program is essential to allow our kids in our district to continue to thrive the way they have been and they can we hopefully continue have them thrive, because having a hot lunch in their bellies, a good way for them to get them through their school day, that's all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Thank you.

[10304-244] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (answers Zullo's contact question [355-35 | 2019-03-25
PREV> Cory LeClair: the average there is $2.33 per account. That's the bulk of our accounts only. Oh, an average of $2.33 868 of those accounts are free students, 105 of those accounts are reduced to students, and 854 of those accounts are students in full pay status.
TEXT> There are 64 accounts that owe a total of $15,162.30, so the average of those 64 accounts is $236.91 per student.  So the bulk of our student population owes, on average, very little. It's a small population of our total student population  that owes a significant  amount. Ten of those students are considered free, three are reduced, and 51 of those students are in full paid status. Two accounts right now? Oh, more than $500. However, one of those will be credited because they should have been identified as free via a direct certification process with the state since the beginning of the year. But that wasn't there was a different last name scenario, so it didn't pop up on the right arm.  So of those 64 accounts, 15 of them, oh, between 3 and $400. 23 of them. Oh, between 2 and $300 and 24 of them. Oh, between 1 and $200.  So one of the other responsibilities. I don't know what just happened with my computer. One of the other responsibilities of this position is contacting all of those families, establishing payment plans with families, having conversations with those families to ensure that their status is still accurate if it's changed  or not, then addressing those issues, if they have changed,  and digging in to determine.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Not only that, we have school lunch debt, but why do we have school lunch debt and being able to address more of the root cause issues? So beyond ensuring

[10304-268] Rebecca Zullo | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont; Claremont School Board Vice Chair) (cha | 2019-03-25
PREV> Cory LeClair: So all things that I have brought up to Abbey groups, tension, they are concerns and they the expectation is that they are being addressed by the Abbey group because those are not necessarily school district within the school district purview, those concerns.
TEXT> Okay. So I will just direct everybody to D. And then I think it's also important to mention that we did learn at our Claremont meeting that parents can call in and, and put a note on their kids account that they don't want to have. They don't want their kids to have all the cart, which I think is important because I still see conversations going on in regard to a la carte and all of that. So parents can be proactive. I think it's just important to mention that again.
NEXT> Marjorie Erickson: Jason.

[10304-270] Jason Benware | SAU 6 Board member (Claremont) (chair: 'comments on the minutes ... Ja | 2019-03-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Jason.
TEXT> Just a quick question. Does anybody know when the kid walks up there and they punch their number in? Right. Does a picture of the kid come up on the screen?
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Most of the time, as long as there's a picture of the student in the system, the picture does pop up on the screen.

[10304-271] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (answers Zullo's contact question [355-35 | 2019-03-25
PREV> Jason Benware: Just a quick question. Does anybody know when the kid walks up there and they punch their number in? Right. Does a picture of the kid come up on the screen?
TEXT> Most of the time, as long as there's a picture of the student in the system, the picture does pop up on the screen.
NEXT> Jason Benware: So curious about.

[10310-82] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Frank Sprague: event of the kicks off of very busy the rest of the year. With everything else that comes after us still, even after all these years, I hear them. Here we go. Here we go again. So. Thank you. Very good. All right. Superintendents report.
TEXT> I'm keeping it very brief tonight because we have a full agenda. I just would like to highlight and say. Thank you to. The folks from Dartmouth College who support our Manchester Museum trip. This will be the third year that our elementary students have been able to go to the  Shire.  And I should know the exact fraternity that sponsors this from Dartmouth.  It's a Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity at Dartmouth.  And so they host the event, they rent the museum. They engage with our students  and engage our students in the different,  exhibits at the museum. Our students then have pizza and get a slew  of, brand new books at the end that have been collected and donated by the the college students. And it's something that where  students are selected who,  somewhat randomly, but also try to try to invite students who otherwise wouldn't have the opportunity to go to the mansion  in any other capacity. And then we take a bus up with our kiddos for 530 start. And just to say thank you to that organization for their involvement with our schools. And then the the last piece is April is kindergarten registration month. So I know that ads are going in the newspaper. And Jessie mentioned it briefly, but, any child who turns five by September 30th, 2019 is is eligible to register for kindergarten.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So please contact your neighborhood school and register for kindergarten. And there are some other steps to that which, excuse me, can be found on the website or in the

[10310-138] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member (Jason Benware, Heather Whitney or Rob Lov | 2019-04-03
PREV> Katya: They were very.
TEXT> Packing days where everybody came and the kids learned what to pack.  And it was a transformative experience for all that attention. And you're I don't know how you do it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: So based upon that glowing review.

[10310-258] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (gives superintendent's report [105-111]; | 2019-04-03
PREV> Michael Petrin: You do?
TEXT> Well, I think so. And one of the things that I'd like to suggest we add to that agenda is, a partnership between the city of Claremont and the Claremont School District through their parks. And by that Maple Avenue abuts the Moody Park. And there's some potential grant funding available through Student Conservation Association and some other sources to build a bridge between  Maple Avenue and Moody Park so our students can access Moody Park for outdoor learning and outdoor education without traveling through communities or on streets or anything like that they can access directly from the school property. So I'd like to add that as an agenda topic for the joint meeting so that both bodies can discuss and hopefully agree to that. And I think that will just begin to pave the way for additional partnerships with the city to support outdoor education for our students and alternative learning environments for our students that are more engaging. For all of our kids.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Anything else? For the good of the order?

[10310-278] Rebecca Zullo | Claremont School Board Vice Chair (reports superintendent contract neg | 2019-04-03
PREV> Cory LeClair: There's a high likelihood that that person is watching and will message us here in a moment. But yes, I will.
TEXT> Okay. And the last thing is, I got the permission slip for Sophia, the kids to take the, student survey at school. And I was wondering if that's different from last year because I don't remember any of my.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Kids administer the student survey.

[10330-41] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Jason Benware: I'd like to make a motion to seal the minutes for 76 years. I second that.
TEXT> And it was bustling with activity this time of year.  The Claremont Youth Baseball Softball Association is in full swing with many teams down there. And we also had high school and middle school teams practicing. And so the spring sports season is in full swing.  Vacation is next week for all Claremont School District kiddos. And so there are, I know, some vacation camps being offered by different organizations around the community,  but there will be no school for students next week. This time of year, with the weather being nicer and able  to get outside. The fire drills start again. We tend to take a hiatus from those in the winter. And so you'll be seeing more students outside,  in groups. And so just know that most likely it's a scheduled drill and that's why they're outside.  Maple math night is tomorrow night. And so they're starting with a spaghetti dinner at 530, and then a math event for all Maple Avenue students.  And they had their big PTO raffle fundraiser recently. And I believe they're drawing the winners tomorrow night. So if any of you bought raffle tickets for the Maple Leaf PTO raffle.  Hopefully you're lucky enough to be the winner of one of those baskets.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And there are more spring events than I can name in a reasonable amount of time, so just make sure to be checking the city website for the calendar and

[10330-45] Alicia Seminole | Fourth grade teacher, Bluff Elementary School (self-identified 'Alicia | 2019-04-17
PREV> Cory LeClair: We have a Jones and Alicia Seminole, fourth grade teachers from Black Elementary here to do a brief presentation for you. About their request to attend their fourth grade field trip.
TEXT> We have prepared. And then it went off. Okay. So, Good evening. Good evening. Alicia. Seminole. Fourth grade law school. Zina Jones. And,  we're here to share with you our love for our trip that we go on every year to the White Mountains with our fourth graders.  The brainchild of Miss Jones, who has been leading this trip for 20 years. It was her idea, and,  she's been doing a wonderful job with it for 20 years. We're going in June.  And  we go for two days, and we go Thursday night. We we leave early in the morning, 645 in the morning. We we go all day and have fun at the flume.  We take kids up to Mount Washington on the railway, and we stay the night at Indian Head  Mountain Resort. And we had pizza and pools, party, pool fun. And the next day, we go up to the top of Cannon Mountain on a tram, and we go hiking and, then we go to lost River and the kids go through the caves. And because our New Hampshire curriculum, our curriculum provides that we teach about New Hampshire. We like to take kids to the places that they learn about. So we've put together a little PowerPoint. And, is there anything you'd like to add, Miss Jones, before PowerPoint?  We're good. I think. Cannon Mountain, too. Yeah. Yeah. On the tram. So, if you have any questions at the end, just let us know.
NEXT> Unidentified: So that's it? Very nice. As you can tell. We really.

[10330-56] Alicia Seminole | Fourth grade teacher, Bluff Elementary School (self-identified 'Alicia | 2019-04-17
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> And the bluff staff really pulls together. You know, it's all staff members who go on the trip. 12 of us are going this year. And, you know, just every single person is just willing to spend their time with the children of Claremont. And again, I can't say enough about Zina Jones. This was her brainchild from so long ago, and she's just always kept it going. It's not an easy thing to do.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[10330-96] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member (votes 'Yes' right after clerk calls 'Ja | 2019-04-17
PREV> Unidentified: All right. Good.
TEXT> For perspectives sake, I just wanted to point out that if you if you do the math on it, the bulk of the money is owed by only about 3.5% of the population of the students in the school. So when you look at 67 out of 1875 kids, it's a very small percentage owing this. So this is not as someone to believe this widespread cancer. It's a it's a relatively small population creating the vast majority of this. Just just for perspective sake, it's obviously still a problem, but it's not a problem for a ton of people. It's a small group that that is sort of this is coming from. So I think that's important.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right. So it's 52 students that are paid status, which means they need they would pay in full the 14 free or reduced. How are they accruing a debt if

[10330-98] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: are paid status, which means they need they would pay in full the 14 free or reduced. How are they accruing a debt if they're supposed to be free. Is that is that buying extra items. So that's free or reduced. Children that are buying.
TEXT> It's either buying extra items or they,  either  allowed the you have to reapply for free or reduced lunch every school year. It carries over for the first 30 days to ensure that the student status is in place at the start of the school year, so parents have time to complete that paperwork.  But after the first 30 days, that status lapses and  it doesn't get reestablished until new paperwork is completed and submitted. So  some of the debt accrued by students who are now eligible for free or reduced was accrued in that window after their last year eligibility lapsed, and this year, eligibility kicked in  based on the,  one that the parents submitted their application or it was accrued  by by students who didn't have any sort of status from last year. Maybe they were new to us this year or last year. They were full paid status and some change occurred within their financial structure. And now when they  finally did apply this year, they were eligible. So it's a matter of those students  had either a period of time when they were ineligible for free or reduced lunch, or they accrued,  debt through other means. So if you're free or reduced status, what is considered free or reduced is a single reimbursable meal that day. So anything beyond one single reimbursable meal does not fall into that free or reduced category.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: When I worked at the high school, one of the big scrambles is typically, I think it was before the first graduation practice that the scramble would take place. Exactly.

[10330-165] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'This is the clear' [8]; gives su | 2019-04-17
PREV> Frank Sprague: Are you looking for a motion to a.
TEXT> Motion to approve this? And then I would have,  Frank, sign on behalf of  the board,  the agreement. And then I would sign as.
NEXT> Unidentified: Well.

[10350-14] Josh Malloy | Director of Technology, SAU 6 (introduced by LeClair [2]; 'questions f | 2019-05-01
PREV> Cory LeClair: Can you are you able to speak to why? Which why? Certain buildings, have funds assigned to them and others do not.
TEXT> Direct funds were for Claremont. School District. They weren't specifically for any building. That assignment was what I did with the funds. Once we got them, it was for teacher laptops at Bluff Maple because they were in they were in the queue, but they didn't get funded. Last year when we asked for funds for computer replacement. So we utilize the E-Rate funds to to kind of move forward those replacements for the teacher laptops and also for some Chromebooks that were needed for the students. And then the rest of the funds were for  AV at the AV at bluff, because we were trying to get that done this year because that wasn't included in the budget for next year. But we have the other two elementary schools set up for AV improvements in their multi-purpose rooms, but not at bluff. So we're trying to get that done with the funds this year, but I'm not sure if that's still whatever. But  and then there's  server upgrades, so we haven't really budgeted for our servers. And most of our servers are in really rough shape right now.
NEXT> Unidentified: So basically it comes in one chunk and you divvy where it needs to be. Yeah. Yeah okay.

[10350-24] Unidentified | Member of the Merrow family (donor family of Paul Merrow bequest) | 2019-05-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: The microphone comes off the.
TEXT> Stevens High School and and he did think a lot of them. And he played, as you said, football and basketball and and very much active in the Athletics. And he also played in the band. So we  the family decided that we would like to give some money to the band  and the  arts department so that they can put on more shows. Yeah. My Uncle Paul was a  very dedicated to Stevens High School. He I don't think he missed too many of his class reunions. He always donated every year  to the alumni association. And he was very I mean, up until a couple years before he died, he was very adamant about making sure that Stevens High School was included in his thoughts even after he passed away. I just want to say that my uncle, because he was so  dedicated to the school, he made sure we were to. So. So it's carried in our blood to. Yeah. I can't thank you enough. It's  unbelievably generous. We  have headphones that we're using right now that, you know, I can't even hear.  And the division we play in is so competitive, one of the first things we're going to do is get some headphones so that we can actually hear each other  throughout the game,  but it'll, you know, the kids are going to benefit so much from, you know, this generous donation.
NEXT> Unidentified: I can't thank you enough on behalf of the coaches and the program in the school. It's it's amazing. Thank you very much.

[10350-25] Unidentified | Stevens High School football coach (name not stated) | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: is so competitive, one of the first things we're going to do is get some headphones so that we can actually hear each other throughout the game, but it'll, you know, the kids are going to benefit so much from, you know, this generous donation.
TEXT> I can't thank you enough on behalf of the coaches and the program in the school.  It's it's amazing. Thank you very much.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we would also ask, because of the.

[10350-79] Unidentified | Unidentified - board member, Michael Petrin or Rob Lovett Jr. (not sep | 2019-05-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Policies.
TEXT> We're going to continue from there under the individual goals, which will be page three for mine specifically. I can't speak for everyone's, but it said create investments balance studies needed in tax impact. It was actually balance student needs. Studies needed. And then Heather Whitney again. Her name is listed as Heather. Whiny.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Sorry. Heather. Sorry.

[10350-106] Unidentified | Student representative (Stevens High School; name not stated; refers t | 2019-05-01
PREV> Unidentified: Band participated in the Wind Invitational. That was today. I was there all day and they were able to witness university level performance and along with working with professional music directors, both of whom were composers of pieces that were playing at the upcoming concert.
TEXT> Which will be on May 23rd. I think I have that in here somewhere, but the Stevens High School prom is this Saturday, May 4th at 7 p.m., with the Grand March starting at 6 p.m.. It's being put on by the class of 2020, with the theme being Night of Enchantment, which is essentially a Harry Potter or Ball  theme. There will be a Friends of Music meeting on Wednesday, May 8th from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Music Room. The Stevens High School choir and musical theater classes will be attending music in the parks competition on Saturday, May 11th, and this day includes a competition with other schools in the morning and afternoon spent at Six Flags in Agawam, Massachusetts, and an evening award ceremony which is also held at the park. Representatives from the Stevens Youth and Government Group and Student Council. This is for Miss Lewis gave me. This will be coming  to report on their endeavors to the school board at the meeting on May 15th. I believe that she told me, the Stevens High School Musical theater and dancing choreography classes will be putting on their performance of The Lion King Junior  on the following dates.
NEXT> Unidentified: So we have Thursday, May 16th, Friday, May 17th and Saturday, May 18th at 7 p.m. and a Sunday showing May 19th at 2 p.m. currently listed. Tickets will be

[10350-245] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: opportunities to get together as a cohort on a monthly basis. So the seven different districts are getting together, talking about the work they're doing, talking about the barriers that they've come across, and really trying to work through some of the processes and programs.
TEXT> That's happening. So the system of care really, the work that's being done is taking a look at the activities and services that are taking place. I'll kind of hit on the, priorities here in a minute, but taking a look at the activities and services that are available within any given region. So you can imagine across the seven different regions, they have a different variety of services for students within that area. Further out from that, we're taking a look at the infrastructure that's there to support or not there to support the work. And then what policies affect that or impede growth and progress. So the things that we are taking a look at is promoting early childhood social and emotional development, making sure our students are ready and willing and able to learn when they're entering kindergarten, when they're entering preschool grade school, promoting mental health, emotional health and behavioral health as well. So what does that look like for our students and our families in the community? Also connecting more with families, schools and communities. How can we  be opening opening conversations, two way conversations with families, making sure that we're soliciting feedback in a way that's informing decisions that are being made and changing those as, as appropriate in regard to culture and climate as things change within our area.
NEXT> Trinity Early: What's that look like? So always kind of revisiting the ways in which we do things. Is it the needs of our community? The last piece is creating safe and

[10350-246] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: can we be opening opening conversations, two way conversations with families, making sure that we're soliciting feedback in a way that's informing decisions that are being made and changing those as, as appropriate in regard to culture and climate as things change within our area.
TEXT> What's that look like? So always kind of revisiting the ways in which we do things. Is it the needs of our community? The last piece is creating safe and violence free schools as well. Each of these are kind of big, broad umbrellas, and there's a lot that goes into, each of these pieces. And I'll go over what we've been doing recently. So there's a lot of dollars that can be put into training for staff, for community members, service providers within the community, teachers, students, bringing youth mental health first aid. We have a partnership with the New Hampshire Doe and West Central Behavioral Health as well  can come out to any area agency, any school, and provide youth mental health first aid to its staff to parties that might be interested in that. We're ramping up our trauma informed care and learning more about how trauma affects the learning and the the brain science of the students that are experiencing Trump  trauma at home, trauma within the community, and what that means for their learning.  We just recently had a conversations on culture and diversity. So again, I mentioned kind of, you know, how are we adjusting to an ever changing population?
NEXT> Trinity Early: How are we valuing their cultures, their values, and their belief systems in the work that we're doing? And also taking a look at mindfulness practices, yoga practices, things like

[10350-248] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: student, rank a really high score there just so that we can kind of, pay a little more attention to that student and start building in skills in maybe adapt learning and teaching a little bit, just knowing kind of where the kiddos coming from.
TEXT> The Youth Risk Behavior Survey is another piece that we're working on. Typically this is done at the high school level. We're now getting ready to do it at the middle school level as well. So a lot of the work that we're doing is with, substance misuse. When do students in kids start using marijuana, vaping, drugs, alcohol, all of that? The Youth Risk Behavior survey will essentially get to that, get hopefully some answers so that we can focus our prevention efforts in areas that make sense. For the Claremont Group in area, we're seeing an uptick in vaping, over the past few years because it doesn't smell. You can hide it a lot. It's different than the cigarette smoking back in the day. So that's something that's definitely kind of ticking up in that we're looking to address. Next year we are working on implementing Miss Kendra in all of the kindergarten classes in the fall. So this program is really focused on building empathy and coping skills. Within this will be with the kindergarten students. So essentially when they're coming through the door from the get go, learning how to talk about difficult situations, giving them the opportunity to do so, and the words and the support about who can you go to in a situation like this?
NEXT> Trinity Early: Newport has they just started this last year there. You're having amazing results, getting a lot of parent by in feedback. Parents are showing up to schools for events that

[10350-249] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: kindergarten students. So essentially when they're coming through the door from the get go, learning how to talk about difficult situations, giving them the opportunity to do so, and the words and the support about who can you go to in a situation like this?
TEXT> Newport has they just started this last year there. You're having amazing results, getting a lot of parent by in feedback. Parents are showing up to schools for events that they're holding as well. And at last time we talked with him,  nobody opted out of the program at all. They're finding a lot of value in it. So we're partnering with TLC, Family Resource Center and Melanie Williams there. She's a clinician. And then we'll also be training Paige McClay here within district to be deploying this within our kindergartners this upcoming year. So really good to see, school based therapy at bluff, Dessner and Maple. This essentially came out of asking, asking principals and counselors kind of what the need was, what they were seeing or not seeing for their students, and they were finding that a lot of students could benefit from getting one on one counseling and therapy, but weren't necessarily accessing the services outside at West Central Counseling Associates, things like that. It could have been for transportation reasons, stigma reasons, conflict with work, with parents, getting students to the appointments themselves, or just a hesitation about venturing down that road. And by bringing that to the schools. Up until now, it just it started last March. We've had over 30 students  accessing one on one counseling, within the school setting.
NEXT> Trinity Early: So typically they're they'll be pulled from the classroom, get to see the same clinician every week and start working through that. Our hope. So right now, the grant has

[10350-252] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: next few days? So that's just getting off the ground. Up and running. But we've had great, great response from the folks in town and cross cross agency partnerships to make this happen. So in the very early stages, but hopeful about what that means.
TEXT> Always working on community outreach and promotion of resources. So anything in regard to mental health, well-being, health, wellness, all of that. Anytime that we can share the word about what's going on. Constantly trying to promote or blend funds together to better support the work that's taking place. Something else that we're exploring is the Drug Free Communities Grant. So I mentioned the Youth Risk Behavior survey that's done at the high school. Part of that, piece is realizing that there isn't strong prevention work that's necessarily taking place in Claremont, or it's not as coordinated as it could be by applying for this grant. Down the line, what it would essentially do is, we would receive the funds so that we can essentially hire a coordinator for five years to be heavily focused on prevention. So taking we would focus on marijuana use alcohol and vaping and really focus on middle school age. What's that look like? What do they need as far as preventative measures, when and how are they starting and putting a lot of time and effort into hopefully preventing their early start and use of any of those drugs? And the community film series, we're always, typically showing on a kind of rotation, depending on availability, different screenings in regard to, screen time and screen use in regard to trauma, in regard to the hungry heart.
NEXT> Trinity Early: I believe is the opioid one. So drug use as well. Anything to bring out awareness to the community. We've been doing those lots of partnerships are being built. This

[10350-254] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Trinity Early: to plan and deliver supports and services that build on family identified strengths, needs. And the goal is to keep families and students here within their community to have them be productive and safe within that environment. So currently I'm going to jump through this.
TEXT> We have, two wrap coordinators, Caitlin and Kelly. They are specifically assigned to families within our school district  right now. Or up until this point, we've had 49 referrals so far received across the across the district. Referral typically looks like somebody that's having trouble being successful within school, is suffering from an emotional disorder that gets in the way of their learning, that impedes their everyday lives, impedes with their family structure, looks like, and really could just use some coordinated supports and services,  built around them. We have 16 youth and their families currently enrolled. The age range of the students that were directly serving are 5 to 17. And among those 16 families there's over 35 youths. So although we have 16 youth enrolled among their families, we have over 35 students that we're affecting and working with on a, you know, not a daily basis, but an ongoing basis to essentially build that foundation and that structure to help the families become more successful. With this grant phasing out in less than 18 months, the state is looking at a sustainability plan, and it's looking like switching over the Wrap coordinators would be funded through DHHS. So right now, what we're essentially doing is, Caitlin and Kelly are receiving all of the training, the skills, the critical time that essentially they'll walk out of here employable in this particular, in this particular field as a wrap coordinator.
NEXT> Trinity Early: And the goal is essentially to have fast forward wrap coordinators all over the state, and you would call the s, and then families would then be referred that way.

[10350-259] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: it, because I'm a huge fan of that. So that made my day. The second thing is what happens when the grant is gone. What happens to all of these programs that we're implementing now and all the good things that are going on with.
TEXT> Yeah. So through all of this, essentially trying to build systems, like Miss Kendra where  we're able to train internally. So like we're training page, for example, internally to be able to roll out Miss Kendra and hopes that she can continue to do so as part of her work. The Fast Forward coordinators are being taken on by DHHS as you know as well, so families within our area will still be receiving those supports and services. There's a lot of funding opportunities that come up, typically all in the forms of grants. So the Drug Free Communities grant, for example, is focusing on the drug prevention. It would bring in the Youth Risk Behavior Survey. They ask, you see, that is being brought in, is being wrapped into the overall kindergarten screening process. Essentially when  our staff goes away, if not sustained, that will be housed within each school as well to make those things going on. The one piece that does fall apart is kind of that, school connectedness, like, so that's something to be kind of looking for. I'm looking at grant funding essentially for my position moving forward. What's that look like? I was just at a meeting today. It was a community partners meeting with 40 plus people, area service providers and everything that is available.
NEXT> Trinity Early: It's a time for us to get together, but having the school at the table is important for our community and families. So that's something that I'll be looking at

[10350-263] Trinity Early | Program Director, System of Care / Fast Forward grant (introduced by L | 2019-05-01
PREV> Carolyn Towle: No.
TEXT> So it's not a trigger per se. It's really just a benchmark of where the students are coming in. It's something that at least within our office, we've taken a look at. Oftentimes, some of the students that we see later referred for Fast Forward were those higher, higher scored children. It doesn't automatically, doesn't trigger a referral, doesn't trigger special ed or anything like that. So it's really just benchmarking. The other thing that we were taking a look is you can look through all of the surveys and find, you know, do we have a kindergarten that's coming in and they're really lacking coping skills? If so, what does that mean for the curriculum? Is there a way to embed that within some of the teaching that's already taking place. So that's really kind of what it's looking like.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Anyone else. Thank you. Thank you.

[10350-267] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 (chair: 'look to Mrs. LeClaire' [0], 'tel | 2019-05-01
PREV> Frank Sprague: Transition to future agenda items and everything here. We've deferred to the fall.
TEXT> So we do have our May 15th meeting coming up. The start of the May 15th meeting will be the special procedural defect meeting. And then there will be a regular board meeting immediately following that.  And I know right now we I believe Jesse had a report from was it youth in government.
NEXT> Unidentified: And the student. Council.

[10350-307] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens hearings and meeting, runs agenda  | 2019-05-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: I took offense to that, by the way.
TEXT> Well, you were one of the youngest ones there. So but there were there was a very older crowd, and there were, there were people there from sunup, and they were from everywhere. They're all the communities in the greater Sullivan County district, but they're looking for engagement. And I think that that's a huge thing for young people to get involved with. Is, is school funding? There's no real easy answer to this. But the. Statistics on the the income we are the have the highest, fourth, highest income meet median income in the country. And one of the lowest tax burdens in the country as far as what people pay in taxes. So that was that was some of the takeaways. I'm going to share a date with you. All that I got. And I'm actually I'm actually going to go to this myself. On Tuesday, May 7th at 1:00, there's a Senate Finance Committee public hearing. And some of you I received an email about this today. I may have. I have from Tom and Charlene. Representatives Hall, second floor of the Senate House.  An opportunity to testify, which I will take. I'll. I am going to this. There's another opportunity Wednesday the eighth at 7:00 in Manchester. And I'm basically what I'm going to be talking about is the impact of having been dealing with budgets here for as a board member.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Now for my going on my fifth term, fifth year, sixth year. And what I see, see the effect of the taxes on the community. I had a conversation with

[10350-310] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens hearings and meeting, runs agenda  | 2019-05-01
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yeah.
TEXT> It does when you look around at other communities. So there are there are some problems here based on our, our tax rate and  the and again, in the presentation last night, they showed the resources available sunup, for example, what they  can spend on their students and what their relative tax burden is for taxpayers compared to Claremont and Charlestown, which were the highest. So it's pretty interesting. I mean, it was it was a little bit of a rough presentation. And I have to say, it was kind of a rough crowd to for some of these folks, it was there are people asking some pretty, pretty tough questions and people getting off task and off topic. So but has there anything to add. To it?
NEXT> Heather Whitney: They also pointed out that how disruptive breaking up of source are. Yes. And the negative financial impact to the towns that that has and I think you're absolutely right.

[10350-314] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (opens hearings and meeting, runs agenda  | 2019-05-01
PREV> Heather Whitney: In.
TEXT> Particular brought up the fact that, can't understand why populations are going down yet. Budgets are going up. And there was a clearly a teacher there who responded  to that. Regarding, again, some of the conversations we had tonight around childhood trauma, what the the way some of the kids are coming into school and what that requires of the districts to  now, in terms of management and providing differentiated programing based on the needs of students compared to what they were 50 or 60 years ago.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So are.

[10358-38] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: from their homes. When I say the Claremont District office, I'll try to talk really fast. There's just so much information to slow myself down. But the Claremont District office actually covers about 16 towns. It's all of Sullivan County and then lower Grafton County.
TEXT> We have 12 district district offices throughout the state. So when we talk about Claremont, for the numbers, you'll see if you can read that. But  numbers wise it counts as the Claremont do. So not necessarily Claremont specifically. Just keep that in mind. It's kind of hard to pull numbers because it changes daily.  But I do want to talk to you all because,  like I said, with  the  opioid crisis and just the dynamics going on and the struggles that families are facing and the lack of resources,  children are being displaced from their homes at an alarming rate. Weekly, if not daily. Sometimes we're removing children and we're placing them out of district, out of our towns. And when I say, I mean out of all 16 of my towns, I just don't have any placements left. So I'm working really hard to recruit in my towns. But  we have several kids and,  Fitzwilliam in range in  Peterborough. We have children. We have a three year old boy who, because of severe neglect, is functioning at a nine month old level. And he's currently in a residential placement  because we don't have a home that's able to meet his needs. Which is heartbreaking. We need  specialized homes. I mean, we we need any foster home, but we really need homes that are trauma informed and homes that are able to take on these these kids that are have just had so much trauma and so much neglect.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: That they're really they're just so heightened and such, such a state that they, they can't even like come, come down to like, baseball to be able to go to

[10358-42] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: of them are with relatives. So sometimes when children come into care, we can, license relatives if they do pass a criminal background check, if the home checks out and everything sort of falls into place and they're appropriate and able to work with us.
TEXT> That doesn't always happen culturally. It's just sometimes we're not able to identify a relative, but we try really hard to because we know that it's best for children to stay with their families.  So we do have 13 kiddos that are currently with, with their relatives, 27 or with non relatives.  For our trial visit reunified. And that's a sibling group. That's so that's one sibling group that was recently.  They're almost at the 11 month mark out of a 12 month system where they've been returned to. Mom. I'm so in a lot of work. So we still have, a custody of them without going into too much detail of that, but. So they're home with mom now to see how that goes and see if she can maintain, doing what she needs to do to keep them home. Five were in a group home situation  and 11 are in an institution.  And I do want to talk a little bit about that. I'll try to be quick, but more specifically, I do. I want to raise awareness, but I also want to get you thinking, okay, because we have some specific needs. I have specific needs for my office and I can't do this by myself.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: Like I really can't. I need help. So if you guys can help in any way, that would be great. That little boy. I need a family for him. The

[10358-49] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: This is that is that.
TEXT> Yes. For a time, it's still I think it just changed. I just went to a training on it. I should know that. And I should have been prepared. I'm sorry. Have you guys seen the, the movie Instant Family? Has anyone seen that? Do you know what I'm talking about? Do you mind if I play this clip real quick? Oh, it might not work.  Okay. If not, maybe you look it up. It's. There's some language, but it's, It came out recently, and it's just a really, like. It was a really good movie. Some of us thought we'd bring our kids because,  you know, it it would teach them, like, show them what we do because, like, my kids don't understand, there's some language that was not a great idea, but it is really like, it's a it's heartwarming. It's like a good picture because unless you're you live it like I had no idea. No idea that this happened in my community. I had no idea how prevalent it was. I didn't know what the need was.  So to my. Why I'm here. Really,  it's my job. But I do feel like it's all of our jobs, right?
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: To me, when I see a kid, when we get an assessment on a kid, on a family, I always people think of. I like people in my work. They've

[10358-51] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: also looking to work here, but, so that I can't do there's a lot of things that I can do wherever I have a stack of fliers in my bag that wherever I go, if I go to the doctor's office, I hang one up.
TEXT> I literally pull over on the side of the road. And if I drive by a gas station and there's a  bulletin board there, I, I share on social media, I have, there's several adoption sites and foster care sites, that share like, heartwarming stories about adoption or about, you know, youth and, just supportive things about that. And, you know, good stories, even some hard stories, because it's it is hard. And some people go into wanting to adopt and sometimes kids get sent home and that's really hard to there's a lot of that and there's open discussion for that. But  oh, wait, can we go back up there? Sorry. So I made this list. I'll just go through that just to get you thinking about it. Okay. So do you think there might be something that you can do if you can't be a foster mom, there might be several things. Can you be a foster parent or do you know someone that can you might be thinking like, you know what, my aunt's. I was really upset. All of our kids are in college now.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: She's got that apartment over there. You know, where she's been saying she wanted to take. You know, she always had all the house that had all the kids over.

[10358-52] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Caitlin Bartley: can't be a foster mom, there might be several things. Can you be a foster parent or do you know someone that can you might be thinking like, you know what, my aunt's. I was really upset. All of our kids are in college now.
TEXT> She's got that apartment over there. You know, where she's been saying she wanted to take. You know, she always had all the house that had all the kids over. You know, those type of people are great foster parents, especially for teens. A PC, a for a youth and care, a personal, caring adult. They don't have to be licensed, but there's a lot of youth who age, age out of the system purchase. Sometimes kids don't want to be adopted when they're older, so we try to set them up and help them get into college and get their apartment and stuff. But those kids also need somebody to call when they get a flat tire or when they have,  Thanksgiving dinner or Christmas and, you know, someone to just call and check in on them and see how they're doing. And so there's not like the legal,  binding piece to it. There's not the, the licensing and all of that that comes in. And it's not that every single day, but it's like just a somebody like it's it's somebody for someone to have. And so that you can be that people can be that you can. If you have a relationship with a kiddo, you can be that does it.
NEXT> Caitlin Bartley: You do have to have a background check. And it does become legal. We have you through the court system saying like, you are going to be there for this

[10358-78] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Frank Sprague: Yes. When you say institutionalized, where are you talking about Project Mountain or somewhere?
TEXT> We have two littles,  a five year olds at Crotchet Mountain. We have, we have a bunch of kids at  Pine Haven. The two boys I was talking about are at Pine Haven.  We have Spaulding  Youth Center. They might be a small one or the other.  I don't Beckett. Sometimes I don't think anybody's there right now. Bennington. We have a couple of girls there.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So, Alan, what is crotchet Mountain? 200,000 a year.

[10358-114] Caitlin Bartley | Resource worker, NH DCYF Claremont District Office | 2019-05-06
PREV> Heather Whitney: Increase percentage wise? Have you seen in foster care in the in the Claremont area, like our area specifically?
TEXT> I don't know percentage wise. I just know that I know it's been significant. When I, started here, we had probably,  30 homes. And so when we would take a kiddo into care, we would run down the list and call our homes and see who is available. And then we would place our kids in our communities. That's how it works. And since I've been in this position over two years now, I've never been able to do that.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: Wow.

[10358-191] Charlene Lovett | Mayor, City of Claremont (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: I would have guessed that though. That group, that age.
TEXT> It's really it's really concerning. So these are statistics that I'm getting through the city's thrive coalition. But more importantly, it's good. It's good to have the awareness. But what are we going to do about it. So they give like little snippets of what other communities are doing that are working to address this issue.  And one of them is Harford County in Maryland. I'll just read the Harford County Public School student board member, and you have a student board member here, is looking for students from each middle and high school, high school in Harford County to join him and other high school high schoolers to serve on the new Student Mental Health Council. Now, I don't know if this is anything you've been talking about, but having a student mental health council may be  an approach that you want to take. The council will be a group of students dedicated to promoting mental wellness and eliminating the stigma surrounding mental,  mental health and schools. The mental health specialist in the school system will provide guidance for the council, which will strive for each student to have access to support for stress, anxiety, depression, other mental health challenges students are facing each day and that is only one.
NEXT> Charlene Lovett: I have several of the samples of things that other communities are doing across the nation to deal with, specifically with suicide, and I don't know what you're doing in

[10358-301] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair (co-presiding at joint meeting) | 2019-05-06
PREV> Carolyn Towle: Yes.
TEXT> So when when, Heather Whitney and I went over to Newport the other night, one of the, one of the topics that came up that kind of mystified people was the, at least in this area, there have been a lot of small, small districts that have spun off to create their own source.  And in this day and age, when we look across the river, how Vermont is dealing with some of their school funding issues, they're doing a lot of consolidation. So we have an opportunity in Claremont. We've got some major changes going on at the South.  And we've got some major changes going on with the city, with the new city manager, I just wanted to throw out the the topic of,  of starting to approach things from a larger scale, such as insurance, fuel purchasing, even certain administrative tasks, payroll, these types of things. If that's something that we should look at there, there are the naysayers to, school funding who say you why would we give you more money if you're just going to waste it?  And when people confront me with that, I can't say honestly, I don't think we can take any other any more programs away for the kids. I don't think we can do that. But are there other efficiencies we could look at? Absolutely. You bet.  And so I'm just wondering what the will of the board, the boards are to start having these conversations.
NEXT> Allen Damren: You mentioned fuel. I'd have to check, but for a number of years, the city always took the lead going out to the school district. And it was always a

[10374-1] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Sitting starting  at the far. My far right is Prescott Herzog. He's our student representative. Heather Whitney, board member. Rob Lovett, board member Carolyn Toll, board member. Mike Patron, board member and chair of the board. I'm Frank Sprague, chair of the Claremont Board, acting Superintendent Corey LeClaire, and our. District court clerk for this portion, Mary Woodman. And why we're here. Okay, we are here tonight. Due to. What do you need? Oh, you to. Okay.
NEXT> Unidentified: Now we do the rules and procedures for tonight's meeting. These rules and procedures will govern how the meeting is conducted. The person making a motion will be given five

[10374-9] Unidentified | School district moderator for the 5/15/2019 special district meeting ( | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: colon five. Therefore, the February 6th, 2019 and the March 12th, 2019 meetings were procedurally defective and invalid. This was brought to the attention of the Secretary's office by a concerned citizen. So the procedural defect, Okay. So that that is why we're here tonight.
TEXT> Thank you, Mr. Sprague. Is there anyone wishing to speak against this motion? Is there anyone wishing to speak in favor of this motion? Seeing none, we will have a voice vote. Those in favor signify by saying I.  I oppose. Nay, the ayes have it. That concludes tonight's district meeting. On behalf of myself and the school district, I want to thank you for your attendance tonight and remind you that a regular school board meeting will immediately follow this meeting.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Thank you.

[10374-33] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: My pleasure.
TEXT> It was, definitely worth worth it. And I would encourage other  people in the future to, if you can do it, if it's possible to try to make the time because it's a great opportunity to interact with some of the kids.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: The results. Of that were recorded by those who participated, and those are being, typed up so that they're legible by all and they will be shared with the school

[10374-40] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: That concludes my report. Okay.
TEXT> All right.  Citizens. Comments. Seeing none, I will close citizens comments and we'll transition to the report to our discussion action items. And the first is a discussion,  a report, I'm sorry, from student council and youth and government.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: I see Miss Chastain in the audience. And I'm guessing that's why you're here. That's okay. That's that's where the the request came from this Lewis. So. Yeah. Perfect. If

[10374-41] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: All right. Citizens. Comments. Seeing none, I will close citizens comments and we'll transition to the report to our discussion action items. And the first is a discussion, a report, I'm sorry, from student council and youth and government.
TEXT> I see Miss Chastain in the audience. And I'm guessing that's why you're here. That's okay. That's that's where the the request came from this Lewis. So. Yeah.  Perfect. If you could please let us know how things went with youth in government. That'd be great.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: We have on. The overnight trip, and that was because we lost two students to DC and another one to sports. Part of the reason we only have three tonight

[10374-42] Ms. Chastain | Stevens High School youth-in-government and student council advisor (s | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: see Miss Chastain in the audience. And I'm guessing that's why you're here. That's okay. That's that's where the the request came from this Lewis. So. Yeah. Perfect. If you could please let us know how things went with youth in government. That'd be great.
TEXT> We have on. The overnight trip, and  that was because we lost two students to DC and another one to sports. Part of the reason we only have three tonight is because we have so many kids busy with the sports.  I've got multiple kids playing softball right now down to Veterans Park. We've got tech Week going on.  So they're all booked. These are, of course, our Cheevers, but we managed to get a few students to tell you about their experiences.  Some of the cool things that we had happen, we  had students elected to chair co-chair.  Let's see what else. Press corps. Lobbyists. Prescott was named a senator.  He ran very well for Senate President. I think the only reason he didn't win was because the other kid got to talk so long. But, one of the things that was, I think, unprecedented that we did this year.  I counted before we came in and we had 26 bills written and submitted to youth in government. And that's we've never done anything like that before.  We're actually thinking about the summer. We're going to have what we're calling a breakfast barbecue and bills to add to our breakfast, and bills where students will write more bills and rehab them so we can get an early jump.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: We have a lot of kids who are talking about wanting to get into more leadership positions next year as well. One of our students who happens to be here

[10374-43] Ms. Chastain | Stevens High School youth-in-government and student council advisor (s | 2019-05-15
PREV> Ms. Chastain: anything like that before. We're actually thinking about the summer. We're going to have what we're calling a breakfast barbecue and bills to add to our breakfast, and bills where students will write more bills and rehab them so we can get an early jump.
TEXT> We have a lot of kids who are talking about wanting to get into more leadership positions next year as well.  One of our students who happens to be here tonight,  Riley, had two bills read on the floor, which is not an easy task.  And both of them passed the floor. But I heard they got killed by the governor.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: Yeah. They did. Okay.

[10374-47] Alicia Webster | Stevens High School student, student council (self-introduced [78]) | 2019-05-15
PREV> Riley: what? Different views and to collaborate with other people from other schools, from different regions. Even though both of my bills got vetoed, I'm still able to learn from what was wrong with my bill on the original part and to resubmit them next year.
TEXT> I'm Alicia Webster. I went on the D.C. trip so I wasn't. Able to go to the overnight stay, but I was able to go to the caucus, which elects,  positions. Yeah, positions.  And then I also went to pre legislation, and even though I wasn't officially a member of youth in government,  I was able to sit in at top and I  wrote a bunch of notes. So next year it'll be a lot more easier. And I was dive right into it. So yeah.
NEXT> Prescott Herzog: Hi, everyone. Prescott, I think you all know me by now. But I had I wrote for bills this year. Two all four of them made it to committee, to

[10374-76] Prescott Herzog | Student representative to the Claremont School Board | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: Yeah.
TEXT> The legislative session is that kind of drawing to close. But as we start at the second legislative session. There's been a couple of topics of, students working in youth, in government on creating bills of their own, working with Senator Hennessy  and other senators in the state. There was drivers that reform that we were talking about with Senator Hennessy on increasing the funding for drivers in the state so that we can do it through the schools, not just through private enterprises. And I believe there was something about medical issues with Senator Sherman.
NEXT> Ms. Chastain: Yeah, I know that one of our. Students in the difficulty for them to take classes because, I mean, I know I have students and these are probably among them

[10374-90] Unidentified | Unidentified - elementary educator addressed as 'Lisa' [143] who descr | 2019-05-15
PREV> Melissa Lewis: six week time in the winter to consider winter program activities. We're really looking to get kids out and moving. We've increased recess time. We've added an afternoon recess. It's important stuff. We're really excited about it. So, Lisa, did you want to add anything?
TEXT> Well, just, just from my experience, when I, when I worked in Windsor. We did this with our, with our kindergarten, and it was called Forest Fridays, and it was hugely successful. You know, behaviors on those days went down. Attendance went up. I mean, it was very motivating to the students. So I'm, I'm a big advocate for it and I'm really looking forward to it. I would echo that. We know that we have to get really creative about how to keep kids engaged, and some traditional methods don't always work for all children. And so we really see this as one more tool in our teachers toolkits to keep kids engaged, to get them excited about learning, and to really realize that learning can happen anywhere, not just in the classroom. So super excited. Certainly lots of questions, lots of what could this look like? And that's the purpose of the professional development. And we know we're we're all just in it together kind of learning as we go. So really exciting time for our elementary schools.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: So we'll share a few things. No one but good.

[10374-94] Lisa Holtz | Third grade teacher, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: B thinking about how you might want to volunteer participate.
TEXT> So I'm Lisa Holtz. I'm a third grade teacher at  Maple Ave Elementary,  and. This. Is three  H outdoor learning. So go ahead. Go ahead and click. Yep. This is fall of 2015. This is a picture of my students in Moody Park doing outdoor learning in 2015. I began this adventure in about 2014.  Okay.  And this is the same year. This was spring of 2016,  and this is a very special slide that I keep. We had a semi verbal third grade student that year, and he was reading about turtles in his reading class. This photo is at Saint Gordon's Blow Me down, Brook. Our student was the only child in the grade who noticed this animal. You can see when once it's a picture, you can really see that it's not a rock. It's a turtle. And we were all stepping around and there were three third grades with adults, and we were all stepping around and over and on this creature.  But this one student saw it and said, it has four legs  ahead and a tail. It is a turtle. Outdoor learning made a difference for that child.  We this is our.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: We've had a stream table at Maple every year since 2015. A stream table simulates 3 to 4 miles of a river. We study erosion, stream anatomy, and ecology when

[10374-96] Lisa Holtz | Third grade teacher, Maple Avenue Elementary School | 2019-05-15
PREV> Lisa Holtz: there's seven slides for you just to just we're we're writing, we're reading. We're snacking where I'm noticing. We're sitting by a campfire there. We we learned about trees and lichen this winter because you can always see those things, you know, throughout the year.
TEXT> We're looking at little branches. We're looking at any kind of life. This is a, unusual lichen that we've found. The kids. The the students really got good at identifying the three types of lichen leafy, leafy, crusty and shrubby. And this stick was really interesting to them because they had never seen lichen like that. And there's more tree looking at trees to see what type of tree they are. Sketching deer scat. So we had seen Deer Scout at the top of the ravine and in the ravine, but this pile was closer to the entrance, so it was evidence of where the deer move around in Moodie Park. This is spring, and this is a vernal pool near the entrance to Moodie that we found. We looked for evidence of stream anatomy and measured the depth of the vernal pool here. We predicted where the water would run and found the old culverts. And we learned about culverts with our stream table. So, you know, we we were able to look at it and see what was going on with it. We the kids, the different parts of the stream with just the little stream that was going in there. Even a explored path can be an adventure.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: We saw many types of plants, and the source of that little stream that led to the vernal pool just right there. Benefits of outdoor learning. Social emotional healing and

[10374-98] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Lisa Holtz: birds are chirping and two kids, decided that that was true of them. So and I think that's the last the last slide. I think you better go one more just to make sure that's it. Okay. So thank you. Thank you for your time.
TEXT> Thank you so much. Nice to have a few things that I was thinking of and Lisa was speaking is, I believe, Lisa, correct me if I'm wrong. That part is a lot of opportunity for us to partner with. Not only. Philanthropic organizations across the state, but also other institutions like Dartmouth College and other places to bring outdoor learning in a meaningful way to our students. And so it's not necessarily, in any way, shape or form an additional burden on anyone. It's really  just an. The possibilities are limitless. With the opportunities that we have here.
NEXT> Lisa Holtz: Our. Own Sullivan County Conservation District, they are fabulous to work with. They want to they want to help us in any way they can. They they brought, one of

[10374-105] Melissa Lewis | Principal, Disnard Elementary School (uncertain - introduced by LeClai | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: You know, I'd like to introduce Michelle beaten and some friends.
TEXT> We want to continue to enrich our children. And they want to talk to you about a potential winter winter program.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: And. Yes. Excuse me.

[10374-108] Michelle Bian | Parent, Ward 2 (self-introduced; ASR 'Michelle Bian', LeClair's intro  | 2019-05-15
PREV> Unidentified: So.
TEXT> My name is Michelle Bian, and I'm a resident of War two.  I have a son  at Maple Avenue and a rising kindergartner and a six month old. So I wanted to share with you that, we, as a group of parents and support from the teachers, are proposing a five to 5 to 6 week winter program for elementary school children in Claremont with possible activities including snowshoeing, skiing, ice skating, and use of the community center, possibly swimming. Many other communities in our area offer winter programs, including Newport, Cornish, Sanibel, Plainfield, Hanover, Windsor, heartland, Hartford, Norwich and we feel that Claremont would offer this to our students as well. Teaching our children to be outside and to embrace the winter climate may provide many benefits, including physical activity to improve their health, exposure to new activities and better connections with our region may make them more likely to remain in our state, in our community, after graduation, to boost our economy and our community. Additionally, a vibrant winter program makes Claremont more attractive to families who are looking to move to this area. The details would be of 5 to 6 week program sometime between December and February breaks. Potential activities I said would be snowshoeing, skiing, ice skating, swimming, but not limited to that. This would be for working, thinking grades K through five, and all three of the elementary school principals who were up here previously are in support of this program.
NEXT> Michelle Bian: We have contact information and program information from six area schools that have similar winter programs. And we've discussed, meeting. We met with Mark Boylan at the Claremont Savings Bank

[10374-110] Unidentified | Unidentified - short remark absorbed into another speaker's cluster | 2019-05-15
PREV> Michelle Bian: work has been done by groups of parents. So and the idea of this is, spreading in the community. And people are really passionate and excited about something like this. And this is also something that, the teachers are feeling excited about as well. So.
TEXT> Yeah,  the, Teachers are embracing this as well. I happen to teach third grade at Maple with Lisa. And so, Lisa and I have been talking about this for a while, actually. But as a parent one, I think just one of my own children was had the opportunity to, be involved with the winter program, and she learned how to ski. And  not only did she learn that skill,  but it was a great opportunity to meet other kids from other schools. And, it's just beneficial all the way around. But from a teacher lens, we're all about standards,  and  there are several speaking and listening standards that this targets as well.  And then also on our report card  in the elementary level, anyway, we have a portion of the report card that is skills for successful learners. And so I went through those skills today. And there were 12 and it targeted ten of them. Just based on what we would be doing uses time constructively practices self control, listens without interrupting all of those skills  that some of our students learn at home and, and  frankly, some others don't. So it's a great opportunity  not only to be doing an outside activity, physical activity.
NEXT> Unidentified: It's healthy. It gets them away from the classroom and engage in other types of activities, but it just opens up a whole new world for so many of our

[10374-113] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: they want to be part of this community for the health of this district long term. We've already talked about funding tonight. This is yet another piece of that. And so if we can, we can increase our attractiveness of our school district to others.
TEXT> And coupled with all of the amazing resources we have in this community, we've just become higher and higher on the list of destinations for families as they're looking. And that's really what our, our, what we should be thinking about in addition to how do we provide a better educational experience for all of our kids? Because we, we,  we talked about in that and the goal setting process and, you know, yeah, we provide a lot of resources for a certain population of kids at the expense sometimes of another population of kids. And this is an opportunity that addresses all of them and can address all of them and really be enriching. Outdoor education in general does not require your approval in any way. Winter program. However, it is a change in what our current practice is and would. I think our ask of you this evening is to give that approval for us to move forward with Winter program. We have a team of dedicated parents who are interested in in committing their time and energy and effort to this,  and I expect that the cost of this would be nil for the district at least the first year or so, as they are seeking grant and other revenue sources beyond what the district already has in place, because it wasn't something that was budgeted locally.
NEXT> Cory LeClair: But there is a lot of of there are many available resources in our geographic region to help get this program off the ground, make it sustainable, make it long

[10374-114] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Cory LeClair: I expect that the cost of this would be nil for the district at least the first year or so, as they are seeking grant and other revenue sources beyond what the district already has in place, because it wasn't something that was budgeted locally.
TEXT> But there is a lot of of there are many available resources in our geographic region  to help get this program off the ground, make it sustainable, make it long term, and make it a great opportunity for our kids.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: Would this require a motion?

[10374-135] Carolyn Towle | Claremont School Board member | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: the Senate hearing and, and spoke and he was quoted. So it's an ongoing battle. But make sure you read the emails from the National School Board. There's do you get the emails from the school funding fairness? Do you get that as well? Yeah.
TEXT> I think it would be important.  I mean, the kids that worked hard in the legislative process, but they were kind of, not in the know as to what I was referring to.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Right.

[10374-138] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-05-15
PREV> Carolyn Towle: And the connections got to be made. So that would be something that we would have to have as part of our goal is to get them connected.
TEXT> Right? Yeah. That's actually a good idea to go in and actually meet with the with the kids and show them some of the, what's been going on. That's not a bad idea. I'll connect with Mrs. Jason probably in the fall. We can talk about that kind of short notice now.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: But you could, you know, be a bug in the air to forthcoming.

[10374-233] Cory LeClair | Acting Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-05-15
PREV> Frank Sprague: It again. There are some names on here that that that I know. And, I'm sad to see them going, and I wish them all the best of luck. And, their resignations of read with great regret.
TEXT> And I guess I should explain my reasoning for not reading them out loud. I don't know if all of their students and colleagues are aware of their  decisions, so I would rather them tell their students and colleagues and have it be announced. On TV, CCTV.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So future agenda items. Again, we've got all of these for, the fall. We're not meeting the we will not have an early June meeting.

[10375-211] Josh Malloy | Director of Instructional Technology, SAU 6 | 2019-05-16
PREV> Josh Malloy: want to make sure that we're doing the best we can to make sure that the risk is shared with another company. So, our financial server, for example, is hosted locally by us. It's run on an SCL server and fear hosted internally with us.
TEXT> There is an option to defer that over to, Tyler Technologies to host that for us. So that's one option that we could potentially look at to defer some of the risk that we have by hosting that information on our local servers. Also, our our student information system is is hosted locally and open to the internet. So there's a challenge there to make sure that stuff is staying up to date. The information is secure.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But there is the option to have them host.

[10407-98] Rob Lovett Jr. | Claremont School Board member | 2019-06-04
PREV> Michael Petrin: Rob.
TEXT> I think that we put our faith in Mike Tempesta to make the decisions on behalf of the board as far as hiring. It's just a gross overstep  of our authority to then think that we can have.  I absolutely agree we should have a conversation with him in that direction, but I don't think that we should stop him from hiring someone as he sees fit, right?
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: Or make him, which is what happened in the past.

[10463-65] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-25
PREV> Marjorie Erickson: Aye. Any opposed? Abstentions. Great. Can you give that to Mary, please? Okay. Now we're in discussion in action items. And we have some nominations from Mike.
TEXT> Yes, yes. So, I have. Two nominations, so we don't have as lonely a letterhead as a, as you see on here in central office.  Those nominations are for Jeff Small as the director of technology.  Jeff has been with us  for for many years. About 13 combined years.  He has been in the field of it for 28 years. He knows every every nuanced configuration within the district and is excited about the role. And again, this was predicated on, Josh Malloy resigned, and  we're basically not filling one of the positions. This is part of that restructure. So we are moving him to the leadership role and then not filling  his position. He's well aware that, you know, he's going to  grow into the leadership role and still have the responsibility for the networking, but district configuration being what it is. I felt more confident in assessing what's going on in the district to reallocate  downsized central staff  a little bit so that we can get more teachers in the classroom to support the kids. So that that was that was his the second, nomination we have is Donna McGowan, assistant. Principal at the high school who for also for  special education, who has spent most of Don is in the audience today and has spent most of her career in elementary as well.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So has a full run K through 12 throughout. You know, public education has been an adjunct professor is very up on the theory. In what's going on around the

[10463-84] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-25
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: I'm really happy to see that. And I've changed my thinking a little bit because you are making changes in other areas, and and I appreciate that. Are we going to have a, are we going to have a job description for an assistant superintendent?
TEXT> I think. They're already is a job description. I saw it in there. It was it was posted. So I can get that get that to, primarily  on that  in that vein though. Our responsibility for  curriculum instruction and assessment in the assessment goes drills down into  some of the virus standardized testing and measures the eye ready and the like and looking at the effectiveness of those things as we align our curriculum. She's not going to be alone on that. I showed her I would be helping in that as well as also we have two other members of the curriculum team, Brynn Kane and Steven Moss, who are  are integral to that as well. So it's a it's a good team. There's a lot of work to do with alignment, as I learned with the particularly at the middle school, with the half year requirements and things like that, that we really need to get after for the students.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I just wanted to say that I think what you're doing and sort of paring down administrative staff to add some teachers, is something that I've heard a criticism about

[10463-86] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-25
PREV> Jason Benware: see it at the teacher level rather than the staff level. Yeah, and I think that that's a good direction to be going in. And I have a feeling many in the community are very much in support of that. So, I think that's good.
TEXT> Yeah. I it's, particularly for that eighth grade test, you know, in preparing the kids for that. So when I do want to say it looks like preliminary and again, I can't wait to have the team behind me in school and session and meet.  Well, everything is going on, but,  I think that's going to be part of a 2 or 3 year plan to restore that sequence because they don't have enough. But we'll we'll know further on that too. And I also am excited about the direction of the middle school and meeting with the the administrative team there and the project based learning that's going to go on in the afternoons. And this will complement that  tremendously. Particularly science is so inquiry based things in the afternoon.  Afternoon is a good place to get hands on with middle school in a positive way. So that's that's what we're looking to do, right.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Make a motion to accept these two nominations as presented.

[10463-132] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Michael Tempesta: Sure. I like. To, Thank Courtney Porter for running with and following up with this donation. And Courtney can speak to the specifics of it, but it's a really exciting contribution from Courtney.
TEXT> Good evening. So I am the school social worker and McKinney Vento, homeless liaison for the Claremont School District. And for the past seven years, I have taken on the role of facilitating, organizing and implementing the back to school festival in our community. We have a homeless population that is  over 10% of our school population, which at the state of New Hampshire level, when we look at New Hampshire, it's only 4%. So we are almost triple what the state has for a homeless population. Our students who are experiencing free and reduced lunch are at 50%. So this back to school festival not only addresses the needs  of our typically developing students, but it also offers an opportunity for some of our highest need students to to receive what they need to start the school day a backpack, pencils, folders and everything that you can imagine. And so over the past seven years, we've had a lot of different funds who have come in. But this year we are in an opportunity where the NFR, which is national field representatives, and Wheelan,  they are donating 600 filled backpacks to us. The total is over $3,000. And I'm going to be a huge dork, but like, this is so amazing,  to be able to know.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: So starting last year, I, I was putting out, cards so that we could collect data on what we're doing because, as you know, I came to you, like, 6

[10463-133] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Courtney Porter: in an opportunity where the NFR, which is national field representatives, and Wheelan, they are donating 600 filled backpacks to us. The total is over $3,000. And I'm going to be a huge dork, but like, this is so amazing, to be able to know.
TEXT> So starting last year, I, I was putting out, cards so that we could collect  data on what we're doing because, as you know, I came to you, like, 6 or 7 years ago with my stories, and you're like, give me the data, Courtney. Degree the data.  So you know what I've done? I've got the data for you. The data is that kids needs us. They need us to give them backpacks. They need us to give them food. They need us to give them everything that they can.  So I believe that a part of your packet, I think  you might have received some, Am I allowed to hand out a flier? And does it need to be entered into record? Yeah. Okay. So can I enter the back to school flier into record and then handed out to everybody?
NEXT> Unidentified: You can.

[10463-157] Courtney Porter | School social worker and McKinney-Vento homeless liaison, Claremont Sc | 2019-07-25
PREV> Jason Benware: see all of the other things. And there's, there's a typically the food service company is there. So and people are able to ask questions about that and even get signed up for things. And there's all of the, the, the middle, the elementary schools.
TEXT> So all five of our schools. So the bluff is nard and Maple are there, CMS is there, the high school is there. And I will say that  we love and adore unity. And Chip is always invited. But unity does a really great thing of their own. But and this year I actually received a phone call from the John Paul Academy, which is the new Catholic school, and she asked, she's like, can we come? And I'm like, do you have kids? Are they going to school? Of course you can. So this year we'll have the John Paul Academy there in regards to schools. But we also have, there are free haircuts that happen at this event.  There are community members. Claremont Savings Bank I can't my list of is like 148 people. We this is what it's all about because you cannot start school without building a relationship. And so what this back to school festival does is it gives our students and our families an opportunity to connect with their schools. It gives them an opportunity. The busses, they're like kids who like, maybe you're a first grader and you've never ridden a bus before.
NEXT> Courtney Porter: Guess what? The bus is there and you can get on the bus and you can tour the bus. We have Golden Cross ambulances there. The police department is there,

[10472-17] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-07-30
PREV> Michael Tempesta: plenty to do with that. The we wanted to be expedient in approving this as fast as we could to give the the administrative team at the middle school enough time to hire appropriate staff so that that was the impetus for all of this.
TEXT> So I'm going to share what I know about this and this. This predates me actually being on the board. This is dates back when I still work for the district. And when doctor McGowan started, he was immediately faced with a pretty significant budget deficit. I think it was around $1 million. And so as part of that initiative to to meet the goal of of of that, he converted,  social studies and science, is it. Yes. At the middle school to, to a block half a year format, hence enabling him not to cut the positions, but the cut down on the number of people in order to meet that that  significant deficit that existed. Unfortunately, I think as time went on that  became status quo under Principal  Fitzgerald. And I think the time has come now where we start looking at,  if we're looking through a K-12 type of articulation that we have to have, making sure that our students, when they leave the middle school are as prepared as they can be to enter the high school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: And I think that, from what we've seen from test data under Cory LeClair and the curriculum people, there are some gaps for sure. And what we're seeing at the

[10472-19] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-07-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: some of that money that that I have been pretty much, consistent on the record about creep, administrative creep, and to kind of roll some of that back and put some back into instruction. So I'm very much in favor of this. So the comments.
TEXT> Yeah, I just want to sort of echo that and say that anytime we can shift away from paying administration and going more toward, education for our children, I'm in favor of it. So I'm going to make a motion.  And then we get more discussion anyway, right? Yeah, yeah. So I'd like to make a motion to  approve the higher of these two of teachers  and or,  freeing up the money for these two teachers anyway. I don't know. Let me try that again. I can make a motion to approve. The, hire of two new teachers that they see in this middle school.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: No, a second.

[10472-28] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Jason Benware: Yeah.
TEXT> We have enough math teachers now at the middle school that that's that's all set. It's it's more these immediate gaps for the  for those students.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: So was there any plans to. So you're saying that this is the next step would be teacher development and then perhaps even hiring more.

[10472-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Frank Sprague: Drivers education at Stevens High School.
TEXT> Yeah, this this is just an  update on this, and I and I just heard back from we have a meeting set up for,  this week we're finalizing. We put a contract out.  Some submitted that was vetted by our attorney to to have kind of a long standing,  I think a four year to or five year  deal that is similar at the same cost. A nice outfit coming in. There was a lot of. I was talking to  Pat today at the high school. There's a there she anticipated 80 plus students are looking for this. Many of the students are already traveling all the way down to Jaffrey as far as Jaffrey. So  we're excited about it and you should be hearing more about that shortly. You know, our next meeting or however we shoot out that information. So that that was just a point of information.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Jason, don't know if you know this, but Jason, memory used to teach represent.

[10472-77] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-07-30
PREV> Jason Benware: Seven, 23, 67, 20.
TEXT> Seven, 20. You're right. Okay. So so the and then the other donation  we have for $1,595.51 from the Children's Fund of the Upper Valley for,  also to support the Finding our stride  initiative that went on there. So I wish I knew more specifically about that, but that had already had already happened.
NEXT> Unidentified: So okay.

[10472-82] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-07-30
PREV> Unidentified: Want.
TEXT> Me to? I'd like to make a motion that we accept three, donations of the first in the amount of $720 from the American Legion, the second in the amount of $360 from the Polish American Citizens Club, and the third in  the amount of $1,595.51 from the Children's Fund of the Upper Valley. With our thanks and appreciation.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: Second.

[10506-141] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: So,
TEXT> Yeah, we're waiting for people to get back. And this is, again, something that we've spoken about. We we haven't had or heard a lot of, express value added. So what's been spoken about so far?  And I'm not and I'm not negating. There's two things, particularly for the people at home there. There's two aspects of this. There's the competency based aspect of it where we're looking at what every student needs to know and be capable of doing. And then there's the correlation. Or in in our case, as I've heard more about it and talked to other superintendents and other communities,  the correlation of that to what is known as a traditional letter grade, you know, an, A, B, or C  in combining those two things, we're one of the few places that actually did those two things simultaneously. So, what I have heard over and over and I've heard some,  you know, expressions of this from, from staff as well. Is it is that worth, is it worth continuing with that? And we're going to take a hard look at that, and we're going to have a subcommittee on that.  If it is something that is confusing people  and is actually impeding kids, this is what I've heard, and we haven't bought it out for data.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: I've heard that some people are a little bit concerned, in some cases, that students were stymied by the by the traditional rank in process and where they how that

[10506-150] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: I think we're going.
TEXT> To look for complete community. Participation for parents particularly. You know, some of the things I've heard are issues having to do with sports eligibility, with class rank, with,  how colleges, college admissions, office offices, recenter a kids transcript anyway, and how that can add to an unnecessary layer on that confusion. So if it's not helping our kids and it's confusing our community, we we have to take a look at it. So  I don't I don't know what the result will be, but it's I think a a long time coming is I'm hearing it from people just coming in and being an outsider.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So I think that, you know, we're all pretty busy, but I think there's some things you brought up that I'd be interested in. I'm sure others as well. So,

[10506-226] Steven Moss | Curriculum specialist grades 6-12, SAU 6 (chair's 'Mr. Moss'; full nam | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: So I might.
TEXT> As a side note, my former school district I workflow was really into Stem, and they discovered that we they ended up having a 57% participation rate in Stem programs by females after leaving their high school programs in a way that they were able to do. That was to garner excitement in combining what you could do with science, technology and engineering and helping serving the community. And so they developed a program where they had kids design and 3D print, artificial limbs for veterans coming back. And so these kids would design it, use 3D printers to print it out, saving veterans a cost of over $50,000 for replacement of those names. So once the kids found out that they could do that in middle school, they started that program after school. We had 30 kids working on designing these things for veterans. It was really pretty awesome to see that. So bringing those ideas to the school and helping, that would be something that I'm really looking forward to doing.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So we have, if I want to call it, similar number of years ago, through the Wellborn Foundation, we had a science teacher that was doing a lot of inquiry

[10506-268] Brynn Kane | Curriculum team, SAU 6 - induction and mentoring program coordinator ( | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: So there was.
TEXT> Supposed to be something in your packets, but it looks like it didn't make it in. So I can email this to you if you would like a copy of it, that's not a problem.  So yeah, induction with mentoring plus our new teacher week. Just at the mission and the vision. It's a little bit similar to what the mission and vision are for the saw six, but I changed it just to make it for the mentoring program. So saw induction and mentoring program is committed to supporting the growth and development of teachers new to our districts. And our vision saw six inspire self-driven excellence for all teachers through rigorous curricula and effective mentor mentee partnerships, emphasizing individual strengths and goals in a safe and supportive environment where all teachers will learn and grow and become contributing members of our district. So it matches what we expect of our students. We expect the same of our teachers. These are the objectives that have a lot of them have been part of the mentoring program for the last 15 years. They've just been kind of modified and added as we went along. So those are just our objectives. We want to retain quality teachers. I know that's an area where we've really struggled recently. The last couple of years we've had a really big turnover.
NEXT> Brynn Kane: So we really want to use this and we want to keep we want to keep teachers here and support them. We want to improve beginning teacher skills and performance.

[10506-292] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-08-21
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah.
TEXT> Or the children?
NEXT> Brynn Kane: Yeah. I don't want to do that.

[10506-302] Jeff Small | Director of Technology, SAU 6 | 2019-08-21
PREV> Michael Tempesta: and things like that. Mr. Small came up with a couple new strategies to have linkage with IDs and, scanners and just some, some, some great ideas with that, that he can speak to the bits and bytes better than I can with that. So.
TEXT> Yeah. So we just came up. I mean, students are wearing their badges all. The time, or they have  badges.  So we just kind of got in touch with the photo company. And essentially. We're just going to put a barcode on them. This is actually a test one I just couldn't show the students. So essentially they're going to right now, we were told at elementary schools, hey, somebody just put in a four my four digit pin, and it's not even my kids pin. And nobody would know. So the teacher now are at least our thought process is that the teacher is going to hand these out to the kids as they line up for lunch. It's their card, their Idy, and we're going to have hand scanners, so they're just going to scan it. Their picture comes up. On the Meals Plus program that we use. And it's just it's more of a confirmation for them. At the high school, we're going to actually even pilot using these as students come and go through the front door. This is going to be what they will be signing in and out of. This has their their Sassa  number, which is only tied to them, which will correspond to our power school. So, we'll always know who's in or who's out. Unless they go out another side door. But, it's just hopes to catch all that. Great.
NEXT> Jason Benware: It's just going to be basically a bean counter, right? It doesn't it doesn't actually access anything. Correct? Correct. It doesn't. Okay.

[10506-418] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-08-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: You're going to start out by bringing this up.
TEXT> So last year, I went down to the school board Association delegates meeting, and I went to it and I realized that there had been there was supposed to have been a process that occurred where we, as a board were supposed to weigh in, with the School Board Association, essentially as a lobbying group on behalf of, of the school boards, identifying issues that are very important to us. And what happens is these, issues are presented to the assembled delegates  and they are voted on by that group, if that is actually going to be a priority of the lobbying power of the school Board Association. So that is never happened at all when I've been in my years on the board. I went to the delegates assembly last year and said, whoa, we missed the boat. I just got the letter in my packet from them that this process is starting. So we have a November 2nd deadline of, what we would like to do. What do we see as burning issues here in Claremont that we would like to present to the assembled delegates of school boards that they could, designate or assign the school board association to act as a lobbying group with the state,  with the with the Senate, with the legislature on our behalf. So I'd like to put that should we probably should have that on the next agenda, perhaps.
NEXT> Rob Lovett Jr.: So for us to submit a proposed resolution for consideration. Just put this together. Yeah.

[10506-421] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-08-21
PREV> Carolyn Towle: to see how to create the resolution. So I'm asking if you could just spend a little time, go back to that email, look through it, get a better grasp so we can have this as a, you know, a production of our school board.
TEXT> Certainly. Some of the topics last year were, were guns in schools, for example. That was a discussion.  Obviously funding is a no brainer. Everybody will everybody's going to have. That's a given. But what's what particular things do we have that that besides funding that we feel that, we're being receiving short shrift and  would like to have someone advocate at the  legislative level on behalf of us. So that's essentially what it is.
NEXT> Unidentified: Okay.

[10521-55] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Jason Benware: We.
TEXT> Have the central office  team  was was out in force  as we, we made a commitment to spend,  3 or 4 hours a day in the schools every, every day of the year.  Not necessarily all of us each day,  but but this week it is so because it's a cool place to be. Pretty much. So we started out at the middle school. On opening day and went around and saw the kids  in, the teachers  doing doing great things and starting out. We were at the high school today.  I had the opportunity to,  to sit in a  drama class, among other  classes, and see some  exercises that were really  inventive and imaginative. And it was great to see the students,  you know, thriving out there. So  everything is off and and running.  I mean, that's all I, I have to report with two days in. So, so we will  we're excited to be out there.  We still have some positions  to fill.  We still have. And I'm trying to get used to this. It's a little bit different than a Massachusetts.  We have some teachers who have  left.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Just before that, I had to hold to the contract for a few. And we've also had people come to us from other districts that were waiting for. So there

[10521-73] Unidentified | Unidentified - staff member explaining summer credit-recovery eligibil | 2019-09-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: They.
TEXT> They did it a little bit different before you had to. If you missed two  competencies then you qualified. But now we looked at the kids in general in their circumstances and why they they didn't they didn't meet the competencies. And we were able to pull in a lot more students than we have in the past. So we opened it up to a lot more students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The other the other fringe benefit to that too, is that, you wind up with a big bulge. If you don't do that, you wind up with a huge bulge

[10521-79] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Michael Tempesta: And that's just one example. And there are many more, you know, throughout the budget that you folks have lived. But I thought it was important to to have those we have this amazing partnership now with Dartmouth that's exciting at the middle school level.
TEXT> Again, one of  of only two  middle schools in New Hampshire, as well as two in Vermont that's going out  to Dartmouth  on the 12th to to start that and really excited about the opportunities presented there. But we still need to there's no substitute for the teachers in the classroom, for the students, for class sizes and the like, and that's something that we'll have to address. So,  and I don't know if and we also had, if we wanted to segway into the other  part of that.
NEXT> Jason Benware: Mister while we.

[10521-162] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Jason Benware: This.
TEXT> Was an amazing donation of of $20,000. Doctor Herzog reached out to them, told learn about the things that that were going on. I think the, the year before as well,  I, 15,000 they gave 15,000. And it's just amazing generosity that that's really going back to fund the programs in materials and things,  opportunities for kids to get out there.  And trying to explore other programs as well. I know Alex has been looking into the criminal justice and a few other  programs, and it's just great seed money that goes directly to the students, really, really increasing what we can offer. So, we're incredibly appreciative.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So is this above the threshold, though, where we would have to have a public hearing to accept this amount of money?

[10521-310] Jason Benware | Claremont School Board member | 2019-09-04
PREV> Gary Merchant: Our.
TEXT> Population is still roughly the same, which means these are people that are not raising children. These are  there's a lot more baby boomers out there in this town. Than than there are young people.  And so our town is, I think, more, even more affected by it than other towns because there's a there's a ton of people  in the, say,  70, 65 to 80.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: The median income.

[10521-336] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Jason Benware: Western New Hampshire is a very different area.
TEXT> And I forget which speaker it was. Frank, but the  gentleman was very compelling in making the case. Several were in particular that particularly talking for poorer communities that that they are our children. Not not New Hampshire's children. Not not Claremont's not. You know, is.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: That the commissioner?

[10521-338] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-04
PREV> Frank Sprague: That the commissioner?
TEXT> I, I don't I'm, I don't know, I don't think so. I don't think so. I think I, I think it might have been the gentleman from Berlin. Yeah, yeah. So, but it was very compelling, you know, just just to have that perspective that they're, they're all our kids, no matter which town they're from, you know, their students.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: So those are the those of you who are listening at home, call the governor, let them know how you feel. Any other business?

[10521-345] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-04
PREV> Carolyn Towle: The one that I wanted to go to was pulling back the curtain. New Hampshire's educational landscape.
TEXT> That that one I think is, is is interesting because, again,  a lot of people will tell you that New Hampshire is doing fine. Thank you. Our our scores are high. Our kids perform well.  But again, that's data that really needs to be, unpacked in that, private schools are incorporated into the New Hampshire data. So it's, it's and again, high achieving kids are overrepresented in the, in the data because they're the ones who take the tests that they're using as the metric, the SATs and the SATs. So disadvantaged kids have a tendency not to take those courses. Kids that are headed for the community colleges have a tendency not to take those tests. So it's a it's it's not a I would be very interested to hear what they, when they say our tests are we're doing well. I'd like to know based on what metric that would be the essential question to that.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: And my question is, last year we ended up paying the total amount at one time for all these workshops so that we didn't have to pay individual pricing for

[10537-49] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: at Dartmouth as part of the four middle schools, two from New Hampshire and two from Vermont that are we had a ideation session, basically an open, open session to plan how we were going to go forward with our five year partnership and to
TEXT> talk about the things in the fields of science and as well as in engineering. It was hosted at Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth.  Unbelievable facility. And you'll see a few slides in a minute to talk about that. But a really exciting opportunity. And it was really exciting to hear from their graduate students, engineering students  who were talking about the units that they hope to plan with the educators, and also, from the perspective of the educators,  exactly what it is that students need to know, want to know. And we used  the feedback from the Montana  museum as well. And they were participants  all kinds of exit survey data to come up with a with a plan  in a series of field trips, units and things like that that are going to be very exciting. That will keep you posted with over the next five years. So,  these are representatives. I don't know if I have to go. Vegas here. Okay. So all.
NEXT> Unidentified: Right.

[10537-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: which, of course, we would be very much in favor of in Claremont. It would really mean that a lot of money would come to us. That is, we're now in the precarious state of continuing with a continued resolution for the folks at home.
TEXT> That just basically means that we don't know how we're going to be funded going forward. We do know that it's going to be a significant detriment to us  to aid, not know for planning purposes, and also to be operating at only a quarter of our budget that was promised for the year. So  we're hoping there's a change in that, but we don't know how that is going to go. But those are the two financial matters. It's a precarious time, but we're hoping that this should be resolved  one way or another in the next couple of months. So and that's all I have to report. I'd rather go back to the smiling faces of the kids. Maybe I should have led with the drier stuff. A note for next time. But, but,  I also have,  Mr. Moss did a great presentation and can speak about the,  the project based learning or the problem based learning. I  honestly didn't know that there's two kind of synonymous terms going back and forth. But either way, the concept is that there's a group putting your heads together and applying the knowledge that you're learning in a traditional format to specify to a specified problems. Give me a second here.
NEXT> Carolyn Towle: I thought that they were going back for another vote by Friday. That was my understanding. Have they already gone back and he's vetoed it again?

[10537-103] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Frank Sprague: For sure.
TEXT> Sure. All right. Now for better things for teaching learning. So I'm Steve Moss on the curriculum specialist for Sussex for grades six through 12th grade. So,  I'd like to start with a little presentation and some questions. Is the sound playing? We we tested this beforehand and it was working then. So there we go. So we're in second week of our PBL initiative at the middle school. And so I would be remiss if I didn't mention Terry Hayward. She's the brainchild behind all of this. And it was put so much work effort into organizing the choice boards that you saw up on the screen. And so essentially, the way that the format is working is  the all the kids, all the teachers at the different grade levels get to pick a project that they would like to do with the kids, and then they figure out how to incorporate some of the same learning competencies that they would do in their normal classes,  and tie that into the projects that they're doing with the students. And then they give out a choice board without their names on it, just the projects to the kids. And the kids pick their first, second and third choice.  And then Terry Hayward takes them all home and she schedules them. She spent like two frantic nights, like organizing the entire school and, you know, put these kids into their project groups.
NEXT> Steve Moss: And then at the end of the school day, the last what is it? 45 minutes, our 55 minutes of the school day. The kids all go to their different

[10537-104] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Steve Moss: the kids. And the kids pick their first, second and third choice. And then Terry Hayward takes them all home and she schedules them. She spent like two frantic nights, like organizing the entire school and, you know, put these kids into their project groups.
TEXT> And then at the end of the school day, the last what is it? 45 minutes, our 55 minutes of the school day. The kids all go to their different projects and they work on these engaging projects. So, for example, Terry Hayward is doing the labyrinth project that we saw. And what she does is she takes these kids out and has them build the maze, and they do all the mathematic calculations for the for the, you know, the how to build an elaborate and these  the automobile one. It started out where kids were going to learn how to change a tire on the car, but the kids have taken it into a whole new level. Whole class is going in and they're researching how they buy a car versus leasing the car. What are the differences and why? Why should you consider one over the other? The day that I was in there, they were going on to Claremont Insurance Company websites and getting the rates of what they would have to pay for the insurance on a vehicle so they could figure out the overall cost of the vehicle that they want.
NEXT> Steve Moss: Then they go in and they figure out what kind of career path they need to get to get the job, to get the car that they want to buy.

[10537-105] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Steve Moss: that I was in there, they were going on to Claremont Insurance Company websites and getting the rates of what they would have to pay for the insurance on a vehicle so they could figure out the overall cost of the vehicle that they want.
TEXT> Then they go in and they figure out what kind of career path they need to get to get the job, to get the car that they want to buy.  So it's all kind of connected together. And the second part of the course, they go in and they learn the maintenance on the vehicle. And that's what those kids were, you know, learning the different parts of the engine and learning, you know, where is the starter, where's the alternator, where's the. So they could, you know, be able to perform maintenance on the car. So what's really exciting is walking around in school, the one day I was taking video, I wanted to get Terry Hayward because on camera, but she had taken her kids out to a corn maze to do all the mathematical calculations on a field trip, so I couldn't get her on film. So I'm very I'm very sorry, but she was doing some cool stuff with her kids.  But what I've noticed when I go around is the engagement level of these kids is off the charts. You know, you go in there, they're all working, they're all very interested in what they're doing. And, you know, hopefully they learn something about it.
NEXT> Steve Moss: And it's kind of interesting. So we're pretty excited about it. Everything so far has been really positive. And that's what I had to report. So I was hoping that

[10537-114] Steve Moss | Curriculum specialist, grades 6-12, SAU 6 (self-identified [149]; ASR  | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Shoot some of that video. You know.
TEXT> Those those kids all on the computer banks. You know, I didn't have to tell them anything. They were they were they were working. They were going. And the teacher comes up to me, he's like, I've never seen him this engaged. This is just fantastic. So, you know, they're really into it and it's really exciting.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: But Miss Buckland anticipated my question, which was, would the heightened engagement, what's discipline look like? And pretty predictable.

[10537-169] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Unidentified: Okay, okay.
TEXT> So that's coming up at 6:00, 6:00 on Thursday the 26th. Our next saw board meeting is the 10th. And if you haven't indicated that your will be attending, I think everybody's gotten an invite for that. So make sure that, as you as you know, those are, we see they're really close to having a quorum on those. That's helpful if we know who's going so we can actually have the meeting, then, school board retreat. It's going to be a single, as far as I can tell, a single agenda item, just simply the A conversation. Hopefully we'll have a lot more information than, than we do  now  around what we're looking at. Be great. If we could,  go into looking into negotiations and such without  wondering how much we would have to eliminate to to make ends meet. So,  again, I had written an I wrote an op ed to the e ticker, and I put communication. So how to get Ahold of your how to get Ahold of the governor, how to get Ahold of reps. It's in there. Give them a call. I think the main point in my op ed that this is, let's get past the tribal politics, and this is our. These are our kids. This is our town. There's no us on them when it comes to our kids.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[10537-230] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-09-18
PREV> Michael Tempesta: may have to wait it and back and forth. You know, it didn't change, but particularly as it correlates to to math scores in music, I mean, there's there's a lot of studies on that, you know, on, on the improvement of, of, of grades.
TEXT> So one of the problems that, you know, and you could have the discussion, well, why wait grades. But the problem with that is, is that,  not all colleges weight them. And so you really put your kids at a disadvantage,  when they're applying against schools that do weight their grades in schools that don't. And if the college doesn't do something to to fix that, the kids from the schools where they don't wait, the grades are a huge disadvantage  for scholarships and everything. So.
NEXT> Unidentified: Heather, you were talking about putting folks or students in the words in that you would are interested in eliminating the linear ranking?

[10558-43] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-02
PREV> Craig Scott: again for taking the time to listen to me. If you'd like to find out more about the work that we're doing, please visit value Dash up or click the link below. Thank you for all the work that you're doing to help your students.
TEXT> So I had to. Start it off on that note. But,  so yesterday he appeared at our school,  to talk to his staff, students, parents and leaders throughout the day. He started his day with two assemblies, one for a sophomore, one for juniors and seniors, which were about to back. He then followed by a leadership training with students who whom have been identified as student leaders by faculty. In the afternoon, he hosted a staff training and in the evening he finished his day with a community event, sharing his story and waitress matches and Rachel's message to spread kindness and care for everyone. He created the Friends of Writers Club  at Stevens High School, with the students who attended the student leadership training that day. This club will pursue kindness challenges and meet Demand Flats time on Tuesdays and Thursdays  on Monday, Wednesdays and Fridays during passing of block three, students will participate in high five hallways with students and with people they may never engage with elsewhere. The club will focus on ideas from the high five  hallways to social media projects and other missions.  I personally have the honor to be on this club and to be so. That is one of the student leaders.  There was about 30 plus students on this, and we thank him for coming. And there was another video. This next video is about. The wages challenge, which we will be participating in again in the near future.
NEXT> Unidentified: In her journey, she said, don't limit to what I want to ask you. I want to show the world what I have. That this program brought today was something

[10558-46] Unidentified | Voice in recorded Rachel's Challenge / Value Up video shown to the boa | 2019-10-02
PREV> Craig Scott: It really.
TEXT> Opened my eyes to see the world in the totally different perspective. You know, looking at different perspectives from from everyone's point of view. And instead of trying to judge them or shun them or try to fix them. We try to understand for what they're living through. Just the thought of that. Everyone is human and everyone struggles with something just completely. It just touched my heart today and I could just see the barriers being broken down. I was amazed at what I saw today from our kids, really wasn't sure how they would react. They were very intense and watching and paying attention. They had a boldness and a. Courage that I've not seen some kids and that they didn't have to look at and see what someone else was doing and how someone else was feeling. I think it was it was an emotional connection for them, a sense of, wow, that's not far from me, and that's my sister, or that's me or that's my friend. I just seen so much of myself in her, and I just think it's not coincidental. And I'm. And I've said before, like, I'm ready to change the world. And I feel like this is just  is a great step that knowing that it's not only me who  who wants this, but just like, as we've seen today, it's so many other people to that are just ready to step up and rise up and make a difference.
NEXT> Unidentified: You've selected about 50 or 60 kids to participate, to become trained in how to promote this in our school. And I really feel like the kids emotionally were challenged

[10558-47] Unidentified | Voice in recorded Rachel's Challenge / Value Up video shown to the boa | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: this is just is a great step that knowing that it's not only me who who wants this, but just like, as we've seen today, it's so many other people to that are just ready to step up and rise up and make a difference.
TEXT> You've selected about 50 or 60 kids to participate, to become trained in how to promote this in our school. And I really feel like the kids emotionally were challenged and want to take part of making our school and our community a better place. I really saw how Rachel really wanted the world to come together. It really helped me as a person. I was a whole lot those of my classmates today than I would be any other day, because we all together felt the same thing. And you can just feel. How everyone in that moment was feeling that same thing.  And it wasn't just an assembly anymore.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: So that happened yesterday at the high school. On September 19th, 2019, Megan from the National Student Voice Organization led three student training sessions. All of these students who attended

[10558-48] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: a whole lot those of my classmates today than I would be any other day, because we all together felt the same thing. And you can just feel. How everyone in that moment was feeling that same thing. And it wasn't just an assembly anymore.
TEXT> So that happened yesterday at the high school.  On September 19th, 2019, Megan from the National Student Voice Organization led three student training sessions.  All of these students who attended these three student training sessions with the student Voice  were all of the same kids who are now part of the Friends of Rachel's club that was created yesterday. And Dave powerful trainings and introduced people just didn't voice in student leadership. Students brain tones brainstormed many ideas in the three different sessions on ways to improve the climate and culture, and Stevens High School for Claremont Middle School. The middle school would like to congratulate the following students for obtaining student of the month for September 2019 for grades six Liliana Eden, grade seven. We are quick grade eight. Shelly Butterfield for the Media Center is about listen for the unified outs for grades 612 and how for grade seven unified outs Hunter Abbott and for Unified Algebra eight. Mason Fallon.  The Choose Love initiative is drawn up for that. Any issues? They are still focused and uncovered for elementary school. Today was their picture day, and they have many trips set up for their students to attend.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Tomorrow. They traveled to Edward Orchards Friday, the kindergarten and first grade window to review found. And on October 8th, third and fourth graders will go to French Ledges. All

[10558-49] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-02
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: Abbott and for Unified Algebra eight. Mason Fallon. The Choose Love initiative is drawn up for that. Any issues? They are still focused and uncovered for elementary school. Today was their picture day, and they have many trips set up for their students to attend.
TEXT> Tomorrow. They traveled to Edward Orchards Friday, the kindergarten and first grade window to review found.  And on October 8th, third and fourth graders will go to French Ledges. All these trips provide students with a hands on learning experience for dessert. At elementary school just now, does it not enjoy an incredible open house? Last week it was so wonderful to see so many designer families come and visit their children's classrooms and see all of the land, and that has a tiered thus far, a new part to the festivities this year. Was the toes mu pu plastic unfortunately, doubtless fell without a winner, so we drew the winner from a hat. A huge thank you to April and Charlie Woodman for donating their time and tired to this event. Students in grades one through five recently completed the fall. I already diagnostic family reports will be sent home once all students have completed this assessment. Surveys were we sent to all elementary school families seeking the kinds of activities that their children would be interested in participating in Darwin, our upcoming winter program. We have it so very excited to see what our students are interested in this winter and from April Avenue. I have nothing to applaud.
NEXT> Frank Sprague: Any questions for the student rep?

[10558-50] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: families seeking the kinds of activities that their children would be interested in participating in Darwin, our upcoming winter program. We have it so very excited to see what our students are interested in this winter and from April Avenue. I have nothing to applaud.
TEXT> Any questions for the student rep?
NEXT> Michael Petrin: Oh, I went to the the event last night with Craig Scott. To me, I went into.

[10558-58] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: So on. So that's a good time.
TEXT> So I like I I'll come back to that. Principal. Barry couldn't be here tonight. It was her birthday. She sends her apologies. She's going out. We excused her, but she's going to be here in spirit. This is a clip. So, as people mentioned last night, Craig Scott, I had the opportunity to work with Craig Scott. I think at 12 years ago when I was a principal of Massachusetts, he presented to our area Principals group. You know, a similar message in Rachel's challenge that really caught on. And I'm so excited that the kids grasped on to that so much. And I was I saw both presentations in the morning, and they're really excited and really moved by the message. And it's, it's really a system of personal ethics and a perseverance. And that's his message of joy in getting through tragedy. And then that was the message that you heard in the clips before. Two, that everyone has baggage in their lives, but it's more how you move beyond that. And it's going to be a great program and we will have him back. He's already committed to that, that he's going to video conference in the in the spring with the group as we get that off the ground. And then we've also already started preliminary talking for next year to do it a little bit more thoroughly. And he did a staff training as well. So so.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: It wasn't all somber. He was a he's a pretty dynamic presenter and speaker.

[10558-63] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Craig Scott: Out with me there.
TEXT> And he also, as you think he spoke to our kids after each presentation in the day and in the evening. He, last night he spoke to all the adults in the room.  And it was it was really a moving experience. People were immediately sharing their stories and situations with them. He's really talented presenter and we will have him back.
NEXT> Unidentified: So.

[10558-75] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-02
PREV> Michael Tempesta: professional development classes, class visitations and observations, and supporting what teachers need in their classrooms in the work. That's to help the teachers and the students. Curriculum alignment and assessment, review of the competency based standards and the grading process and the linkage for that.
TEXT> I know we've talked about that as a committee, and that's also we have a whole committee for that, that we'd love to have board members and people at home help us with those things and hear that feedback in a formal way. The Stem and the arts initiatives, and also the review of staffing and program offerings per grade level, what we offer at each level, how often, how much time we put in at each grade level, in each subject matter, and how that translates through the whole run of a student's career in the in the schools expansion of alternative programing within the Claremont district. In the review of building schedules to maximize student access to all curriculum offerings. The third, but certainly not least, and also very much linked to the work that's been going on in the past couple of years that we spoke about at at Stevens in particular, but also at every school in the elementaries. And, is a review of social emotional learning and curriculum and push in and support services, basically attending to students needs and teaching them as, as they come to us as learners, understanding all of all of trauma informed and the types of things that our students have gone through so that they can really be ready to learn.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: So we're going to expand all of the trauma informed instruction, the professional development, as we spoke to, and the consistency among the student assistant teams at each grade level

[10558-107] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Heather Whitney: Surname the AP exam. How is the cost of the exam is going to be handled.
TEXT> So financial aid is available for students number one. Number two if you are on free and reduced lunch I think there is a reduced price. I don't quote me, but it's about $3 for the exam. It's it's minimal. And  so but you know, we have money in the budget to take care of any particular issues. If those students need to need help with that, we can we can arrange that.
NEXT> Unidentified: Go ahead. If you want to go ahead.

[10558-135] Mr. Morris | Stevens High School administrator presenting program of studies in pla | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: So okay.
TEXT> This will be here and available. And you know, we can make updates to it as necessary. You know, like when we had the encounter, the issue of the history class, I believe we put out to the counselors a packet with the available ninth grade courses to the students. At the time. I'm not sure if that trickled down to the parents or not, but you know, I know we put a packet out there, but this moving forward, we'd like this to be the program of studies and then come back and make changes as they come about.
NEXT> Unidentified: Awesome.

[10558-146] Gary | Stevens High School teacher, German exchange program coordinator (surn | 2019-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: two Gary's waiting in the wings, so we'll go with Gary. Does anybody have any objection to Gary? Call us and going because we're behind schedule. So I hate to keep staff here waiting all night. Sorry. Thank you. Gary. Thank you for being patient.
TEXT> Some of you know why I'm here. For those of you who don't. Our school has had a partnership with the German high school. We signed the agreement in 2001. We had our first exchange in 2003, and we've had eight so far. They take place every two years involving a home stay with the German group in Claremont. In this year will be April, usually around their Easter vacation, and then  our students traveling to Germany, usually about a week or so after school, is out and staying anywhere from two and a half to three weeks. In Germany. The the hope is that,  you know, through this program, we can create some relationships, long lasting relationships between students on both sides of the ocean and open up our own students perspectives and broaden their horizons and do it in a way that is lasting and meaningful for them.  So I put together some some things for your packet. Unfortunately, I did not have the time to translate the German half of the calendar of activities, but you can get some general idea and I can translate anything you'd like. If you see something there that peaks your interest. The New Hampshire half is in English, and this is sort of a sample of the kinds of things that they do when the German students are visiting us.
NEXT> Gary: We try and give them a feel for what Claremont is like as well as the region. Many of them have never, of course, seen The Atlantic before. So we

[10558-147] Gary | Stevens High School teacher, German exchange program coordinator (surn | 2019-10-02
PREV> Gary: and I can translate anything you'd like. If you see something there that peaks your interest. The New Hampshire half is in English, and this is sort of a sample of the kinds of things that they do when the German students are visiting us.
TEXT> We try and give them a feel for what Claremont is like as well as the region. Many of them have never, of course, seen The Atlantic before. So we go and freeze to death at York Beach. Usually at some point we see Boston, Portsmouth.  We go to Fort at number four. We, Whalen has been gracious about giving us tours. We added North Country Smokehouse there. I think the man who's in charge of the production there is German,  and was really excited to find out that there was a group of of students from his homeland coming to visit. So he did a really good job welcoming them  to tour North Country last time. So we try and, you know, show them some things that are unique to our area, to New Hampshire and New England, and then they reciprocate when we go to Germany. We, we also try and reduce the costs as much as possible by making it home stay on both ends. So our students do not have any room and board expenses when they are in Germany. The main thing that we have to cover is the the plane ticket and spending money. And if they don't have a passport then they have to obtain a passport as well. So I think those are the main things, but I'm happy to answer any questions that you have  if you have any. Yes, ma'am.
NEXT> Rebecca Zullo: I just want to tell you I love this. I went to Germany in. High school and it's such an amazing experience, so I would always be a 100% advocate

[10558-160] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Gary: And yes, you have.
TEXT> Working at the school when the kids were there. And,  I'm always impressed at, the, the level of English that these, these students bring. I remember one year I think it might have been 2010. They just barely made it back to Germany before the volcano erupted in Iceland. Yeah, it suspended traffic. I think they made it by less than a day.
NEXT> Unidentified: Yeah.

[10558-169] Gary Merchant | NH State Representative, Claremont Ward 2 (introduced by the chair) | 2019-10-02
PREV> Frank Sprague: to get some help. And I've looked over the documents a number of times and, it's it's hard to parse it all out. So if you, if Gary merchants approaching the microphone. Representative Ward two, if you could give us a hand in some way.
TEXT> Chairman, maybe for the over the course of all right. Career. My time with our family, we hosted ten exchange students. And I'll tell you, every single one of them has been a pleasure to host. We still remain in contact with most of them. We actually went to Romania recently to catch up with one who's now 35 years old, married and has two children. So it's an opportunity for all the children at that time in their life. It's just informative and leave such and impression in regards to Medicaid. Shifting gears, I don't have a complete answer. I will say this it's national in scope.  It's not New Hampshire specifically. What it really comes down to is that if you look at Medicaid, which is part of CMS, there's a requirement that the services provided by Medicaid are authorized by a health care provider, which is like a physician, a nurse practitioner, a PA. It's not so much by the site of care, it's by who authorizes the care. So in the past, there was some flexibility in there, which the state did through the Department of Education, to allow for people who weren't Pas nurse practitioners or physicians to authorize the service. Unfortunately, according to CMS, at the national level, that's not sufficient for them to qualify to meet the obligation of the requirements for the service.
NEXT> Gary Merchant: So the governor is now trying to work through things nationally, along with other state governors, to try to find out there's any flexibility in there. Right now, we don't

[10558-191] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yes, yes.
TEXT> So if we if we're not providing the services, then we don't need the reimbursement for it. So if the if it's if it's requires medical people, then cut the school out of the equation and just push the whole thing into the medical field in. One of the reasons to support this in my mind, is the whole purpose of these of these interventions is access to the curriculum. What else could it be? And so these kids can can function in the school.  So the current model is we pull them out of their academics to deliver those services so that they miss parts of their school day to receive those services. So if we take if all of these services take place outside of the school, then they really, truly do have full access to the curriculum not being denied. So I don't know if we can even begin to have that conversation. And I'm sure that, my colleagues that are that are OT, OT people and medical people can give me a million reasons why that wouldn't work. But in my simple world, if it's a medical issue, let the medical people deal with it.
NEXT> Michael Petrin: You're not going to get the same level of service. Not even close.

[10558-291] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Unidentified: Yeah. Yeah okay.
TEXT> If if that becomes problematic let us know and we'll  move it out. But so we've got other agenda items that will probably try to get more specificity on when we're going to be doing them. One of the things that went through my mind when we're we're looking at the program of studies tonight, was the alternative programing at that level. And, a concern to me was this year with the size of the graduating class  and was and again, talking to some of our seniors who were graduating, I'm not sure that these groups have had the options to regain credit and go get through, as other groups have had when we had, ombudsman in the owls program. So I know that there were issues with that program. But again, I might concern was was with the size of the class, someone had said that the class started at 130 or something and wound up graduating 80 something. So I'm wondering what happened to those other 50 kids that were in that class, and how many of those kids would have graduated if we had a  an owl saw an ombudsman. So I want to,
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: Is that just graduation or moving? Transferring. That's all encompassing, right? Over the four years?

[10558-302] Frank Sprague | Claremont School Board Chair | 2019-10-02
PREV> Rebecca Zullo: Ago, several like two years ago.
TEXT> When I, I, when we  brought in ombudsman, I actually wrote the grant for that program.  And, one of the reasons that  that,  and I went around and looked at went down to Rochester and I went to Littleton and and toured a number of alternative programs  and interviewed kids as to why they were not successful in school and why they were being successful were formerly they had not been. And overwhelmingly it was school phobia.  It was not. Wasn't their ability, lack of ability. It wasn't that they, couldn't do the work. They just couldn't handle the school environment. And so, if we don't have anything for those kids that are in that category, then we're going to graduate. We're going to lose 30 or 40 kids a year. So I want to see what we can do, what we're doing around that. And I know that  that's been your your specialty, really, Mr. Tempesta, is that type of thing. So I'd like to get that on the agenda at some point. What are we going to do for those kids to get get left behind? So, anything else for grading system? There's a committee on that. School safety looks like a committee. Health policies. And Ben's coming next week. The the retreat is going to be the 20th. And that starts at 10:00. Has the room been reserved at the tech center has. Great. Thank you for doing that.
NEXT> Heather Whitney: And you should have all received. An invite.

[10577-10] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: Okay.
TEXT> Worry about this. So, the Friends of Rachel group at Stevens High School traded as a result of credits starts. Visit is involved in a number of in in initiatives including high five hallways every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Hands along the wall as outward in an Instagram Compliments page, which is highlighted for the student of the week this week, is that Snyder and for the teacher of the week is Senora miller, who is the Spanish teacher. Yesterday, 13 students went to the care conference put on by Kearsarge High School  at Colby Sawyer College, as well as South Hedren High School to hear from fellow students about their community service initiatives. Students shared their ideas and views with the ideas to start their own student organization in their own schools.  To go with that.  So yesterday we attended with Principal Berry and Superintendent  Tempesta. I was their first care conference.  We had schools from TSR to Newport to sell John Stout to Stevens. Franklin to Hillsborough and Winter Storm High School, and I'm pretty sure I missed a couple.  At this conference, student started to interact with other students from the from these other schools to come up with ideas for answers to the questions of the day.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: I did share with everybody the agenda of the day that has all the T questions. The main question of the day was taken in a community of diverse people

[10577-12] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-16
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: It's. Well, if a student gets a hall passed as they were or a detention past as they were out in the hallway, they didn't challenge it and bring it to a group of students who also led the to be in the student, Joey.
TEXT> 11  students went on the Women and Engineering Fair trip to the River Valley Technical Center in Springfield, Vermont. This was the spirit and opportunity for these young women. Yesterday, the students from downtown came to work with our seed.  Students for two hours as part of the four year Co Hall initiative. These students will be made and quarterly throughout the year, as well as in the summer, to propel our students for college. SATs took place for approximately 40 students today, as well as the city's approximately 30 students attended the college fell at Teen State College on Thursday, September 26th, and were able to tour the campus and learn about the many programs available. Last night, the boys varsity soccer team triumph over five mountain to win the Barnard Cup and bragging rights for the coming year. For  Claremont Middle School. On October 9th, Claremont Middle School will host the Out There to sponsor the this year from 8 to 3 p.m., rain or shine, in the cafeteria. They are hoping people will turn out to support this year's eighth grade class. The PBL project at the middle school is off of the hitch. The students are so engaged during that time for doesn't have elementary school.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: The fall Festival math night that is in place of the usual, spooky story night took place, last night from 7 p.m.. Mabel will host their and their PTO movie

[10577-13] Tyler Sullivan | Student representative to the school board, Stevens High School | 2019-10-16
PREV> Tyler Sullivan: rain or shine, in the cafeteria. They are hoping people will turn out to support this year's eighth grade class. The PBL project at the middle school is off of the hitch. The students are so engaged during that time for doesn't have elementary school.
TEXT> The fall Festival math night that is in place of the usual,  spooky story night took place,  last night from 7 p.m.. Mabel will host their and their PTO movie night in the gym from 7 to 8 p.m. on Friday, the 18th of October. On October 31st, Maple Leaf will host their annual Halloween parade from 130 2:30 p.m., where students and staff dressed up and walked to NFR, then back to the school. Families of the students come out to support for should have a Valley Regional Center. The test center  is written on a plaque for the band Foundation. Recognition. Students in carpentry, construction and plumbing and HVAC at the end of September attended the Construction Days event as blowing careers in those trades. Carbon day  students are repairing and we finishing power benches for the city and building a wheelchair accessible pathway at the preschool. Culinary competed in the Chamber of Commerce of Claremont's chili kickoff.  Although they didn't win, the students had a good time making their meals. CTE region ten meeting is for October 23rd at the Tet Center from 5 to 7. All are invited to hear about what the Claremont and Newport Tet Centers are currently doing in planning for in the future.
NEXT> Tyler Sullivan: Tatsuno is on the school board agenda for the upcoming November meeting to present to the board, and I would like to end tonight's report by wishing Principal Barry speedy

[10577-21] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary student, outdoor education presentation | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: do? He went out exploring. He escaped. Right. He just kept from his home. And we kind of escaped the classroom like Pip, right? Yeah. Yeah. So we got for outdoor ed, right? We escaped. Just like our reading Wonder's program tells us to. Look.
TEXT> Look at our learning space, which we have created at our school. Yesterday we learned about why leaves change colors and experience big world words like chlorophyl and photosynthesis, and how the sun helps make food for trees. We made fall wreaths to bring home and share  our learning. We went  on a. Nature scavenger. Hunt and then we used our materials to play  I-Spy and. Memory. Let's play that now. All right, so tell us how we're going to play this game. So we are. Going to look at the objects. And  then there's going to be. So one's going to be taken away and sometimes none. And you're trying to figure out which one goes away. All right. I'm ready to box outside. Sorry. We had the children when they were outside. They went and gathered whatever fascinated them the most, and we kept sending them back. Find something that was bumpy, find something that was green. Find something that was red.  So we just have a hodgepodge right now, and they all chose one. Ready. And they get a couple minutes to look at it. Look at it with your binoculars. Focus right in on it. You want to play at home? Hold on a second. All right. There you go.
NEXT> Unidentified: Nice binoculars. Thank you. Thank you. And we have classes of 15, so there will be 15 objects on the tray. And then they shut their eyes. Shut their eyes

[10577-22] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary first-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (nam | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: hodgepodge right now, and they all chose one. Ready. And they get a couple minutes to look at it. Look at it with your binoculars. Focus right in on it. You want to play at home? Hold on a second. All right. There you go.
TEXT> Nice binoculars. Thank you. Thank you. And we have classes of 15, so there will be 15 objects on the tray. And then they shut their eyes. Shut their eyes don't look. Yeah. We make them turn around so that they really don't look. Remove one. Hide it. Open your eyes. And what is missing? What's missing? What is it? The acorn right there. What was it? The pine cone. Is it the pine cone? Yep. It is. So then we would trash this over our shoulders, and we'd have them set off to find something else that was in our sensory for the scavenger hunt. With 15 items on the tray, you would get multiples of, let's just say acorns. And the kids got really good at counting. You would see them count how many were there so they could try to remember. So the strategies they were developing to try to remember what was there and was not there. And then using their language skills and knowing that this is well, once was a pine cone and that type of situation, they had a lot of fun with this game. The second one we played was what's in the mystery? And you can just pass that around and see if you can guess what's in it.
NEXT> Unidentified: Go out and stick your hand and it won't bite. But it was the same thing. It was what do you hear? Their shaking it. They're touching it and trying

[10577-31] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary fourth-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (na | 2019-10-16
PREV> Unidentified: the outside. Did you know that bark hath paws? I wonder how bark is made. Hemlock belongs to the pine family. Pine family? It. It's an evergreen. Ten species are native to America, four species and Asia six species. Hemlock reaches 35 to 197ft tall.
TEXT> And so we have, nature journals that the kids collect things  and,  draw what they, what they see, and they write about the things that they see. All right. This is Lucas Teboe. We also have  science bags that we have the kids take out with microscopes and or like, little hand lenses and things to collect things in. One day we went apple picking. We we them. We multiplied fractions for our ingredients. The apple crisp was very good. So we went to an apple orchard. We picked apples. We came back and we made things with it. We also made applesauce. And the kids all enjoy that. And you know, learned learned a fifth grade skill which is not in their grade level. This is our outdoor classroom we made. We had morning meeting here. Miss Seminoles husband made it this morning here. We talked about migration and hunting. I found a pine cone outside. Did you know that? No. Pine cones. Seeds only fall off when exposed when in heat. The state tree of Maine is white pine. Pine cones fall off of pine tree. Pine cones can be any size. Pine cones can blend in when it when it's spring. Pine cones have many seats. Bank owns are covered in pine pitch wood attaches seeds to the pine cone. And that's all we had. Did you have any questions? Yeah. Go ahead.
NEXT> Jason Benware: I'm just happy to see you guys are getting out and really letting these guys experience nature and, science in general. I think that we need more of that, and

[10577-33] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary fourth-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (na | 2019-10-16
PREV> Jason Benware: I'm just happy to see you guys are getting out and really letting these guys experience nature and, science in general. I think that we need more of that, and so on. I'm very pleased to see you're doing it.
TEXT> Yeah, I was just reading an article and it had a really poignant line. And I thought of you guys, kids need to spend more time outdoors rather than sitting in a chair, because they have a lot of time to sit in a chair. Like you guys are all doing tonight. So.. And, and half the time, even though a couple of my kiddos were like, oh yes, I like the swings too. They see their outdoor education as a playground, and they see it as a place where we're still teaching them, and they have no idea that we're integrating it into the curriculum. They just think it's a second reset, which is bonus points for us because the enthusiasm is through the roof. Well thank you, thank you. Did a great job. Yeah. Oh, sorry. Yeah.  Forget about it. Sorry.
NEXT> Dale Chenette: It's just a short slide show that will show some of our not only these classes, but some of the other classes of things that they have gone out and

[10577-35] Unidentified | Bluff Elementary first-grade teacher, outdoor education presenter (nam | 2019-10-16
PREV> Dale Chenette: It's just a short slide show that will show some of our not only these classes, but some of the other classes of things that they have gone out and done.
TEXT> And while he's chewing that up,  it's not a bunny rabbit. Not funny rabbit. Anybody else for? There was a point the kids wanted to put good one. The first one put in dead bugs. So  you're welcome.
NEXT> Dale Chenette: I think that's the the loop through. So again, I want to I just want to thank the board for allowing us to do this. I know the students are

[10577-56] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Frank Sprague: Opposed? Okay. Moving along. Superintendents. Report. My. My first item.
TEXT> That I have, as you can see from the report, and I  is following up on the student  representatives report. On Tyler's report, I had the opportunity to participate and and observe and actively participate with Principal Barry in the care conference. That was at Colby Sawyer yesterday. It really wasn't a  impressive  event. Student leaders from So-hyun High School started this, I believe, about ten years ago. They have an ethics forum and they have branched out most recently to cure Sarge. They they put this conference together with a group of care, sarge students that they just met in the spring, and it was really the emphasis of it. Is  student, student ethics and student. Governance in in the operations of of schools and of school districts. So that was a Colby Sawyer professor who who  gave a really,  a motivating, speech to students about  being active citizens and involved in civics. This is our group registering with with Principal Barry. And there's Tyler with the with the shirt. He he he wanted people to know that he did wash that in between. Okay.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: As well, even though it was just yesterday. He was just teasing him a little bit. So they, they, and these are the types of forums that the in conversations

[10577-57] Michael Tempesta | Superintendent, SAU 6 | 2019-10-16
PREV> Michael Tempesta: a motivating, speech to students about being active citizens and involved in civics. This is our group registering with with Principal Barry. And there's Tyler with the with the shirt. He he he wanted people to know that he did wash that in between. Okay.
TEXT> As well, even though it was just yesterday. He was just teasing him a little bit. So they, they, and  these are the types of forums that the in conversations that students had throughout the whole day. This is a group of this my bald spot right there. Okay. A little and a couple other superintendents and 5 or 6 other principals all talking about how to empower students to be active participants in the governance of the school as well as other types of, of programs. And it really was a worthwhile effort. And they have a, hype conference. It's called in.  The acronym is for Hosting Young Philosophical Enthusiasts. They created it, the students did that, and they have a bunch of community based fundraisers and really entrenched  program. They host these and this is a couple of the other tidbits for it. And I know we're a little bit pressed for time. They host these events each year.  They have approximately 1000 students. These are sponsored. And those are at in Durham. Okay. At University of New Hampshire. There are at least five other colleges practicing in this. And what is great for this, particularly for our kids who who want to come back and present, they couldn't get it. Everything ready that we just went yesterday.
NEXT> Michael Tempesta: But they like to come back and present to this and some of the other events that they're doing with the friends of Rachel and a few other things. So

